We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 69 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
Gators preparing for stud 
Alabama running back
Derrick Henry is the frontrunner for 
the Heisman Trophy, pg. 17
Holiday Roundup
Get into the jolly season in Gainesville, pg. 3
Don’t miss this week’s Avenue
It’s the last of the semester — get one more dose of mediocre advice, pg. 9-13Touring for traditions
Students document traditions for their F Books — check out the story and its photos, pg. 8
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
It was like a circus under the tent 
on the Reitz Union North Lawn — 
with games, an alligator and a Fuchs.
UF’s 16 colleges were brought 
together under one tent during the 
Campus Showcase on Wednesday 
from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. It will con-tinue today at the same time as part of UF President Kent Fuchs’ Inaugu-ration Week celebrations.
There were 25 booths in total, 
which included Student Affairs, Ath-letics, Ofﬁ  ce of Research, UF Cultur-al Plaza and UF Health.
The showcase was meant to do 
as its name suggests: showcase what all the colleges do.
“Our school is so large, so we 
don’t get together and meet,” said Nicole Yucht, a Campus Showcase co-chair.
As President Fuchs strolled 
through the tent, he stopped at 
booths to talk to students and pose 
for photos. He said he enjoyed cel-ebrating UF’s colleges and projects.
“We have one of the most com-
prehensive communities in the country,” he said. “We have it all.”
Michael Blachly, chairman of the 
week’s events and former director of UF Performing Arts, said life under 
the tent was like an academic kid’s 
candy store: Students learned about everything from the Warrington Col-lege of Business to the College of Health and Human Performance.
“(UF is) a great institution that 
touches so many lives,” Blachly said. 
Students were given a paper 
“passport” to encourage them to travel around the booths. They re-ceived a stamp at each spot and earning 15 made them eligible to enter a rafﬂ  e for an orange tote bag with “Florida” printed on it.
Students like Rodel Enderez 
hopped from booth to booth holding a slice of free pizza. The chemical engineering sophomore saw the tent as he was walking on campus.
He had just stopped by the Col-
lege of Medicine’s table, where he learned how to perform an ultra-
sound on a training dummy.
“A lot of great things happen at 
this university,” Enderez, 20, said. “It’s great to be a part of it.”
Some students tried on virtual 
goggles from the College of Engi-
neering. Others stroked a live alliga-tor held by a Florida Fish and Wild-life biological scientist, who was brought by the Florida Museum of Natural History.
A Lego sculpture grew next to 
the College of Arts’ table. Students 
walking by were encouraged to write 
something they hope to see in UF’s future.
Tiana Alderson, a second year 
Master’s of Fine Arts candidate in lighting design, wrote, “To be a STEAM school” on a yellow block. She said she thinks UF is more fo-cused on Science, Technology, En-gineering and Mathematics (STEM), and that the arts — the “A” in STEAM — should be better funded.
“It’s hard to quantify what art 
gives back,” the 27-year-old said. 
 Under the tent: Inauguration Week continues
EPILOGUE
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
To his clients, he was Dr. C.
To his students, he was simply Richard.Dr. Richard Christensen, a UF psychiatry 
professor, was known for his compassion and ability to put others before himself. This held true this Thanksgiving when he spent the holiday volunteering for Habitat for Hu-manity.  While on the Habitat for Humanity build, 
the 59-year-old was killed after a car struck him on Nov. 26 in Zambia.
For the past 15 years, Christensen was 
the director of behavioral health services at the Sulzbacher Center in Jacksonville. The center provides health, housing and income services for homeless people. It serves about 360 people a day.
Cindy Funkhouser, president and CEO 
of the Sulzbacher Center, said Christensen calmed people when he stepped into a room. Whenever a situation with those in the shelter got out of control, he was called.
“He was a one-of-a-kind 
person,” she said. “There will never be anyone like him.”
She said she ﬁ  rst met 
Christensen while riding 
in the center’s mobile Hope Van, which he used to ride on twice a week to beaches and highway overpasses to bring the clinic to Jacksonville’s homeless population.
When Christensen stopped the van, he 
sat down on the sidewalk next to people and just talked to them, she said.
“To see him down on the ground, I will 
never forget it,” she said in between sobs. “It made me cry then, and it makes me cry now.”
Dr. Robert Averbuch, a UF Health psychi-
atrist, met Christensen in the late 1990s as a third-year medical student at UF.
Gainesville remembers UF professor, beloved philanthropist
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4Fuchs experiences all UF’s colleges
Rob Cuskley, a 28-year-old biological scientist, introduc-es a baby American alligator to Albert during the Campus Showcase for Inauguration Week on Wednesday. The Florida Museum of Natural History encouraged Cuskley to bring the alligator to edu-cate students.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Christensen
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators anniversary 
celebration 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club will host a 10th 
Anniversary Celebration and Reunion on Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Uptown 
Village at Townsend club-
house, 3780 NW 24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters members and officers throughout the area 
and past and present Talking 
Gators club members and of-ficers. RSVP by calling 352-283-3919 so we can plan for 
refreshments. 
For more information about the club, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Winter Luau-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the 
Reitz Union. The event will 
feature a Gingerbread Tiki Hut contest, limbo with prizes and live music from Cas Haley. The event will also feature two 
showings of the movie “Maze 
Runner: The Scorch Trials” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
The night will end with free 
nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must 
be current students to partici-
pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Sounds of the Season: An 
American HolidayUF’s College of the Arts and the School of Music are 
pleased to present their an-
nual holiday concert, “Sounds of the Season: An American Holiday,” conducted by 
Will Kesling. “Sounds of the 
Season” will feature more than 250 performers. Come and en-joy an array of holiday favor-ites. 
The centerpiece of the con-
cert, “Red Telephone,” is a short musical play created by Phillip Grow that tells the 
story of the origin of the North 
American Aerospace Defense Command's Tracks Santa program, which has been fol-lowing Santa’s progress from 
the North Pole to children all over the globe since the 1950s. 
Another highlight of this year’s 
concert will be the narration of 
Longfellow’s “Christmas Bells” by UF President Kent Fuchs.Tickets are free and will be dis-tributed at the door beginning 
at 5 p.m. Sunday. 
For more information, con-tact the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Box Office at 
352-392-2787, or visit perform-
ingarts.ufl.edu.
FSDC Winter Formal
This Friday the Florida Swing 
Dancing Club invites you to 
our annual Winter Formal dance. The dance will be lo-cated at the Unified Training 
Center at 809 W. University 
Ave. with lessons starting at 8 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to midnight. There will be games, food, drinks and all the 
lovely people you can dance 
with, all for the low price of $5. It’s time to take out your fancy dance shoes and outfits 
and join us for all this swin-
gin’ fun. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find us on Facebook. 
We hope to dance with you all 
soon! For more information, visit facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
UF PRSSA & FPRA Holiday 
Student SocialJoin the UF chapter of the Public Relations Student 
Society of America and UF’s 
Florida Public Relations Association for an evening of networking and connecting 
with local public relations pro-
fessionals on Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. at AHA! The Innovation CoLab in Weimer Hall. 
There will be holiday-themed 
desserts and chances to win prizes. Contact Patricia Krogh at pakrogh@havenhospice.
org, or call 623-628-9148 for 
more information.
Comedy Show
Celebrate the end of the se-
mester with a comedy show! 
“Just Kidding: A Live + Online Sketch Comedy Show” will be showing at the Hippodrome 
State Theatre on Dec. 11 and 
Dec. 12 at 11 p.m. The show will feature an hour of live sketches. Tickets are limited; get yours at justkid-dingcomedy.com.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Merry Mug MakingReitz Union Board Entertainment is hosting Merry 
Mug Making tonight from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. Students can paint mugs and 
Christmas ornaments for free. 
Hot cocoa, cookies and tea will be provided as well.
Home Craft Show
Featuring works of art from local artisans, many qual-ity handmade items, original paintings, tatted and beaded 
jewelry, crocheted critters, 
paper art and more. Find that special holiday gift. Come out to 2915 NW 55th Blvd. on Dec. 12 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
We’ll be there rain or shine. 
For more information, email craftyqueen12@cox.net.
A Walk Through UF History
University Archivist Peggy McBride and University Historian Carl Van Ness will lead a walking tour of the cam-
pus historic district and will 
explain the history behind the buildings. The tour will end in Smathers 
Library where university arti-
facts will be on display. Meet under the colonnade in front of Library West at 2 p.m. Thursday.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 69
HIGH  70° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
HOLIDAY ROUNDUP
As ﬁ  nals draw near, students can take a break from studying 
to make holiday crafts, taste free wine and watch live musical 
performances.  Here’s what’s happening before exam week:
BRIGHT AND BUBBLY
On Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., Lucky’s Market is hosting Bubblyfest: A Holiday Tasting 
Fair. Attendees can taste free bubbly wine and samples of in-house holiday specials like holiday 
ham, said Malia Billman, the marketing manager at Lucky’s Market. Local musician Ricky Kendall 
will perform at the event.
- Rachel Howard
BRR-LESQUE
The Market Street Revue will perform a holiday edition of its monthly show to an 18-years-and-
older crowd Dec. 12 at 8 p.m. Performers from near and far will dance, drag and strip at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret. Mark Dixon, who goes by RamCat Jackson onstage, will host the event 
dressed like the Grinch and tell “terrible jokes.” Tickets are $10 for general admission and $12 for 
a guaranteed seat.
- Martin Vassolo
FUCHS AND THE SOUND
More than 300 performers, including students from UF’s Concert Choir, UF Women’s Chorale 
and UF Symphony Orchestra will harmonize holiday classics for the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts crowd Dec. 6, as part of the annual “Sounds of the Season” show. UF President Kent Fuchs, 
capping off his inauguration week, will also take the stage to narrate Longfellow’s “Christmas 
Bells.” Tickets are free.
- Martin Vassolo
MY BROTHER’S KEEPER
Children will play Christmas carols to help end children’s cancer at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts on Dec. 13 at 4 p.m. Alachua County Youth Orchestra will perform as part of its annual winter concert, presented by Stop Children’s Cancer. A second, different show will begin at 
7:30 p.m. Tickets to the ﬁ  rst show will cost $12 for general admission and $6 for children 12 years 
old and younger. The second show is free.
- Martin Vassolo
Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffIT WILL HAVE ELECTRONIC 
MEDICAL RECORDS AND A 
TRAUMA ROOM.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
A new $12 million UF Health Shands 
Emergency Center will be built near the in-
tersection of Southwest Archer Road and 
Tower Road, likely by the summer of 2016.
Representatives from UF Health and 
Alachua County Fire Rescue Services broke 
ground Wednesday afternoon on a nearly 
10,900-square-foot plot of land where the 
Kanapaha E.R. Center will be built. The facility will be located at 7405 SW Archer Road, said Dr. Joseph Tyndall, the chair-man of emergency medicine and the chief 
of emergency services at UF Health.
The facility will receive patients trans-
ported by the fire department and serve as 
one of two free-standing UF Health E.R. 
Centers in Gainesville, Tyndall said. The 
other emergency center is located in Spring Hill near Santa Fe College.
Tyndall said the current emergency 
room at UF Health Shands has become too full to adequately service the Gainesville community.
“There has been increasing demand for 
emergency care,” he said.
The facility will feature full electronic 
medical records, up-to-date emergency equipment, 10 examination rooms and a trauma room, Tyndall said.
The UF Health Shands Vice President of 
Facilities Brad Pollitt said people demand emergency care close to home, which is why UF Health began to draw up plans a little over a year ago for the Kanapaha E.R. 
Center to be built.   
“I think we’ve done a lot to help make 
Alachua County one of the safest places 
(and) safest communities around,” he said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
STICK IT TO STRESS
T aisha Saintil (left), an 18-year-old UF political science freshman, and Monica Louis-Jeune, a 17-year-
old criminology freshman inspect their stress sticks at the GatorWell stress management table on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. The sticks, which  were handed out for free, can be molded into different shapes and work to relieve stress. “We are in a school that cares about mental health well-being, ” Saintil said.
Christensen wasn’t like the oth-
er professors, Averbuch said. Rich-ard, as he would insist his students call him, had a clever wit.
One day in class, Averbuch said 
he was learning about Florida’s Baker Act, a Florida statute that al-lows people to be involuntarily in-stitutionalized for up to three days if they thought to be a threat to those around them.
“‘Dr. Christensen, can you Bak-er Act your friends?’” Averbuch said he asked.
“Maybe your friends, Rob,” 
Christensen had responded jok-ingly.
Averbuch said when he heard 
of Christensen’s death, he was 
stunned and cried. He had been 
covering for him at the Sulzbacher 
Center while Christensen was in 
Zambia.
“Even on vacation, he was do-
ing good,” he said. “It still hasn’t 
really sunk in.”
He is survived by his wife, Kathy; his son, Chris; and his sis-
ter, Mary Anne.
According to Funkhouser, the 
Sulzbacher Center in Jacksonville will hold a memorial service at its campus today at 9 a.m. A visita-
tion will be held Sunday from 5 
p.m. to 7 p.m. at St. Paul’s Catholic 
Church in Jacksonville Beach, said 
Averbuch. 
Funeral services will be held 
Monday at 11 a.m. at the church, 
said Funkhouser.EPILOGUE,  from pg1Memorial service today in JacksonvilleUF Health to build new E.R. facility in Kanapaha
SANTA FE
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Shaida Ehlert didn’t think 
she had any useful skills.
She stayed at home and had 
dinner on the table every night 
for her husband while he made 
a good living as a vendor for a 
local company.
That was before he devel-
oped a disease called ulcerative colitis, rendering him unable to work steadily.
They could no longer rely on 
his income and would have to rely on hers.
In March, the day after her 
37th birthday, Ehlert applied to the Displaced Homemaker: Focus on the Future program at Santa Fe College. The program, which celebrated its 30th an-niversary Wednesday evening, focuses on educating and em-ploying women who have had a 
life event, such as a divorce or 
death, that changes their finan-cial situation, said JoAnn Wil-kes, the program coordinator.
“I know exactly how these 
women feel,” said Wilkes, who joined the program after her husband died. “I took the class, and it helped me get at least 
grounded so I was focused on 
what I needed to do.”
Two years later, she came 
back as an instructor. Every member of the staff is a program graduate, she said.
Classes, held once a month 
except during March and De-cember, teach life management 
skills, such as empowerment, 
confidence and communication skills.Participants also learn com-
puter and employability skills because the technology gap is one of the biggest challenges, she said. Since job applications are mostly online, many women struggle with typing up a re-
sume and cover letter to email 
or upload to a website.
Since joining the program, 
Ehlert has become certified in medical coding, which identifies the abbreviations used by doc-tors, and is looking for employ-ment.
She was one of 50 women 
who danced, ate and honored guests during Wednesday’s event.
Seven staff members, includ-
ing Wilkes, dressed up as Rosie the Riveter and danced to “We Are Family” by Sister Sledge.
Ehlret attended the event in 
part because she volunteers at 
the program now.
She said Focus on the Future 
made all the difference for her, 
even though it was overwhelm-ing at first. It was a challenge to self-reflect and face the issues during the life management sec-tion of the program, she said.
Ehlert had resolved not to 
come back after the third day. But then she learned her friend in the program had to board a bus on Archer Road at 5 a.m. just to arrive at 8:30 a.m.
Instead of dropping out, she 
began driving her friend to the program with her.
“Before the program, I felt 
like I had nothing to offer,” she said. “But they helped me fill my resume with skills I didn’t realize I had.”30 years of women 
helping women“I think we’ve done a lot to help make 
Alachua County one of the safest places 
(and) safest communities around.”
Brad Pollitt
UF Health Shands Vice President of Facilities
UF Health Shands Emergency Center - Kanapaha, a 
10,881-square-foot emergency center to be constructed by the summer of 2016, will be located about 6 miles from the UF campus. It will be the second free-standing UF Health emergency centers in Gainesville.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
SOLO IN SILENCE
Sawyer Weaver, a 22-year-old UF linguistics ﬁ  fth-year student, meditates between 
classes on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. Although he had earphones in, Weaver didn’t listen to any music. He said he wore them so people wouldn’t bother him.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Jaewon Jang told students Wednesday 
night that he thinks women who are assertive 
are seen as “bitchy.”
The UF ﬁ  nance senior also said men who 
are assertive are seen as getting things done, 
and he doesn’t think that’s fair.
Along with seven other panelists, Jang 
shared his views on gender’s role in leader-
ship at the “Gender Across Leadership” panel, hosted by UF’s Savant Leadership Honorary. The panel members explained their opinions to an audience of about 50. The panelists, who were all UF students, started by discussing traditional gender roles. They said men usu-
ally hold leadership positions because men are 
thought to command attention while women are thought to merely observe.
Jang said women currently make up only 
4.4 percent of the CEOs of Fortune 500 com-panies.
“That number speaks volumes,” the 
21-year-old said.Panelist Maria Pitt, a 21-year-old UF graph-
ic design senior, said students should know leadership isn’t just inﬂ  uenced by gender. It is also affected by religion and race.
Panelist and Access Party President Kalyani 
Hawaldar, a UF biology and sociology senior, said while UF may seem like it’s progressive in 
terms of gender, it might only be on the sur-
face.
“We would be doing ourselves a disservice 
by saying we don’t have issues about gender and equality at the university,” the 21-year-old said.
Hawaldar said the panel should have also 
included transgender students.
“I think that we need people who identify 
(as trans) to be on this panel,” she said. “For us to be speaking on this issue is doing a dis-service.”
Ruth St. Fort, a UF microbiology senior, 
attended the panel and said its focus on the impact of gender was refreshing. She said she feels like she’s had to work harder in leader-ship roles because she’s a woman.
“I feel like I do have to prove myself,” the 
21-year-old said.  UF group discusses 
gender, leadership roles
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
A $1.4 million grant will help 
students transfer from Santa Fe 
College to UF more easily.
The grant, awarded by the Na-
tional Institutes of Health’s Na-tional Institute of General Medical Sciences, will establish the SF2UF 
Bridge to Baccalaureate Program to increase the amount of under-
represented students in the bio-medical and behavioral science-related ﬁ  elds who transfer to UF. The grant’s funds will be distrib-uted over the next ﬁ  ve years.
As part of the program, Santa 
Fe will establish a new science tutoring center and send 48 stu-dents over the next ﬁ  ve years 
to work as lab assistants at UF. 
Both colleges will work to make the science curriculums match as much as possible and help trans-fer students with the application process.
The goal, said David Julian, 
the UF associate professor of biol-
ogy who requested the grant, is 
to increase the number of under-represented transfer students in scientiﬁ  c research.
“Coming here to UF is a big 
transition,” he said.The underrepresented students 
are ethnic minorities, come from low-income backgrounds, have a disability or are ﬁ  rst-genera-
tion college students, said Beat-
riz Gonzalez, Santa Fe’s SF2UF Bridge Program director and a biology professor at Santa Fe. 
Gonzalez said these students gen-
erally struggle more than others when transferring to UF.
She said this program will 
open doors for transfer students.
“If we can demonstrate how we can implement this in a very rigorous academic environment, that can be replicated at other in-stitutions,” Gonzalez said.
The program is one of about 40 
other similar programs funded by the institute.
Naomi Edwin, a UF biochem-
istry and molecular biology soph-omore, said while UF is already diverse, there’s always room for more representation.
“I like seeing different cultures 
here,” the 20-year-old said.
Santa Fe College, UF to receive $1.4 million grant
It’s to help students transferThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Print is not dead — it’s making a comeback
If you are even remotely interested in a career 
path that involves the written word on paper — journalist, writer, librarian, editor, etc. — this has probably happened to you.
Chances are, at some point in your life, 
someone with well-meant intentions has looked at your hopeful face and said, somewhat conde-scendingly, “Well that’s very nice, but you do know the print industry is dying, right?”
Well, I am here today to say they are wrong! 
Perhaps.
The print industry has had serious pitfalls, there is no ar-
guing with that. Major bookstores have severely downsized or closed down, and adorable nook-and-cranny independent 
bookstores have become few and far between.
When the rise of e-books and the fall of the newspaper 
combined with a hefty recession, it seemed for a while that 
everything print was in ﬂ  ux. People lost their jobs, the indus-try suffered and anyone with a dream of going into publish-ing decided a backup career path was deﬁ  nitely required. This includes me.
I ﬁ  nd it sad that the written word has gone out of style. 
E-books are grand things, a great invention of convenience, 
but I will always prefer a paperback book, a sweet-smelling 
old volume or a signed copy of a raggedly loved book I swear I’ll keep until nothing but duct tape and hope will keep it to-gether. I’m not exactly a traditional person, and I’m certainly just as much technologically inclined as the next millennial college student, but nothing gives me quite as much satisfac-tion as adding another book to the swelling tower of titles by my bed.
But perhaps we are not lost. Perhaps people’s apprecia-
tion for a tangible thing to hold and read and spill coffee on will win over the shiny temptation of Kindle screens and “Read Now” buttons. According to a recent The New York Times article, which fought the good ﬁ  ght for defending the printed book industry, the “digital apocalypse” has so far been late in arriving and perhaps will never come. Praise!
While e-books were supposed to overtake all things print-
ed by 2015, their sales have instead fallen, according to the Association of American Publishers. While online subscription services struggle to entice people to the decadent table of e-book binging, many remain steadfastly against them. E-books have made little progress in gaining a bigger hold on 
the market.
All this says to me is perhaps the publishing 
industry will not be forced to abandon printed 
books. There’s always been a press for progress, and that is necessary. But major publishing books have other ways to make money and gain efﬁ  -
ciency, and they’ve found them. To battle the rising tide of electronic media, publishing houses offered faster deliveries to book sellers and developed new ways to re-stock and or-
ganize inventories.
Even better: Independent bookstores are making a come-
back! While there’s no denying many have closed their doors 
forever, others are only just starting to be established.
I was devastated when the tiny hole-in-the-wall bookstore 
and bar Broken Shelves of downtown Gainesville announced it would be closing, but contenders like Wild Iris Books and the Civic Media Center are still kicking. There is also a new bookstore opening soon in the newly renovated Wine and 
Cheese Gallery called Third House Books. The combination 
of books and booze is never a bad idea; I plan to be there as often as possible. Independent booksellers are slowly re-emerging in part because they offer something that big book-store chains and publishing houses will never have: specially curated selections, niche titles and a unique community feel. The feeling of walking into a bookshop, with dusty books tumbling from the shelves and a quiet peacefulness in the air, simply can’t be replicated by a Kindle.
While perhaps the rise of the e-book is simply on pause, 
it’s clear to me that the mere fact a new independent book-store is opening in Gainesville is indication of a small victory.
As much as it might be an uphill battle, as long as the 
written word and human creativity exists, I ﬁ  rmly believe people will continue to buy printed books for years to come.
Sally Grieder is a UF English and public relations junior. 
Her column usually appears on Wednesdays.Just the facts on 
guns in America
Following Wednesday’s shooting in San Bernardino, 
California, The Washington Post published a piece ag-gregating data collected in recent years regarding Amer-
ica’s ongoing gun crisis. Collected for your perusal, here 
is some of the data we found the most interesting, pre-
sented without comment.
As reported by several outlets besides the Post, there have 
been at least 352 mass shootings this year; today, Dec. 3, marks the 337th day of the year.
The piece cites a long-term study conducted by investiga-
tive magazine Mother Jones dedicated to analyzing American mass shootings — that is, large-scale gun murders seemingly 
independent of “terrorist ideology” or “criminal proﬁ  t” — 
from 1982 to 2015. Their data is up to date with the Umpqua Community College shooting in Oregon on Oct. 2. One of the more pertinent ﬁ  ndings from their study is between 1982 and 
2012, most guns used in mass shootings had been purchased 
legally.
According to a study by the FBI, as well as work done by 
The Washington Post, not only have active shooter incidents drastically increased in the last seven years, but of the 12 
deadliest mass shootings in our nation’s history, half have oc-
curred in that time period.
A study by Kieran Healy, a sociologist at Duke University, 
found that the American South is not only the most violent 
region in the U.S., but it is drastically more violent than other 
developed countries.
After analyzing global literature on the subject, the Harvard 
Injury Control Research Center concluded that where there are more guns in circulation, there are larger levels of homicide.
Perhaps most interesting of all, several surveys by the Pew 
Research Center have found that not only do contemporary mass shootings not drastically affect the American people’s feelings on gun control, but they have occasionally stoked an 
increase for the expansion of gun rights. The information pro-
vided says this was particularly true following the Newtown, Connecticut, shooting.
This is particularly fascinating because, as reported by 
The New York Times this past summer, nearly twice as many 
Americans have been killed by non-Muslim extremists than 
by radical Jihadists since 9/11. Even though the death toll is signiﬁ  cantly higher, the rush to enact legislation combating gun violence has been slow in comparison to that dedicated 
to ﬁ  ghting the threat of radical Islam: For evidence, refer to 
the speediness with which legislation was passed slowing the ﬂ  ow of Syrian refugees into the U.S. following the Paris at-tacks.
Besides considering the numbers and data surrounding gun 
violence itself, it is also worthwhile to look at the broader media treatment of mass shootings. The BBC, which is based out of a country that suffers incredibly low degrees of gun violence, generated headlines last night when its report on 
Wednesday’s attack began with the following: “Just another 
day in the United States of America — another day of gun-ﬁ  re, panic and fear. This time in the city of San Bernardino in California, where a civic building is apparently under attack.”
No editorializing, no rhetoric: just studies, hard numbers 
and factual reporting. Make of it what you will.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Our favorite thing to tell toddlers is how 
unique they are, that each and every one of them is a special snowﬂ  ake. Although they are each made of the same stuff, ice and air, their bodies, personalities and experiences are 
individualized. Then, for the lives of a good 
half of them, we ﬁ  nd ways to make them feel less so.
Take the lack of representation of women 
in ﬁ  lm, for example. In 2014, a study from the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Me-dia found only 31 percent of speaking roles in worldwide ﬁ  lms were occupied by named female characters. U.S. ﬁ  lms fell below that av-
erage with named female characters only grab-
bing 29.3 percent of speaking parts.
And what were these female characters 
able to say? Apparently, not much. Only 23.3 percent of global ﬁ  lms had a plot centered on a woman or girl.
But if the statistics aren’t tangible enough, 
there’s another way of ﬁ  nding out whether women on ﬁ  lm are represented compellingly: the Bechdel test.
Based on a comic strip written 
by cartoonist Alison Bechdel in the mid-1980s, the test has gained quite 
a bit of traction in the last decade. 
It’s composed of three questions: 1) Does a ﬁ  lm have at least two female characters? 2) Do they talk to one another? 3) Are the subjects of their conversations about anything other than men? Many U.S. ﬁ  lms wouldn’t make it past the second question.
So, why is this test important? 
Because movies can profoundly move you. 
For me, an example of such a ﬁ  lm is director 
Wes Anderson’s “The Darjeeling Limited.” It centers on three brothers travelling through In-dia who  reconnect a year after their father’s funeral. It’s a sharply witty and touching ode to brotherhood in the face of the unmanage-able loneliness that follows a parent’s death.Now, I don’t have any broth-
ers, nor have I ever experienced the death of a loved one. But I see my-self in this movie; I see my relation-ship with my best friend.
We’ve never ﬂ  ung belts at one 
another, pepper sprayed one an-other or released deadly snakes on one another. But, we’ve found that loved ones, especially those our own age, provide us an insurmount-
able strength against experiences that could have been once unbearable. Thus, through this work of ﬁ  ction, I ﬁ  nd myself.
So, if this ﬁ  ctional movie still resonates with 
me despite not resembling my personal, sur-face reality, does it matter if it resembles the lives of other viewers, many of whom include women? Does it matter if less than a third of ﬁ  lms pass the Bechdel test? Yes, it most cer-tainly does.
“The Darjeeling Limited” can solely be about the personal journey of three men, and there would be nothing wrong with it. But, at the very least, for every tale of brothers, there should be one story of sisters.
Life doesn’t come in one-size-ﬁ  ts-all. Be-
tween the universal facts of life are nuances as varied as the seven billion people who exist today, and the billions who have come before. Some of these nuances include race, class, sex-uality and gender. These factors, for better or for worse, create different outlooks and differ-ent ways of seeing oneself.
So if fully formed female characters are 
absent from a vast majority of ﬁ  lms, what 
will female viewers see? Not themselves. The 
Bechdel test challenges ﬁ  lms to allow women to take part in the process of storytelling and self-discovery, because to ignore the existence of women in ﬁ  lm is to ignore the existence of women in reality.
Neel Bapatla is a sophomore English major. 
His column appears on Thursdays.
What ignoring women in film really means for women in reality Column
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer
Reyna Bansil was nervous 
about climbing up Century Tower 
on Wednesday night.
She was one of about 30 stu-
dents who participated in the UF Tradition Keepers tour, where students completed 12 traditions, including climbing Century Tower and rubbing the Albert Murphree 
statue’s shoe for good luck. The 
tour gave seniors the opportunity 
to complete their F-Book traditions 
before they graduate, said Avery Smith, a tradition keeper co-chair.
Bansil, a UF advertising and economics senior, went on the tour with friends. But she said she was still worried about climbing the 
bell tower.
“I’m kind of scared because it’s 
192 stairs, and I’m not frequent in 
the gym,” the 22-year-old said and then laughed.
Afterward, Bansil said she wasn’t as out of breath as she thought she’d be. She looked out the window to see campus from a 
new perspective.
“We are so busy with life that 
we forget to enjoy moments like 
this,” Bansil said.
Nick Deering, a UF finance se-
nior, said keeping up with the tra-
ditions made him feel part of the 
university.
While the 21-year-old originally 
planned on working on his finan-cial class project Wednesday, he said a group of his friends decided to ditch the library for the tour.
“Studying at the library should 
be everyone’s favorite tradition,” he said jokingly.Touring for traditions 
“W e are so busy with life that 
we forget to enjoy moments 
like this.”
Reyna Bansil
SeniorStudents document traditions for F Book
ABOVE:
Jordan Walker (bottom right), a 20-year-old UF civil engineer-ing junior and Cicerone, took photos of seniors on the Senior Bucket List T our on Wednes-day. “I’m going to miss college and naps, ” said Whitney Madrid, second from left, a 22-year-old UF finance and information sys-tems senior.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
LEFT:
Sydney Folsom, left, 23, and So-phia Saportas, 24, both UF civil engineering seniors, pose with the Bull Gator statue outside Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Sa-portas said she’s very happy to finish her university years. “It’s about time, ” Folsom said.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffJohn Hursh / Alligator Staff
Griffin Plattner, a 22-year-old UF chemical engineering and busi-ness management senior, climbs onto the statue of Albert A. Mur-phree outside Criser Hall dur-ing the Senior Bucket List T our. “This has been, by far, one of my funnest semesters, ” said Plattner, who graduates this month.BELOW : 
UF seniors walk into Ben Hill Griffin Stadium to have their pictures taken by the field on Wednesday. About 30 students visited eight campus locations on the bucket list of UF traditions. “Graduating is bittersweet. I had a great time here, but every good thing comes to an end, ” said Nick Deering, a 21-year-old UF finance senior and one of the students at the stadium. 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffLEFT:
Adam Kelley, a UF mechani-cal and aerospace engineering sophomore, plays the carillon inside Century T ower for se-niors on the UF Tradition Keep-ers’ Senior Bucket List tour. The students climbed the 13-story tower, learned about its history and took photos of themselves and each other inside.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Gossip Girl”
See page 12 for all your binging needs.What’s inside: 
Last Mediocre Advice EVER, pg 10.This week’s mixtape roundup, pg 11.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
THE BAND PERFORMS FRIDAY 
WITH LOCAL 10-PIECE SOUL 
BAND THE SAVANTS OF SOUL 
OPENING THE SHOW.
By Aly Gill
Avenue Writer
When Sam Williams was in middle 
school, he joined the school band. He said 
he didn’t have a preference for what in-
strument he would play when his teacher, 
Daryl Dickerson, suggested the trombone.
“That’s where it all began,” Williams 
said. “He was the one that put it in my 
hands.”
At the age of 15, his mom bought him a 
Dirty Dozen Brass Band album called “Ears 
to the Wall.”
Williams, better known as Big Sam, said 
that album changed his life.
“I told myself I was going to play with 
that band,” he said, “or have my own group like it one day.”
He never looked back.At the age of 19, Big Sam went on to 
become a member of the Dirty Dozen Brass Band for four years, which allowed him to play with musicians such as Karl Densen 
and Dave Matthews. 
He is now the trombonist and a vocalist 
for his own band, Big Sam’s Funky Nation. 
Traveling from New Orleans, the band will 
perform Friday at High Dive, located at 210 
SW Second Ave. 
Tickets are being sold in advance at 
ticketﬂ  y.com for $10 and at the door for $12.
Glory Days Presents is the local live 
music and promotions company that orga-nizes events at High Dive. 
Owner Pat Lavery said High Dive has 
an extensive track record of bringing top-notch New Orleans talent to Gainesville. 
Some of the past performers include 
Preservation Hall Jazz Band, Rebirth Brass Band and Earphunk. Big Sam adds to that, 
he said.
The New Orleans trombonist referred to 
the band’s music style as “Noladelic.” 
He described it as a New Orleans mix-
ture of funk, rock, soul, R&B, hip-hop and 
jazz.
Lavery chose a local Gainesville band, 
The Savants of Soul, to open for Big Sam’s Funky Nation.
The Savants of Soul’s lead female vo-
calist Chelsea Oxendine and drummer Alex Klausner said they believe their 10-man soul band is a well-suited opener for Big 
Sam’s Funky Nation.
“We’ve got this big horn section,” 
Klausner said, “and I think there’s just go-
ing to be a lot of synergy between the two bands.”
Big Sam also said he thought the bands would complement each other.
“I’ve been hearing a lot about them 
since the show was booked, and I’ve checked them up online,” Big Sam said. “I can’t wait to hear them live.”
The Savants of Soul and Big Sam have 
both previously performed at High Dive, although this is Big Sam’s ﬁ  rst time with this band. 
Big Sam said it has been years since his 
last visit. 
The trombonist also added that the band 
hasn’t been in Florida as much as it should be, but the members plan on returning 
within the next three to four months.He wants to get here and give the peo-
ple what they want, he said.
Big Sam said he loves what he does for 
a living. He never imagined that music 
would take him, or anyone, this far.
 “To really see what music brings to 
people is amazing,” he said. “It’s a great feeling.”Big Sam brings New Orleans funk to Gainesville
ABOVE:
New Orleans-based band Big 
Sam’s Funky Nation will perform at 9 p.m. on Friday at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. Tickets are available at the door for $12.
Courtesy to the Alligator
LEFT:
Local band The Savants of Soul will open for Big Sam’s Funky Nation Friday. Lead singer Chel-sea Oxendine said the 10-man soul band is a well-suited open-er for the headlining act.
Courtesy to the Alligator
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
In the past week and a half there were 
numerous mixtapes released from some 
big-name artists. This mixtape roundup will give you that heat for that moment you’re passed the aux cord on the way to 
Atlanta this weekend for the Southeastern 
Conference Championship.
Waka Flocka Flame“Flockaveli 1.5” — 11.25Waka Flocka Flame dropped his highly 
anticipated mixtape “Flockaveli 1.5” on Nov. 25. “Flockaveli 1.5” is a follow-up to Waka’s debut album “Flockaveli,” which 
was released back in 2010. 
Atlanta producer Southside handles the 
majority of the production with help from 
Metro Boomin and TM88, and the mixtape only has a few features most notably from Quavo on “Hit A Lick.” “Flockaveli 1.5” is full of bangers and is a must-listen.
Lil Wayne
“No Ceilings 2” — 11.26
Out of the three mixtapes released on 
Thanksgiving, “No Ceilings 2” wasn’t one that stood out to me. It’s no secret that Weezy isn’t what he used to be. He practi-cally owned the mid-2000s, but he’s fallen off big time in the past few years. 
Besides a good verse every now and then, Wayne has yet to show he still has what it takes to be considered one of the best right now. 
Making a sequel to possibly the best 
mixtape of all time was a mistake. Tunechi should have left the “No Ceilings” name alone. 
NC2 has its few moments but, for the 
most part, you should listen solely because it’s Lil Wayne, but you aren’t missing any-thing if you don’t.
Fabolous“Summertime Shootout” — 11.26Fabolous is one of the few rappers who 
have stood the test of time, and he contin-ues to excel on “Summertime Shootout.” Fabolous dropped the tape on Thanksgiv-ing and has now released an album and two mixtapes within the past year, and he  still has “The Young OG Project 2” coming 
out Christmas Day. 
“Summertime Shootout” is straight ﬁ  re; 
the beats are super dope and his wordplay 
and ﬂ  ow are impeccable. Fabolous remix-es a couple popular songs including The Weeknd’s “Tell Ya Friends,” Bryson Tiller’s “Sorry Not Sorry” and, of course, Drake’s “Hotline Bling.” 
Fabolous links up with Nicki Minaj, 
Trey Songz and Rich Homie Quan on some of the original songs as well. This mixtape is really good and I guarantee you’ll have it on repeat for a while.Rick Ross“Renzel Remixes” — 11.26Rick Ross dropped a two-part mixtape 
on Thanksgiving titled “Renzel Remixes” that has 26 songs in total with features coming from Nas, Snoop Dogg, Kendrick Lamar, Meek Mill, Wale, Fat Trel and more. “Renzel Remixes” include a number of pop-ular songs such as “Where Ya At,” “Hello,” “White Iverson,” “In Da Club,” “Flashing Lights,” “Can’t Feel My Face” and “Jump-man.” Rozay has been one of the best rap-
pers of the past decade and he never disap-
points.
Chris Brown“Before The Party” — 11.27About a month before his next album 
“Royalty” is scheduled to be released, Chris Brown blessed us with a 34-track mixtape: “Before The Party.” The tape is about two 
hours long and features Rihanna, Wiz 
Khalifa, Wale, Tyga, French Montana, Fetty Wap and others. It’s amazing that these art-ists give all these great songs away for free, but I’m not complaining. Just go ahead and click that download button on “Before The Party.”
Lil Bibby
“Free Crack 3” — 11.27
Lil Bibby dropped the third installment 
in his “Free Crack” mixtape series on Nov. 27. Lil Bibby was a member of the 2014 XXL Freshman Class, and he continues to make noise in the game. The 21-year-old from Chicago worked with some big-time artists 
and producers on “Free Crack 3” such as 
Future, Common, R. Kelly, Jeremih, South-side, Metro Boomin, Young Chop and Jake One. Lil Bibby is slowly but surely gaining a following, and if you haven’t checked him out yet now is a good time to start. “Free Crack 3” is pretty good, and I think a lot of people could vibe to it.
Trey Songz“To Whom It May Concern” — 11.28Trey Songz surprised everyone with a 
mixtape on his birthday, Saturday. Hosted by DJ Drama, “To Whom It May Concern” has 12 songs with only a couple of features. Trigga has always put out quality music so this mixtape is a gift to his fans. “To Whom It May Concern” is Trey Songz’s ﬁ  rst project 
released since his “Intermission” EP, which 
came out in April, and his ﬁ  rst mixtape since “#LemmeHoldTheBeat2” in 2011.
Fetty Wap“For My Fans” — 12.1Fetty Wap unexpectedly dropped ﬁ  ve 
new tracks on his SoundCloud page (user-name: FettyWap1738) on Tuesday. To be 
honest, Fetty Wap’s music is starting to 
sound like the same song, but the “For My Fans” extended play is only about 20 min-utes long so you might as well listen.
MUSIC ROUNDUP:  LATEST MIXTAPES ff the Record
 MEDIOCRE ADVICEGIRLFRIENDS, GILFS AND GOATS 
I’m pretty sure I have the herps, but 
is it true if I never get tested I’ll never 
really have it?
- Herb Peas
Just rub some dirt in it. It 
should clear up in a few days. 
Why even ﬁ  nd out?
 Sometimes it’s better to just never 
ﬁ  nd out the truth about things, and this 
is one of those times.
How do I get with a MILF?
- Anonymous
Do you work as a pool boy, milk-
man or waiter at a high-end restaurant? If yes, odds are you’ve already gotten with a MILF.
 If not, there’s still hope. My advice: 
Join a gym in a retirement community. 
Start pumping iron left and right, up 
and down, up and down. 
I know a retirement community may 
seem old, but as the old phrase goes, if 
you shoot for the stars, the worst case 
is you’ll end up on the moon. And that, my friend, is 
why if you go for the great-est prize of all — the GILF 
(grandma I’d like to…) — 
then you may ﬁ  nd yourself a mom.
Dear Sage Simon,I have been hooking up 
with this girl for almost ﬁ  ve months now. I asked her to be my girl-friend but she said she did not want to 
put a label on it. I feel a tiny bit disre-
spected, how should I proceed?
- Mike Hunt
Doesn’t want to put a label on it?! 
Honestly, she’s just scared to get hurt. But can you really blame her? Falling in love is scary and sad. 
At such a young age, and for anybody 
who has already been hurt, they can attest you can be the happiest person in the world with your partner, but in the back of your mind, the happiness they 
bring you also brings sudden waves of 
sadness and melancholy. Because like everything 
in life, and as illustrated by the Buddhist concept of 
samsara, nothing in life is 
sustainable. 
Deep down you know 
what you have is going to 
come to an end. And when it 
does it’s going to suck, and I swear that was the softest 
s--- I’ve ever written. 
Some of my boys are going to vegas 
on Spring break, but I’m trying to convince them that going to Colorado is the move instead. 
Why do my friends have such myopic 
viewpoints on the deﬁ  nition of having fun in college?
- Ski MASTER
OK, ﬁ  rst of all, Las Vegas is one of 
the greatest places in the world. 
However, what Las Vegas has in 
rowdiness, it severely lacks in majesty. 
And majesty is precisely what the mountains hold. 
Why do you think Thoreau went to 
the woods? 
Why Sir Edmund Hillary climbed 
Everest? Why the chicken crossed the 
road? 
It’s the adventure and luster of the 
outdoors that completes the soul. Also, 
spring skiing is the GOAT (greatest of all time). 
Think: 50 degree weather, skiing 
in hoodies, sparkling snow, looming 
mountains, and bros. 
Sure, you may not ﬁ  nd any strippers 
in Colorado, but hey, you can get those 
the rest of the year anyway.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. His column appears in the 
Avenue section on Thursdays. If you 
have any questions you would like to see answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.
advice@gmail.com.
Simon Moskovitz
Avenue WriterBy Ansley Pentz
Avenue Writer 
Here’s the best way to deal with ﬁ  nals: 
Procrastinate by watching (or re-watching) 
six seasons of “Gossip Girl,” and drink away your stress.
The characters in “Gossip Girl,” which 
ended in 2012 and can be found on Netf-lix, will make you forget your ﬁ  nals-week woes. A “B” in bio is no match for a group of Upper-East-Side teens’ dramatic ﬁ  ghts, friendship fallouts and drug addictions.
The show starts by following a group of 
wealthy private-school friends who obses-sively check a gossip site where an anony-mous blogger, called “Gossip Girl,” spills their juiciest secrets. While the friends struggle to deal with eating disorders, co-
caine use and applying to Ivy League col-
leges, a middle-class student, Dan Hum-phrey (Penn Badgley), falls for one of the most popular (and richest) girls at school, Serena van der Woodsen (Blake Lively).  
Dan serves as a contrast to the lav-
ish lifestyle of the popular students, who he calls immoral, corrupt and conniving. What makes “Gossip Girl” great, though, 
is that viewers will indoubtably love every 
main character, even after they hire pros-titutes and commit someone to a mental institution.
Serena’s best friend/frenemy, Blair 
Waldorf (Leighton Meester), is a prime ex-ample: She calls herself a queen bitch be-cause she is one. But she also deeply loves the suave Chuck Bass (Ed Westwick), and 
she is there for Serena when no one else is.
“Gossip Girl” will make you want to 
move to New York to become a socialite. 
There’s no better way to escape crying about your semester GPA.
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
Football, food trucks and felines: 
That’s the theme of this weekend’s Gainesville Food Truck Rally.
High Dive, located at 210 SW 
Second Ave., will host its ﬁ  nal food truck rally of the year at 3 p.m. Sat-urday. The free event will feature food trucks, a beer garden and live music.
Pat Lavery, the founder of the 
Gainesville Food Truck Rally at High Dive, said he started organizing these rallies in January 2013. He said they run about every six weeks. Starting this year, the rally has chosen a char-ity to partner with and raise money for. On Saturday, Operation Catnip is the charity, he said.
“We like to get charities that are 
really excited about the event,” he said. On average, the rallies raise about $1,000.
More than 10 local and regional 
food trucks will serve food, including vegan and vegetarian options, ac-cording to a High Dive press release. 
Free live music from local bands will 
play during halftime and after the game. The bands El Camino, Gross Negligence and Courtney Opsatnick will perform.The Southeastern Conference 
Championship game will be shown at 4 p.m. on a projection screen 
inside High Dive, and three more screens will show the game outside 
in the beer garden, according to the event page. 
Sara Ericson has never been to a food truck rally. However, the 21-year-old UF mathematics junior said she’s always wanted to go.
“It’s just really neat that these people can travel anywhere with their restaurant,” she said.
Lavery said approximately 2,000 
to 3,000 people attend the rallies, but with this one being so prominent, he hopes more will come.
“We’re starting early this time,” 
he said. “People can get their food before the game starts.”
He said the trucks start serving 
food at 3 p.m. and stop when they run out, usually at about 11 p.m.
For Operation Catnip, volunteers 
stand at each truck and encourage people to vote by putting money in a bucket. The truck with the most money then wins a prize, and all the money collected goes to Operation Catnip at the end.
There’s also a silent auction in-
side High Dive that will beneﬁ  t the 
charity.
Emily Henderson is the devel-
opment program coordinator for 
Operation Catnip. Operation Catnip works to improve the lives of cats by bringing large-scale spay-and-neuter programs across the country, accord-ing to Henderson.
“We are so excited to be working 
with the High Dive to bring foodies and cat-lovers together for the SEC Championship game,” she wrote in an email.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
High Dive is hosting its ﬁ  nal food truck rally of the year at 3 p.m. on Saturday. The SEC Champi-
onship game will be shown at 4 p.m. with live music during halftime.
High Dive food truck rally to raise money for local charity
LOCAL
SEASON’S GREETINGS, GAINESVILLE!
Though we may not feel it yet, 
December is here. So are ﬁ  -nals, stress and, for some of us, yellow Penske trucks to help us move out of our apart-
ments. It’s the end of a long semester and now united, we celebrate the end of the year with festivities around the school.
Merry Mug MakingDoing crafts is a secret pleasure of 
many students and residents of the ‘Ville. Luckily, Reitz Union Board Entertainment has our creative backs 
when it comes to decorating holiday 
mugs and ornaments. Today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. students and one guest are welcome to get their craft on at the Reitz Union’s Arts and Crafts Center. Participants will have the chance to decorate either one holiday or chevron mug, or two ornaments. If that deal isn’t sweet enough, then 
check out the hot chocolate, cook-
ies and tea that will be served as re-freshments. Go on and take a mental health break. Those books will be there when you get back.
Light Up The Village‘Tis the season for lights galore 
and there is no better way to enjoy the festivities than at the Haile Vil-
lage Center Friday from 5 p.m. to 9 
p.m. for an evening of lights. A night of fun that includes face painting, holiday activities and treats is sure to be a hit for those in the mood to celebrate the holidays sans the cold weather (#FloridaProbs). Still not convinced? Well Santa’s in the house! Yes, you read correctly. The one and only jolly Santa Claus will be at the event. Come one, come all!
The Snow QueenHypothetically beat the heat by 
watching “The Snow Queen,” the last show of the year at the Hippo-drome. Through December 20, audi-ence members can enjoy a rendition of the classic tale from Hans Christian Anderson. With show times ranging from 2 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. throughout the week, there is plenty of time to catch the play. Ticket prices may 
vary. Visit thehipp.org/events/the-
snow-queen/ to learn more.
Backpack with a RangerJust outside of G-ville is the 
Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park. Dec. 5 and 6 present an exclusive opportunity to backpack with a park ranger. From 10 a.m. on Saturday to 12 p.m. on Sunday participants will 
have the chance to take part in a 6.5-
mile hike and camp overnight. Spaces are limited to 20 people, so if you’re interested in being one with nature visit their website and ﬁ  nd out how to reserve your spot at prairiefriends.org/event-2072654. Yee haw!
Florida PINK Victoria’s Secret 
Fashion Show Viewing Party
On Dec. 8 from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m., 
The Grove Gainesville will host the biggest PINK event of the year. Come out for a PINK-style party and the chance to win prizes, play games and enjoy snacks while watching one of the most coveted shows of the year. Bring friends and enjoy the show!
Take a sip...
 when Serena ﬂ  ips her hair
 when Blair rolls her eyes or sighs 
condescendingly
 every time Little J annoys you
 when someone calls Dan “Lonely 
Boy”
 when you want to hug Dorota or 
Cyrus (literally always)
 when Chuck says, “Iʼm Chuck 
Bass,” and youʼre like “OK, 
beautiful”
Take a shot...
 every time one of Serenaʼs ex-
boyfriends is introduced when Blair executes a scheme 
(even when it all goes to hell in a 
handbasket)
 when you decide to dig out your 
middle school headband because 
Blair... ʻnuff said
 when  Nate  dates  someone  twice 
his  age
 when youʼre surprised at how many 
drugs Upper East siders use
Finish your drink...
 when you start to like Chuck Bass
 when Nate smiles like a freaking 
angel
 when you question the morality of S 
and Dʼs relationshipTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
By Ashlyn Pinter
Avenue Writer
Two UF students have created 
Just Kidding, a sketch comedy 
group based on poking fun at what they know: the theater community.
“We make fun of musical the-
ater a lot because we’ve kind of grown up doing that. It’s things we see,” said Lauren Killer, the 21-year-old co-founder and a UF 
theatre senior. “If we see a silly or 
bad performance we are inspired to 
write a sketch about it.”
The group is made up of under-
graduate and graduate UF students. 
Just Kidding will be performing at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre for 
the second year in a row Dec. 11 and 12 at 11 p.m. Tickets can be purchased through justkidding-
comedy.com and are available for 
about $7.
The group will perform in the 
cinema space of the Hippodrome. 
Killer and Chaz May, a 20-year-
old musical theater junior and co-
founder of Just Kidding, discovered 
this as the perfect space within their budget.
“It’s this cool little black box 
theater that a lot of people don’t re-
ally know about,” Killer said.
The show will include pre-re-
corded sketches that will be shown via projector as well as live sketch-
es. It will feature two recurring sketches from last year with seven actors, eight including Killer’s dog, she joked.
“Lauren and I started our 
sketches last year and we were like, ‘Let’s do a show, let’s rent out the Hippodrome,’ and then we just kind of picked a couple people that were also in the theater building that we have worked with in the past,” May said.
One of the recurring sketches 
includes a character May created.  His character premiered last year as a crazy community theater di-rector named Richard E. Flanni-gan. The “E” stands for Elaine. In last year’s performance, Richard E. Flannigan put on an age-inverted gender-bended version of Annie. This year, they decided his charac-ter would put on a show he wrote himself.
“I grew up in a community the-
ater and I know people like this so that’s kind of what sparked that for us. Last year we did a sketch about a family taking their Christ-mas photos and that was pretty much based on our families,” May recalled.
Although the group is still new 
to the scene, founded in 2014, Just Kidding is pursuing an online pres-ence with its YouTube channel. Even though they only have what Killer said is “like four” subscrib-
ers, they know they need a pres-
ence to break into comedy.
The group had technical dif-
ﬁ  culties last year during ﬁ  lming, 
so this year they have planned the 
performance to be live-streamed 
so people can watch it from their 
computers. The ﬁ  nal product will be uploaded straight to YouTube, Killer said.
“If you know me and you know 
Chaz, and you know who we are together, you know people are like, ‘Oh Lauren and Chaz they’re 
gooﬁ  ng off together again,’” Killer 
said. “We make a bit out of almost 
anything. We kind of realized we could turn our friendship into a comedy show.”
Both May and Killer are looking 
to pursue a career in comedy, and referenced their favorite comedi-ans, Tina Fey and Fred Armisen. “Tina Fey is my business model,” 
Killer laughed.
“I think this show comes from a 
place of joy, it comes from us just 
having fun that we want to share with other people,” Killer said. 
“We want to make people happy, 
we want people to laugh, we want 
people to feel good. That’s really what we want.”Sketch comedy group to perform, poke fun at theater
By Sean Anderson
Avenue Writer
What started as a faint vision for 
20-year-old UF theatre junior Andrew Qui-
mby during his freshman year has blos-
somed into a full-blown theater production 
that will take stage this Friday.
The Florida Players are presenting the 
provocatively titled show “Thank God for 
AIDS” this week at the UF School of The-
atre and Dance in the Black Box Theatre. The fully student-produced show will pre-miere Friday at 7:30 p.m., with more show-ings Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Quimby, the show’s writer, said the 
eye-catching title serves not only to evoke curiosity, but it ﬁ  ts with the show’s central themes of intolerance and prejudice.
“I get very mixed reactions to the title, 
but it deﬁ  nitely gets people wondering,” Quimby said. 
“‘Thank God for AIDS,’ which is set in 
the late ’80s in Topeka, Kansas, is about a kid who gets involved with an extremist Christian church and is torn between his family and the charismatic leader of the 
church.”
Although this show deals with heavy 
topics like religious extremism and dis-
crimination toward the gay community, Quimby said his main intention in writing “Thank God for AIDS” was to entertain.
“This show has both elements of a 
drama and elements of a comedy,” Qui-mby said. “I don’t expect people to want to change the world after seeing it, I just hope people leave thinking, ‘Two hours well spent.’”Twenty-one-year-old UF theatre junior 
Nick Chinaris worked closely with Quimby 
to direct the show. He said the story im-
mediately stood out to him when Quimby ﬁ  rst proposed it.
“I’ve been in theater for quite some time 
and this is by far the best student work I have read,” Chinaris said. “I’ve been there since almost the beginning of its incep-
tion and I had a very clear vision of what 
I wanted to do with it — (Quimby) birthed the child and I raised it.”
Chinaris said he hopes “Thank God for 
AIDS” will call attention to prejudice that 
is still present in society. 
Although the story isn’t allegorical, it is 
based on some actual groups that hold this 
sentiment of intolerance, he said.
“Whenever I go into a show, a sign of 
accomplishment for me is if people are still thinking about it three days later,” China-ris said. “With this show, I want to impart with the audience a real look on how eas-
ily fear-mongering towards any group of 
people that differ from oneself can infect an otherwise reasonable person.”
Florida Players is a UF student-run the-
ater company that allows students of all majors to “explore the world of theatre and showcase their works in doing so,” accord-ing to the company’s website. 
“Thank God for AIDS” is Florida Play-
ers’ last show of the Fall season and Qui-mby, who is the president of the company, hopes to close out the year with a bang.
“I want this show to make you either 
laugh, cry or think, but most of all, I just want everyone to have a good time,” Qui-mby said.Florida Players to present play titled ‘Thank God for AIDS’
THEATERCourtesy to the Alligator
Just Kidding is a sketch comedy group based on poking fun on what they know best: theater. The 
group will perform at 11 p.m. Dec. 11 and 12 at the Hippodrome State Theatre, 25 SE Second Place.
Sean Anderson / Alligator
Stephanie Watson, 19, and Matthew Henao, 20, make protest signs that will be used for props in “Thank God for AIDS. ” The play premieres Friday.
Show is at HippodromeTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
12-9-15-17-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
COORDINATOR, friendly solo healthcare prac-tice. 10-14 hrs/wk. $11-14/hr. Pt. contact, records, accounts, HIPAA, ICD10 billing, scheduling, orga-nization/filing, phones, referrals. Non-smo.w/car. Spanish a+. FAX resume: 352-377-3193.    12-4-15-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled $8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     1-8-15-11-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring deli/bar help. No experience required. Must have reliable transportation. Applications ac-cepted at either 2327 NW 13th St or 5156 SW 34th St location.   12-9-15-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: December 14, 2015 at 3:00 
p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     12-3-1-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Junior wide receiver Demarcus 
Robinson returned to practice on Wednesday after being suspended for the Florida State game. Read the story on pg. 20.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF defensive coordinator lands at Maryland
Former Florida defensive coordinator D.J. Durkin has accepted the head 
coaching position at Maryland, the school confirmed on Wednesday. Durkin was at Florida from 2010-14, ending as defensive coordinator from '13-14. FLORIDA OPENS NCAA 
TOURNAMENT PLAY TONIGHT.
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
When Ziva Recek first stepped on to the 
University of Florida campus, she barely spoke 
English. 
More than 5,000 miles away from her 
hometown of Kocevje, Slovenia, the freshman 
volleyball player was away from her family, 
friends and the world where she had grown up, just hoping to fit in and help the team. 
That was three years ago. Now a senior, Ziva is one of the unques-
tioned leaders on the Gators volleyball team that is gearing up for a postseason run in the NCAA tournament — which starts tonight at 7 as No. 11 seed Florida faces New Hampshire — looking to capture the program’s first na-tional championship. 
•   •   •
“(The) first time I came here was with my 
youth national team, we were around like 16 or 15 years old,” notes Ziva, reflecting on a time that was just a few years ago but feels like a lifetime. 
Ziva and the Slovenian team was playing 
a tournament in Sacramento, California. For about two weeks, the team had a training camp in California and soaked in the American 
lifestyle. 
Upon arrival in the States, Ziva knew that 
if the opportunity presented itself, playing col-
legiate volleyball in America was worth pursu-ing. 
A campus tour at the University of San 
Francisco sealed the deal.
"They showed us how everything works … their facilities, their dorms and everything," Ziva said, "so we kind of got a feel for how it is being a college volleyball player for the first time.”
However, living in Slovenia made the re-
cruiting process arduous.     
It was difficult for American coaches to see 
her play, and the 48-hour window that the NCAA allows recruits for campus visits meant that she had to fly to and from Europe for only a weekend’s worth of time spent on campus. 
Normally, this would have hindered the re-
cruiting process. Slovenian Success: Senior nears end of UF volleyball career SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Jim McElwain’s dead fish anal-
ogy isn’t something new.
During a media teleconference 
on Wednesday, current SEC Net-
work analyst and former Alabama quarterback Greg McElroy revealed that McElwain routinely brought 
up the same seafood imagery while 
serving as Alabama’s offensive co-ordinator. 
The coach would even bring 
pictures.
“Mac always talked about two 
ways to think and approach a practice,” McElroy said. “You can either be dead fish, and he put up 
a picture of a dead fish in the aisle 
in the ice, or you could be Charlie Tuna. … Which guy do you wanna be around?”
Charlie Tuna, or officially re-
ferred to as Charlie the Tuna, is the happy, cheerful mascot for the StarKist tuna brand. He’s also symbolic of the type of personality 
McElwain wants his teams to have, 
as well as the attitude McElwain himself embodies.
“I think that’s one thing that gets 
lost in the shuffle,” McElroy said 
about his former coach. “Dealing 
with all the other aspects of play-ing football at the college level, it can wear you out, especially at sea-
son’s end with the pressures these 
young men have to operate under. So having a coach that makes it fun I think is really important.”
McElroy said he knew even back then that McElwain was head coach material, just from the way 
the coach carried himself off the 
field and how he handled his play-ers on it.
McElwain was a master of in-
stilling confidence in his team, both by ensuring that his players were as prepared as possible and that they believed in their game 
plan heading into each game.
“I thought he did a really nice 
job making me feel good about the 
plan every single week, making sure I didn’t have any questions 
about what we were doing offen-
sively,” the former quarterback said. “He was just a really good teacher.”
That preparation was show-
cased in the 2009 Southeastern Conference Championship game between Alabama and Florida.
McElroy explained how McEl-
wain’s scouting had shown weak-nesses in the Gators, whether it was lining up Alabama wide re-ceiver Julio Jones in the slot to neu-
tralize UF cornerback Joe Haden’s Former Alabama QB 
talks Jim McElwain
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Standing at 6-foot-3 and weigh-
ing in around 240 pounds, Ala-
bama running back Derrick Hen-
ry is built like a linebacker, but 
he’s quick enough and powerful enough to run through you with the momentum of a high-speeding semi truck down a highway.
The junior running back has 
been running through and around defenses this year to the tune of 1,797 yards and 22 touchdowns, both ranked first in the nation. 
And as No. 18 Florida prepares 
for the matchup against Henry on Saturday in the Southeastern Con-ference Championship game, the Gators can’t help but marvel at the talent that is the junior run-
ning back.   
“All I can say is wow,” coach 
Jim McElwain said of Henry. “The 
speed and the power and really the way Derrick always goes for-
ward. … He can make a difference 
in any ball game.”
The Gators have already faced 
two top-tier running backs in col-
lege football this season in LSU’s 
Leonard Fournette and Florida State’s Dalvin Cook. UF preparing for stud 'Bama RB
AP Photo
Alabama running back Derrick Henry runs the ball during the Crimson Tide's 29-13 win against 
Auburn on Saturday at Jordan-Hare Stadium. 
He has 1,797 rushing yards“Dealing with all the other 
aspects of playing football at 
the college level, it can wear 
you out, especially at season’s 
end with the pressures these 
young men have to operate 
under. So having a coach 
that makes it fun I think is 
really important.”
Greg McElroy
former Alabama quarterback
SEE MCELWAIN,  PAGE 19 SEE HENRY,  PAGE 19
SEE ZIVA,  PAGE 1918   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
Both of them had success against Flori-
da’s defense, rushing for at least 180 yards 
and two touchdowns as UF suffered its 
only losses in the regular season.
And with Henry added to the equation, 
the Gators might see three Heisman Tro-
phy finalists, as UF cornerback Jalen Ta-
bor pointed out. 
Henry has become the front-runner for 
college football’s most prestigious award, 
and he’s broken former Alabama running back Trent Richardson’s single-season 
school rushing record of 1,679 yards.  
He’s also carried the ball 295 times this 
season — second most in the nation — 
and his bruising running style isn’t for the 
faint of heart.  
“It’s fun to watch him play. When 
you’re watching it’s fun,” Tabor said of 
Henry. “Not when you’re playing against him.”
Alabama coach Nick Saban has seen 
first-hand what Henry is capable of doing while running the football. 
But it’s his growth as a player in other 
aspects of the game that have made Henry an elite weapon. 
“Derrick (has) always been a really 
good ball carrier, but he’s improved as a blocker,” Saban said. “He’s improved as a receiver, he’s improved in all areas where he doesn’t have the ball and has become a 
much more complete player.”
And while Henry has received a lot of 
publicity leading up to Saturday’s game, 
he does have a connection to another run-
ning back playing in the game: Florida’s 
Kelvin Taylor.  
It won’t be the first time the two will  
face each other as the feature backs on a field. When both were in high school — 
Taylor at Glades Day and Henry at Yulee 
— they played against each other in one of the most anticipated matchups in Florida high school history.
Henry’s high school got the better of 
Taylor’s, winning 42-6 with Henry rush-ing for 362 yards and six touchdowns compared to Taylor’s 223 yards and one touchdown.
“That was a fun game, really big game. 
Had a lot of hype around it,” Henry said. “It was fun to play in on that stage in high school and looking forward to playing 
against him again in the SEC Champion-ship.”
But the game had a different impact on 
the two of them. It cemented a friendship 
between the two. 
Taylor said he keeps in contact with 
Henry a couple of times a week, and that he will talk to him leading up to the game on Saturday.
Taylor said playing in the Georgia 
Dome will bring back memories of that night when the two of them ran wild at Yulee.
“I think it’s going to be a great experi-
ence just for the both of us … not really 
even against each other, just both of our teams going against each other,” Taylor 
said. 
“Just remembering all of the high 
school memories, both of us being the No. 1 and No. 2 running backs, so I feel like 
it’s going to be a cool experience.”THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
“I was really lucky that one of my 
friends at home, he was actually a 
coach at (the University of) Utah,” Ziva said. 
“He moved to Slovenia and he 
had like this volleyball agency. So he had a lot of connections here in (the) U.S., so he … gave (coach Mary Wise) my contact (information).”
After exchanging emails back 
and forth and talking on Skype, Ziva came to Gainesville on her official visit in the fall of 2011. 
She didn’t see any other schools. Wise made the long journey 
to Europe to watch her play a few months later, and Ziva committed to play for the Gators soon after. 
“It was (a) short process,” notes 
Ziva.
“I really liked it when I came here 
for my official visit. So I was just like, ‘that’s it.’”
•   •   •
Even before she arrived at Flori-
da, Ziva had an extensive volleyball resume. 
Her first introduction to the sport 
came from her older sisters, Nina, 
30, and Alja, 24, who were both vol-
leyball players.
At just 7 years old and too young 
to play with them, Ziva would tag along to her sisters’ practices, rele-gated to the role of ball girl until she was old enough to participate. 
When she finally began to com-
pete, her budding talent was undeni-
able.
But while her potential indoors 
was obvious, it was on sand courts 
where Ziva got her first taste of suc-cess. 
At age 13, she finished in second 
place at Slovenia’s Beach Champion-ships in the Under-16 and Under-18 categories. At 14, she dominated older com-
petition on her way to victories in 
these events along with wins in the 
Under-20 and Under-23 groups. 
Her international career indoors 
also commenced when she was just 13, beginning with a stint on the Slo-venian Youth National Team, where she was a member from 2006-2009. 
The team won back-to-back 
Middle European Volleyball Zonal 
Association summer and winter 
tournaments in 2007 and 2008. In 2009, she graduated to the Junior National Team where Slovenia fin-ished eighth at the Junior European Championships.
While in high school, Ziva also 
won two Slovenian Junior Champi-onship titles and two MVP awards 
while playing for her club team, 
Aliansa. 
Despite this impressive resume, 
coming to America to play volleyball provided Ziva with an entirely new set of challenges. 
•   •   •
Living an ocean away from home 
took its toll. 
Ziva was in a foreign world, a 
world where she had difficulty with simple things that players often took 
for granted, like communicating 
with teammates. 
“My freshman year there was a 
lot of things to adjust to, especially language and ... culture in general, like food and … lifestyle,” she said. 
Ziva says her transition to life 
in America was facilitated by older players on the team like Betsy Smith, 
who ensured Recek that no matter 
how isolated she felt, she was never alone. 
“She always made sure that ev-
eryone, especially us freshman, or me being so far away from home, (was) taken care of,” Ziva said. 
“You kind of feel like you still 
have a family here because (of) how supportive they are.” 
While she struggled to transition 
to life off the court, on the court she 
was playing some of the best volley-
ball of her career. 
In 2012, Ziva was named the 
American Volleyball Coaches As-sociation National Freshman of the Year after posting one of the most impressive seasons in the history of the Florida volleyball program, amassing 440 kills on .247 hitting to 
go along with 259 digs.
As she became more comfortable 
in America, both her game and her 
role on the team grew tremendously. 
•   •   •
Ziva has come a long way 
from the freshman who came to Gainesville three years ago and didn’t speak English. 
She’s smooth. 
She’s sarcastic.
But most importantly, she lets her actions speak louder than her words. 
Since arriving at Florida, she has 
worked on and off the court to im-prove her game and her English. 
“Looking back on it, Ziva could 
hardly speak to us,” senior Nikki O’Rourke said. 
“Now you would never even 
know.”
Ziva has taken it upon herself to 
mentor the team’s younger players, remembering how meaningful it was as a freshman having the seniors to 
lean on. 
Whether it’s arriving early to get 
in extra reps before practice or help-
ing the younger players during drills, her work ethic is second-to-none. 
“She leads by example,” senior 
Simone Antwi said.
“I think that’s a really big thing.”The same work ethic that pushed 
Ziva to learn English has driven her to improve facets of her game every season. “It’s so awesome to see how her 
game has grown. … Every year she gets so much better and it’s so cool to see,” Antwi said. 
•   •   •
After leaving Florida, Ziva plans 
to stay in America and remain in-volved in volleyball as a coach. 
Recently, she was named a recipi-
ent of the AVCA Coaches 4 Coaches 
scholarship, which pays for future 
coaches to attend their first coaching convention. 
She is also a member of Slove-
nia’s Senior National Team, and missed four of the Gators’ regular season games while competing at the European Championships this year. 
As for now, she remains focused 
on finishing her senior season strong.  
“She’s our stabilizer,” coach 
Wise said.
“As Ziva goes, so does our team.” ZIVA,  from pg17She plans to start coachingstrengths on the outside or exposing Florida’s 
blitz patterns for big plays.
“I think what he does a really good job of is 
recognizing tendencies, big-picture tendencies, too, not just on his side of the football, but on the other side,” McElroy said. “What they’re 
doing offensively and how that affects how the 
defensive coordinator usually acts.”
Even with all the respect the former Crim-
son Tide quarterback has for McElwain, he’s 
still blown away with what the coach has done 
in a short time with the Gators and says he be-lieves it’s a testament to how good he can be.
“I love him as a coach, and he’s obviously 
done an incredible job really overachieving in 
year one with Florida,” McElroy said. “If you 
look at the personnel that they had in the spring and how much that personnel improved from then until now, it’s absolutely off the charts.”MCELWAIN,  from pg17McElroy lauds 
UF's success 
this seasonHENRY,  from pg17Henry, Taylor faced each other in high school
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF outside hitter Ziva Recek (middle) celebrates with teamates  after a point during Florida's 3-0 win 
against Alabama on Nov. 13 in the O'Connell Center.
“I think it’s going to be a great 
experience just for the both of us … 
not really even against each other, just 
both of our teams going against each 
other.”
Kelvin T aylor
UF running back20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Demarcus Robinson now has 
another opportunity.
After being suspended prior 
to Florida’s 27-2 loss to Florida 
State on Saturday for violating an undisclosed team rule, the team’s 
seniors decided 
to let him return 
to the team, UF 
coach Jim McEl-wain said.
The wide re-
ceiver practiced on Wednesday, but McElwain 
said his availability for the South-
eastern Conference Champion-
ship Game against Alabama is still up in the air. 
“As I’ve said before, he has 
come a long way,” McElwain 
said. 
“But he still has a long way 
to go to understand it’s not OK 
to make choices that hurt your 
team.”
This was Robinson’s fourth 
suspension since coming to UF as 
highly touted prospect out of Fort Valley, Georgia.
Robinson was also demoted to 
third string for the East Carolina game on Sept. 12 for skipping a team meeting.
After a breakout sophomore 
year (53 catches, 810 yards, sev-en touchdowns) that saw him earn third-team All-SEC honors, Robinson’s production has re-
gressed this season.
He still leads the team with 47 
catches, but has just 505 yards 
and two touchdowns.
His 10.7 yards per catch ranks 
fourth out of the six UF players with at least 15 catches.
Robinson’s numbers have 
dropped signiﬁ  cantly as of late as 
well.
He failed to record a catch in 
two of his past four games he’s 
played.
Despite his inconsistency this 
season, Robinson’s presence al-lows other pass catchers — most notably freshman receiver Anto-nio Callaway and sixth-year se-
nior tight end Jake McGee — to 
ﬁ  nd open seams and make plays.
“Sometimes the greatest les-
sons in life are when things are 
taken away from you,” McElwain 
said, “and you’re no longer en-abled.”UF seniors 
keep Robinson on team 
Robinson
