VOLUME 109 ISSUE 103 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Environmental loss causing monarch 
butterﬂ  y disappearance
They are losing food and habitat space, pg. 9. Wienermobile, NUTmobile visit UF
They’re having a recruiting session Feb. 24, pg 5.  
Active Streets closes off road to cars in Gainesville Sunday
Vendors will provide free services such as yoga, pg 3. The Florida 
men’s basketball 
team has not 
had luck on its 
side this season. 
Read the story 
on page 13.
67/39
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
It runs in the family
Mary Katherine Fechtel is crowned 2015 Miss UF by her sister and former Miss UF Elizabeth Fechtel at the 2015 Miss UF Scholarship Pageant.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Swamp Party and Access Party 
members handed out ﬂ  iers to stu-dents Monday morning on Turling-ton Plaza listing their platforms.
Joseph Michaels, Swamp Party’s 
Student Body presidential candi-date, revealed his party’s platform with his Student Body vice presi-dential candidate Tia Smart by his side.
“This is a platform that will al-
low us to live better, save more, study smarter and thrive together,” Michaels said.He said Swamp aims to improve 
students’ lives by building a gym and recreational center on Norman Field, adding a new parking garage, expanding nighttime transportation and establishing a hammock rental program.
Swamp’s platform also focused on extending hours at Marston Sci-
ence Library and Library West, ex-
panding free printing across cam-
pus and reducing wait times for 
advising.
“A large portion of our under-
standing of the students and their needs has accumulated through our 
experiences over the past four years 
as student leaders and representa-tives,” Michaels said.
He said speciﬁ  c platform details will be released throughout the 
campaign and during the Freshman 
Leadership Council debate today at 
6 p.m in the University Auditorium.
Access Party’s campaign man-
ager Michael Christ said the main 
goal of the party is to bridge the 
gap between students and Student 
Government. The party’s platform 
stresses accessibility, accountability SG party platforms focus on improving campus life
Released ahead of tonight’s debate
ZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
Members of the UF community raised concerns 
with Student Government’s Accent Speaker’s Bu-
reau, ﬁ  nding it uncooperative with various diver-sity programs on campus.
On Sunday, Melissa Johnson, associate direc-
tor of the UF Honors Program, tweeted at Accent, questioning when the organization would sponsor a speaker for Women’s History Month and asking if it is still “unimportant.”
There will not be an Accent-sponsored speaker 
for Women’s History Month, which is celebrated in March. Johnson, who used to organize Women’s History Month at UF when it was planned by a fac-ulty committee, said she remembers the frustration 
of trying to bring sponsored speakers.
“It was a struggle, and from what I hear stu-
dents tell me these days, it’s still a struggle to get Accent will not 
have women’s month speaker
SEE WOMEN, PAGE 4SEE PLATFORM, PAGE 4
CAMPUS
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
One week ago, Jenny Moss 
would have never expected to be in 
a beauty pageant.
But when her sorority, Alpha 
Epsilon Phi, didn’t have a contes-
tant for the annual Miss University 
of Florida Scholarship Pageant, she volunteered to take the spot, getting her ﬁ  rst spray tan and becoming one of 21 women to compete for the crown.
The 22-year-old psychology se-
nior stood on stage at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts as Mary Katherine Fechtel, represent-ing Kappa Delta, was crowned Miss 
UF and won a $1,250 scholarship, a 
crown and gift cards from business-es across Gainesville.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a conﬁ  dence boost 
being a part of this,” Moss said. “It’s not like I’ve wanted this my whole life; it’s been pretty spontaneous. But it’s been a lot of fun.”
About 900 people attended the 
event to watch the women answer questions, model swimsuits and gowns and display an array of tal-ents ranging from speedpainting 
and dancing to taekwondo.
For Brittany Lakhani, a 20-year-
old biology junior competing on 
behalf of Pi Beta Phi, her taekwondo performance was the most nerve-wracking part of the evening. “I haven’t done nunchuks in 
about four or ﬁ  ve years,” she said. “My mom says I make weird faces, so I was trying not to do that and not drop the nunchuks.”
Leslie Morgan, the pageant’s 
executive director, estimated this 
year’s production cost about $15,000.
“Miss University of Florida is 
a constantly growing role,” the 
20-year-old biomedical engineering junior said. “It has become the role of someone who is involved in cam-pus, passionate about student orga-nizations — someone who wants to be involved in the community and UF as a whole.”
Fechtel, whose older sister Eliza-
beth was Miss UF 2014, said it was an honor to succeed her sister.
“I’m honored, and I appreciate 
everything she’s done for the pro-gram,” said the 19-year-old family, youth and community sciences ju-nior. “I hope to follow in her foot-steps.”
Miss UF 2015 crowned, succeeds her sister in positionNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 103 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
73/50SUNNY
57/35SUNNY
45/24SUNNY
59/29RAIN
67/39
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. is March 1. For official rules 
and eligibility, visit gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Facsimiles of Medieval 
Manuscripts on exhibit at Smathers Library GalleryOn view now through March 6 is the “Beast in the Book: Animals in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic Illustrations from the Middle Ages” ex-hibit. The exhibit encour-ages the viewer to reflect 
upon the ways in which the 
illustrators combined high art and imagination along with didactic messages. The Smathers Library Gallery is located on the second floor of Smathers Library on campus. Hours are Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., 
unless otherwise specified. 
Exhibition available online at exhibits.uflib.ufl.edu/beasts.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college students, especially when struggling with a queer 
identity as a woman on top 
of work, classes and intern-ships. Finding opportunities to socialize with other queer women and release stress is rare. LGBT Affairs is of-fering a weekly discussion group that will get you con-nected with other queer la-
dies in the area to chat, hang 
out and learn more about yourself and others. It is at 7:30 p.m. every Wednesday in Peabody Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration is now open 
for Yes Means Yes, an in-
terdisciplinary, interac-tive, non-credit, five-week, student-facilitated seminar that encourages meaning-ful, engaging discussions on consent and sexuality. Make your campus safer, have din-ner on us AND increase your 
sexual satisfaction! Meets 
Thursday evenings March 12 through April 9, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. For more information and to register, go to gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/striveWHAT’S HAPPENING?
City Election voter registra-
tion deadline extended
The deadline to register for the 2015 City of Gainesville elections has been extended to midnight today due to  Presidents Day. The Supervisor of Elections Office, located at 111 SE First Ave., is open and accepting applications Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. There is an after-hours drop-off box located by the front door. Voters can verify and update their registration status at the Vote Alachua web-site.
GatorNights
Jay Gatsby cordially invites ev-
eryone to the Mardi Gras party of the century on Friday from 
8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz 
Union. Swing dance the night away with live music from Gainesville Big Band, dress the part in flapper headbands and learn your fortune from a palm reader, all while enjoying Mardi Gras food. Watch the block-buster movie “Interstellar” in 
the Reitz Union Auditorium at 
8 and 10:45 p.m. It’s always free with a Gator 1 Card.
Disc Golf tournament
Register for the Disc Golf tour-nament, which will be played on the 18-hole disc golf course at Lake Wauburg’s South Shore 
Feb. 21. The tournament will 
have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three divisions: Men’s Amateur, Women’s Amateur and Advanced. The top three participants in each 
division will receive a prize. 
There will also be two contests, 
Longest Drive and Closest to 
the Pin, during the event. The 
winners of each of these con-tests will also receive a prize. To register, visit rsconnect.rec-sports.ufl.edu.
‘Be a Game Changer’ Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, the 
Women’s Student Association 
and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are ex-cited to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video contest. Help educate UF on how to inter-vene to end sexual violence. What better way to teach than by doing? So show us your best 
bystander scenarios in a public 
service announcement video format and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for submission Hispanic Latino Collegiate 
ForumThe Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures is hosting the 15th Biennial Hispanic Latino Collegiate Forum themed “Tu y Yo, Together We Can!” from March 19 to 21. The forum in-
cludes wonderful speakers 
and multiple workshops that focus on how students can un-derstand their role within their communities before becoming involved in social-justice ef-forts and social engagement. We encourage you to register online at ihlc.multicultural.ufl.
edu/2015fhlcf/ for $30. For 
more information come talk to us at La Casita or visit the website.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nine blocks of University Av-
enue will be closed Sunday as 
Gainesville residents and students listen to live music, swing fencing swords and enjoy the flavor of local 
establishments.
The event, called Active Streets, 
will transform the area between 
West Sixth Street and Northeast 
Boulevard into a place where people 
can interact with one another and lo-
cal organizations.
The Active Streets Alliance will 
host the event, closing off the road 
from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. “to raise awareness for bringing people back into the streets,” said Kimberly Vac-ca, an Active Streets volunteer sur-veyor and UF urban and regional planning graduate student.
Vendors are asked to provide free 
services and activities, like yoga, Zumba, sidewalk-chalk doodling and taste-testing, said Joseph Floyd, the event’s co-chair.
“Instead of selling a lot of stuff 
or just sitting out handing out pam-phlets, what we want to do is actu-ally provide or create experiences 
for the participants,” Floyd said.
In October, the group tested out 
Open Streets, the same event on a smaller scale. The pilot event at-
tracted more than 6,000 people and featured 47 businesses and organi-zations. This year, Floyd said he pre-dicts at least 10,000 people and more than 80 businesses will participate in the event.
It will cost about $18,000 to put 
on the event, Floyd said. However, if the 10 bands, vendors and equip-ment donors were compensated for time and services, he said the event would easily cost more than $40,000.
Floyd said he had been research-
ing Open Streets while his co-chair, Shawn Webber, developed an idea for Cyclovia, an event that allows 
cyclists and pedestrians to be safe in 
the streets. The Florida Department of Transportation tweeted that they wanted a city to host a Cyclovia-type event, and Floyd and Webber partnered to make Open Streets pos-sible. The department and the City of Gainesville are two of the main funders.
Last year, most participants were 
residents, Vacca said, but she thinks more students will attend this year.
“I think it’ll be a good way for 
students to kind of connect with Gainesville and see, you know, what else is out there,” she said.
At last year’s Open Streets, Floyd 
said he was happy to see people in-
teracting with strangers.
“That’s the beauty of it, right?” 
he said. “That’s where the commu-
nity comes in. You see things that you wouldn’t necessarily see, and they’re all wonderful.” 
To learn about Active Streets, 
visit activestreetsalliance.org.Active Streets to close 
road to cars in downtown Gainesville on Sunday
KRISTINE JANATA
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF alumnus will be returning to UF as the new chairman of 
the Entomology and Nematology department in Fall 2015.
Blair Siegfried, an entomology professor at the University of 
Nebraska-Lincoln, will become the department’s new chairman 
on Sept. 1. He will take the place of John Capinera, who is retiring 
Feb. 28 after serving as the department chair for 28 years, accord-
ing to an Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences press release.
Director of IFAS human resources, Mary 
Morgan, wrote in an email Siegfried will have a 
starting salary of $200,000.
Siegfried received his Masters in entomol-
ogy from UF in 1984. He said he is excited to come back to UF.
He said he plans to bring his current research 
on pesticide resistance to Florida.
“The position at Florida certainly provides that opportunity, 
and there’s a well-established and very productive group of peo-ple in the department,” Siegfried said.
Jack Payne, IFAS senior vice president for Agriculture and Nat-
ural Resources, played a vital role in choosing Siegfried.
A national search narrowed down three finalists for the depart-
ment chair position, all of whom participated in a full-campus in-
terview and met with the department. Siegfried was the popular 
candidate among all of them, Payne said.
“I always feel good when my choice agrees with the faculty’s 
choice,” he said, “and in this case, he was an overwhelming choice for all of this.”IFAS finds new insect 
dept chair in alumnus
Siegfried
CONOR SOPER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new device for smartphones 
boasts the ability to test for HIV 
and syphilis with results in just 
15 minutes.
The device connects to a user’s 
phone through the audio jack and 
works through a user interface to 
determine the results of the test, 
Tassaneewan Laksanasopin, the lead author of the study on the device, wrote in an email.
A video posted to the Sia Lab 
YouTube account shows how the device works. To start, anyone using the device will need to dis-infect and prick his or her finger 
to get a blood sample for the test. 
That blood sample is then insert-ed into a disposable plastic con-tainer that attaches to a microflu-idic cassette that then attaches to 
the smartphone.
The device acts as the hard-
ware for fluid control, optical 
measurement and data commu-
nication to the smartphone, Lak-
sanasopin said.
Currently, there is an app for 
only the iPhone operating sys-tem, but there is another in the works for Android operating sys-tems, she said. The cost to make the device is $34 plus about $2 for 
each test cassette.
“Our device is low-cost, por-
table and simple to use which can 
take to any rural areas in devel-oping countries where access to 
healthcare is limited,” said Lak-
sanasopin, a Columbia Univer-sity Ph.D. student.
She said the diagnosis and 
treatment of sexually transmit-ted diseases can help prevent mother-to-child transmission and minimize any complications in pregnant women.
Since 2007, Sia Lab has been 
working on point-of-care tests for HIV and syphilis.
The device took about a year 
to get a working prototype to test in Rwanda, she said. The study was funded by the Saving Lives at Birth program through the U.S. Agency for International Devel-
opment.
The device is not yet in-
tended for consumer use. But in 
Gainesville, testing options are 
available to students through the Student Health Care Center. 
Students who aren’t showing symptoms can go to the Student Health Care Center for free STD testing with the Get Yourself Tested clinic, a partnership be-tween the SHCC and the Alachua County Health Department.
folks to understand how important Women’s History Month 
is, along with all the other months we celebrate here on cam-pus,” she said.  
Diamond Delancy, a UF public relations junior and 
president of the UF Women’s Student Association, said she 
reached out to Accent with the idea to bring Raven-Symoné 
to campus in March.
Delancy, 20, said although she first reached out in Au-
gust, she had difficulty meeting with Accent. There were emails and discussions, but in the end, Accent chose not to sponsor Symoné and failed to provide an explanation, she said.
“It was kind of a slap in the face,” Delancy said. “It was 
very hard to work with Accent overall, especially since 
they’re not very interested in bringing a female speaker to 
campus for Women’s History Month or at any time.”
However, Accent is co-sponsoring former first lady Ro-salynn Carter, who will speak at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on March 31.
After reaching out to other student groups, Delancy said 
she was able to secure a speaker in March without Accent.
“What does it say when you never bring any women 
speakers to a campus dominated by female students?” Delancy said.
Independent student Sen. Preston Jones responded to 
Johnson’s tweet Sunday, saying he hoped Accent would work with WSA to bring a speaker for Women’s History Month. 
The political science freshman said he is not criticizing 
Accent, however.
“It’s really hard to bring in important speakers from their 
respective communities without Accent’s help,” Jones, 18, said.
Corey Flayman, chairman of Accent, said Monday he 
was unaware of the Twitter conversation.
“We love to partner with different student groups here 
on campus, and we were eager to work with the Women’s Student Association,” Flayman said. “There’s over 1,000 student groups here at UF, and our goal is to work with as many student groups as we can to bring speakers here.”
Flayman mentioned the recent event featuring Daymond 
John during Black History Month and listed past collabora-
tions with the Jewish Student Union, Asian American Stu-
dent Union and Pride Student Union.
“I know (WSA) had approached us for securing a speaker 
for Women’s History Month, and we were very excited to work with them,” he said. “We weren’t able to find a speak-er for both our purposes and goals, and it’s unfortunate.”
Flayman said Carter’s appearance is unrelated to Wom-
en’s History Month and there is no finalized schedule.
Johnson said she started the Twitter discussion as a re-
minder that speakers of diverse backgrounds shouldn’t be limited to the respective months of celebration.
“It doesn’t have to be limited to Women’s History Month,” 
she said. “One of the things that I would like Accent to real-ize is that it’s not the only time of year they should sponsor female speakers here on campus.”4, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Joseph Michaels (left), Swamp Party’s candidate for Student Body president, and 
Tia Smart, Swamp Party’s candidate for Student Body vice president, release the party’s platform to a crowd of students on Turlington Plaza on Monday morning.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is one of the smartphone dongles that can test for HIV and syphilis. Funded by the Saving Lives at Birth program through the U.S. Agency for International Development, the device costs $34 to make, plus about $2 for each test cassette.
WOMEN , from page 1Former first lady Rosalynn Carter to come March 31, not for WHM
Elections are Feb. 24 and Feb. 25
and affordability for students.
Other goals on the party’s platform were on-
line voting, a 24-hour Marston Science Library, expanded printing to Marston and Library West, gender neutral bathrooms on campus and ap-pointment of a chief diversity officer within the UF administration.
The party also wants to decrease student fees 
for graduate students, lobby against tuition hikes and lobby for Bright Futures Scholarships to ex-tend to summer for students.Christ said during platform generation many 
students requested that Marston extend its hours of operation because Library West often gets crowded. 
He emphasized that Access Party wants to 
make SG more transparent for students. The party proposed having the SG financial system open to all students so they can see where their activity and service fees go.
“We feel that there is a big disconnection be-
tween the Student Body and Student Government officials,” he said.
One idea on the party’s platform to increase 
student involvement with SG officials, such as student senators, is to require senators to hold monthly town hall meetings and have weekly of-fice hours for their constituents.
Christ said the party will release specific points 
as campaigning continues.
Elections are Feb. 24 and 25 from 8:30 a.m. to 
8:30 p.m.PLATFORMS , from page 1
“We feel that there is a big 
disconnection between the Student 
Body and Student Government 
officials.”
Michael Christ
Access campaign managerNATIONALNew smartphone device gives 15-minutes results for STD tests ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF alumni will be rolling 
onto campus in a giant hot dog and 
peanut.
The Wienermobile and its sister 
vehicle, the NUTmobile, will be on 
campus to recruit student drivers 
today, Wednesday and Monday. Students interested in being “Hot-doggers” or “Peanutters,” the ve-
hicles’ drivers and public relations 
specialists, can attend an informa-
tion session from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
in the Career Resource Center con-ference room Feb. 24.
Being a Hotdogger or a Peanut-
ter offers a “good supply of warm and fuzzies,” said Mateo Velez, a UF ﬁ  nance alumnus and Peanutter. 
His favorite part of the job is 
making people happy.
“It feels like you’re making a 
positive difference in the world,” the 23-year-old said.    
There are three NUTmobiles 
and six Wienermobiles in the na-tion, and the drivers are recent col-lege graduates with “an appetite for adventure,” according to Oscar Meyer’s website.
Applicants go through two 
rounds of interviews, Velez said, with one on campus and the oth-er in Chicago for Peanutters and Madison, Wisconsin, for Hotdog-gers.
Velez, who goes by “Mateo 
Macadamia,” was recruited to the ﬁ  rst NUTmobile team to travel the western U.S.
“I was really excited to bring 
this giant peanut on wheels to a 
part of the country that had liter-
ally never seen it,” Velez said.
From big cities to small towns, 
the vehicles travel across the entire country.
For 15 years, Spencer Smud, a 
24-year-old UF recreation, parks and tourism alumnus, wanted to be a Hotdogger.
He originally saw the Wiener-
mobile when his sister, who was also a Hotdogger, drove it to his elementary school. Smud is now known as “Spicy Salami Spencer.”
“It’s always been a dream of 
mine,” he said.
Smud said he learned to com-municate with others through UF organizations such as the Florida Cicerones, which was helpful be-cause the vehicles are essentially traveling public relations ﬁ  rms.
For students interested in join-
ing one of the mobile’s teams, Velez recommends using puns.
“We deﬁ  nitely do go nuts for 
puns,” the Peanutter said.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Spencer Smud, the 24-year-old “Hotdogger” who drives one of the Wie-
nermobiles, poses for a photo in front of the hot-dog-shaped vehicle.
CAMPUSWienermobile, NUTmobile visit UF
 BUT SOME VETERANS THINK IT WON’T HELP.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College introduced 
a new service aimed at helping 
veterans ﬁ  nd jobs, but some veterans say the tool may not be all that useful.
On Friday, Santa Fe an-
nounced a free service available in Career Coach that lists jobs 
relevant to veterans’ military 
experience. The tool uses in-formation such as salary, local job outlook data and real-time postings to help veterans ﬁ  nd career paths, according to the press release. It also links vet-erans to relevant and local de-grees or certiﬁ  cate programs.
The service allows veterans 
to communicate with advisers about career options and the steps necessary to choose and achieve them, according to the press release.
While Santa Fe military 
veterans say the program is of some use, there are still prob-lems preventing veterans from getting jobs.
Christopher Imler, a U.S. Air 
Force veteran and 23-year-old Santa Fe botany sophomore, said veterans who served in di-rect combat roles, such as riﬂ  e-men, have a more difﬁ  cult time transferring into the civilian workforce.
“When you get out, there’s 
not a huge job market for that unless you’re trying to get into 
private security,” Imler said.
Air Force and U.S. Navy 
veterans, Imler said, are more 
likely to transfer easily into the civilian workforce than those who served in the Army or Ma-rine Corps, which are made up of a larger number of riﬂ  emen.
He said Santa Fe’s program 
will be helpful in looking at vet-erans’ traits, such as leadership skills or problem solving, and matching them to suitable civil-ian jobs.
Imler said the program aims 
to inform employers that a riﬂ  e-man’s job was more than just using a gun.
“Their job wasn’t just to pull 
a trigger,” he said. “It was also to lead, to be a manager, to be an effective organizer.”
Phillip Snarr, a Santa Fe stu-
dent who served in the Navy for 24 years and was deployed around the world, said many veterans leaving the military are discovering that civilian employers favor degrees over experience.
“I think civilian employers 
undervalue veterans’ experi-ence,” the 49-year-old psychol-ogy freshman said. “I don’t un-derstand that.”Santa Fe introduces 
site to help veterans on their job huntsReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org50% YES
50% NO
52 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: For Women’s History Month, who would 
you rather go see: a former first lady or Raven-Symoné?
Monday’s question: Do you know any 
baby Gators?Past lynchings are 
still part of our 
present
On a hot, muggy, summer day in Georgia, two black couples were seized by a mob of white men. They were taken to a clearing overlooking a nearby river — the 
Apalachee, some 15 miles from where the University of Georgia 
stands today. There, they were tied up and shot to death — the 
coroner’s report estimated they were shot as many as 60 times. 
One of the women was pregnant; though it isn’t certain, some 
reports claim the unborn child was ripped out from her body.
No one was ever prosecuted.
It’s a story with elements all too familiar to those which have 
looked at American history in the Jim Crow period. But that’s 
where these stories seem to stay: nestled comfortably in the pag-
es of history textbooks and old newspaper clippings, just within reach yet comfortably out of sight.
That’s the way we’ve dealt with our history of lynching for a 
while, anyway. But reality isn’t so easy to hide from. That partic-
ular mass lynching occurred in 1946, which wasn’t all that long 
ago. Plenty of people are alive today who were alive when those couples were lynched. The FBI has reopened its investigation of 
the lynching, and it is currently questioning several men in their 
80s and 90s and gathering evidence about their involvement.
We aren’t as far removed from lynchings as we’d like to 
think.
A report published last week by the Equal Justice Initiative 
showed nearly 4,000 black people were lynched in the South from 1877 to 1950, which is 700 more names than earlier esti-mates. The report calls these murders “racial terror lynchings.” Much like Islamic State group’s execution videos, these lynch-ings were public events — dramatic and tragic. They weren’t simply isolated murders carried out by a handful of angry young men — they were announced in newspapers and com-memorated with postcards. The theatrical ferocity of these mur-ders, that they occurred independently of crime and execution rates, that they were used to reinforce the racial status quo — all suggest lynchings were used to terrorize the black community.
It’s a legacy that’s been largely ignored but shouldn’t be any 
longer. The Equal Justice Initiative is campaigning to put memo-rials and markers in the thousands of sites where people were lynched. It’s a legacy relevant to us, no matter what our identity; Alachua county had the second-highest number of lynchings in Florida. We live an hour away from Rosewood, a once-pop -
ulated black town that was raided and burned to ashes by white mobs in 1923.
It’s something that still haunts everything around us, from 
the woods and one-light towns right up to the biggest cities. We hope EJI succeeds in its efforts to memorialize lynchings. It’s absolutely essential that we wrestle with the darkest parts of our history and confront this legacy.NY Fashion Week: Walk in my Yeezys
Last Thursday in New York City, Adidas let down 
its front during its fashion show to let everyone know that Yeezy Season was approaching once 
again.
With this in mind, it only made sense that the main 
attraction of the show was Kanye West. 
He revealed his highly anticipated sneaker collabo-
ration with Adidas by having numerous models line up in a cult-esque fashion while wearing the sneakers, called the Yeezy 750 Boosts. 
These shoes are suede, have a dynamic strap and 
have received positive reviews early into their release.
The sneakers are the successors to West’s previous 
collaborations with Nike, which include the Air Yeezy series and Red Octobers. 
Both of these shoes have been highly regarded and 
coveted since their release. Currently, the Air Yeezys and Red Octobers are collectables that can sell for thou-sands of dollars. 
However, due to creative differences with Nike, 
West took his fashion sensibilities elsewhere, and in 
December 2013 he announced that he had signed a deal 
with Adidas.
Hype for the sneakers built up to their release in 
New York, where West personally delivered the Yeezy 
750 Boosts to the die-hard fans who bought them. There 
were fans crying with joy upon receiving the shoes, and some had camped outside the store before the release.
I, too, am a die-hard West fan, but it is nonsensical 
that people would go to such great lengths for a pair of 
shoes. 
Whether it is Jordans or Yeezys, I cannot imagine 
camping outside a store for days and paying hundreds 
of dollars for just a pair of sneakers. Yet this happens on 
a consistent basis with name-brand sneakers.
Some of the most famous instances include the Jor-
dan Retro release. Releases like this are known to have violent consequences. People 
have been assaulted — even murdered — for the sake of col-
lectable sneakers all around the 
country.
Not everyone at the release 
is there to get new shoes to wear, either. Some people 
purchase the sneakers to resell them to those desperate 
enough to buy them for thousands of dollars on eBay and various other websites. 
I cannot imagine paying thousands of dollars for 
sneakers perhaps because I am an economically chal-
lenged college student.
I wonder if the people who purchase shoes for thou-
sands of dollars realize that Foot Locker exists, and you 
can get shoes for much cheaper at any retail outlet. I 
also wonder if people who collect sneakers realize they 
only have one pair of feet. How many shoes can one possibly need?
I honestly think the Yeezy 750 Boosts are just as 
good-looking as West’s previous sneakers, but I also 
fear the release will have the same consequences as 
their predecessors. 
In a couple years, these shoes will be sold for thou-
sands of dollars. People will be robbed, assaulted and 
potentially worse for the sake of these shoes.
I definitely understand the aesthetic value of nice 
sneakers. I wore Air Yeezys to my senior prom and my 
graduation. They are definitely good-looking sneakers. But I didn’t pay thousands of dollars or camp outside of 
a store for them. 
I hope nobody will harm another person over the 
Yeezy 750 Boosts on their global release date, and I en-
courage those who decide to camp out for them to be as 
safe as possible.
Emanuel Griffin is a UF journalism freshman. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOREmmanuel 
Griffin
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
How many tweets does it 
take to ruin a life? Ap-parently, just one.
Last week, The New York 
Times published an article about the damaging effects of public shaming on social media. The 
column, written by author and 
journalist Jon Ronson, followed up with Justine Sacco — whose infamous tweet got her ﬁ  red, destroyed her reputation and 
inspired death and rape threats.
Sacco, who at the time was the senior di-
rector for corporate communications for me-
dia and Internet company InterActiveCorp, 
posted the tweet minutes before her ﬂ  ight to 
South Africa: “Going to Africa. Hope I don’t get AIDS. Just kidding. I’m white!”
After the tweet was promptly picked up 
by Gawker, social media exploded with hate 
and disgust for Sacco. Twitter users around 
the world used the hashtag #HasJustine-LandedYet, gleefully anticipating the mo-ment when Sacco would exit her ﬂ  ight and 
realize that she had been ﬁ  red, humiliated 
and attacked by millions of strangers. 
Welcome to the age of public shaming on 
the Internet.
For centuries, people have used shaming 
and humiliation tactics to punish others for culturally unacceptable behaviors. Though many people today would view these prac-tices as medieval and cruel, social media has 
brought back public shaming in full force. In 
fact, it is easier than ever before to watch and participate in the shaming of another person — all you have to do is type, click and enjoy the show.
Shaming someone on social media may 
seem like the fastest way to win justice, but it isn’t very different from grabbing a pitch-fork and joining an angry mob. Someone says 
something stupid, and suddenly everyone 
wishes that person the worst possible fate. As the victim’s career and reputation is de-stroyed, the mob gives itself a righteous pat on the back.
To be clear, there’s no question that Sacco 
made a mistake. As a public relations student, I was especially appalled at Sacco’s tweet. Even after I learned that she was only trying to poke fun at her own privi-lege, I thought it was incredibly careless for a PR executive to 
joke about AIDS and race. But 
instead of using the situation to inspire meaningful dialogue, social media users focused on 
personally attacking, threaten-
ing and demonizing Sacco.
It is astonishingly easy to 
hurl vicious insults at a stranger on the Internet. In 2012, Lind-
sey Stone posted a photo of herself on Face-book seemingly mocking a sign at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Arlington National Cemetery. According to The New 
York Times, the photo was meant to be a joke 
about disobeying signs.
As a result, more than 30,000 people 
joined a Facebook group dedicated to getting her ﬁ  red. She was. Stone, who worked at a 
nonproﬁ  t that helped adults with disabilities, 
was called a “self-professed douchebag” and a “waste of oxygen.”
The photo was undoubtedly tasteless, in-
sensitive and downright stupid. It was insult-ing to fallen soldiers and their families, and she should have expected some backlash. But a tasteless and insensitive action does not jus-tify thousands of people targeting one person 
and rooting for her failure.
In response to Ronson’s article, many 
publications spoke out about the issue of 
public shaming online. Jezebel (owned by 
Gawker Media) published an article bashing 
The New York Times for its sympathetic ap-proach to people who are humiliated on so-cial media.
The author argued that people who make 
stupid mistakes online deserve everything they get because “the professional and emo-tional responses may be the only damn thing that ﬁ  nally give these people the one thing 
they don’t have: empathy.”
It’s a pretty powerful opinion, until you 
realize how hypocritical it is. If public sham-
ing on social media was truly about teaching people empathy, then maybe scorning and 
humiliating strangers for their mistakes isn’t 
the best way to show it.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Online shaming is shameful 
itself, only ruins strangers’ livesColumn
Ask anyone older 
than 35 and feeling judgmental — our 
generation is materialistic. We love owning and buying things. We adore massive quantities of, well, stuff.
Personally, I’m very sus-
ceptible to materialism. I get emotionally attached to items very eas-ily.
From technological gadgets to cloth-
ing to simple knick-knacks, my genera-
tion has already started collecting items 
that are meaningful for their sentimental or monetary value.
How many times have you worn a 
shirt or an old pair of shoes that are spe-
cial to you because you own them, be-
cause they hold a comforting story in the folds of their fabric?
Of course, there are problems that 
come with being a generation as ma-
terialistic as ours, but at this point it is 
pretty much a fact. So here is a thing to consider: When your life is built out of things, what happens when you come to 
college?
For most of my life, I lived in one 
house, in one neighborhood, in one 
town.
Packing up everything I owned into 
the car to come to UF was a sobering experience. My bags barely ﬁ  t into my mom’s Prius, but there it was: everything in my life had been packed neatly into a compact, fuel-efﬁ  cient, hybrid vehicle.
It’s easy to feel insigniﬁ  cant like that. 
It’s easy to feel swept away, pulled un-der by the tide of anonymity that rises as you drive up to college, as you move into your dorm for the ﬁ  rst time, as you sit in 
your ﬁ  rst lecture.
Boxing up my life that ﬁ  rst time, and 
every time after in the four years of mov-
ing from place to place, reminds me of a serious lesson. In college, and for most 
of your young adult life, you live a tran-
sient existence.
You move every year. You might even move every semester. 
From dorm to apartment, from apartment to sum-
mer housing, from your 
hometown to your ﬁ  rst new house, your years in college carry with them a daunting 
feeling of rootlessness.
Our generation, with all 
of our materialistic tendencies and need 
for items to help reafﬁ  rm our connec-tions with places and people, occupies 
an in-between space while in school. We 
drift aimlessly from place to place, trying 
to discover who we are and where our next home will be.
Next year, I’ll be moving to apart-
ment-style living. Over the summer I’ll 
be traveling, and the little box on my 
to-do list about securing my living ac-commodations remains ominously un-checked.
It’s a scary thing to see the material 
of one’s life packed away into just a few cardboard containers. All that I am and all the roots I’ve planted can be packed away into a couple of boxes, an over-
sized suitcase and a minifridge.
However, even in this ﬁ  eld of ano-
nymity, there are seeds of the future.
It’s true that we each occupy such a 
tiny space in the overall existence of UF 
and the world. But remember — just be-cause your life is small doesn’t mean it’s insigniﬁ  cant.
Our small space is ﬂ  exible. Our few 
boxes and bags are portable, expectant of a greater time yet to come. There is a future unrolling in front of every student at UF.
College is a time of transitions. We 
may want to safeguard ourselves in ma-
terialism, but we should remember that 
what we’ve accomplished and the re-
lationships we’ve built now are all that we’ve needed so far in life. These things have the potential for growth.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public 
relations sophomore. Her column appears on Tuesdays.College transience will not 
last, but it’s not a bad thingColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
The 10 members of Gainesville-based band The Savants of Soul pose for a picture. The group will play a 
90-minute set in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom tonight.
CAMPUS
LACY RUBLOFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local band is returning to campus and bringing 
some soul.
The Savants of Soul are partnering with Reitz 
Union Board Entertainment and will perform a free 
concert at 8:30 p.m. today in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom.
The Gainesville-based band has 10 members who 
are committed to the sounds of the 1960s and ‘70s Mo-
town soul. Six of them grew up in Gainesville.
“We’ve got a pretty big following in Gainesville, 
especially the downtown scene, but campus is a place we want more visibility,” said bass guitar player John Gray Shermyen, 25.
Drummer Alexander Klausner, 24, said the band will be playing a set lasting about 90 minutes that fea-tures original material.
The band is hoping the central location will attract 
some new fans.
“I don’t follow (the band) heavily,” said Jessica 
Wang, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore who hopes to attend the concert. “It’s nice that A, it’s free, 
and B, I don’t need to drive anywhere.”
Klausner, Shermyen and singer Justin McKenzie, 
the three founding members of The Savants of Soul, 
were able to grow the band while attending UF and are excited to return to their roots, even if things have changed a bit since their 2012 graduation.
“The Reitz is super different, and I haven’t even 
been gone that long,” Shermyen said. “I feel like every time I come back, there is something new. It’s nice to 
reconnect.”GNV band to bring Motown to UF
 THE TUMOR IS CALLED 
AMELOBLASTOMA.
SHANNON DUDZINSKI
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health had a medical 
breakthrough by using a com-
bination of therapies for the first time to treat a rare oral tumor.   
Anthony Woods of St. Pe-
tersburg, Florida, was diag-nosed as a child with a tumor known as ameloblastoma, which can cause jaw and face abnormalities. Woods was the first patient to receive the treat-ment, which targeted a specific gene mutation, according to a press release.
He was treated by Dr. Fred-
eric J. Kaye, medical co-director of the Thoracic Oncology Pro-gram and co-director of the UF Health Lung Cancer Center.
The treatment comes in the 
form of a daily pill that attacks the specific mutated gene, Kaye said. It contains two drugs: 
Dabrafenib and Trametinib.
Dabrafenib is a small mol-
ecule that specifically binds 
and blocks the mutated gene, which promotes cancer-cell growth. Trametinib is another small molecule that binds and blocks a growth pathway. Kaye said he hopes using dual treat-ments will enhance efficiency and minimize side effects.
The treatment isn’t a stan-
dard recommendation for someone with stage four am-eloblastoma, but after study-ing the mutation, Kaye deter-mined the combination of the two drugs could yield positive results.
Dr. William M. Mendenhall, 
a radiation oncologist at the UF Health Cancer Center special-
izing in head and neck cancers, 
previously treated Woods, meeting him after his first ra-diation treatment about seven years ago, according to the press release. The treatment has considerably reduced the size of the tumors in Woods’ neck and head, Mendenhall said.
“It was actually Dr. Kaye’s 
idea to try this type of chemo-therapy, and a good move in his part,” Mendenhall said. “It is nice to see the treatment working.”
The pill hasn’t been ap-
proved by the Food and Drug Administration yet for this 
specific disease, so extensive 
paperwork had to be done be-fore the doctors could proceed, according to the press release. The next step is to create clini-cal trials of the treatment to get it approved for future use.
“There is a lot of excitement 
about the results … we are in the right direction, but these are still difficult diseases to cure,” Kaye said. “We need to have more creativity in the coming 
years.”
The full results were pub-
lished in the January issue of 
the Journal of the National Can-cer Institute.UF Health develops 
new tumor treatment
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
For the second time during Spring elections, a de-
bate hosted by a student organization was canceled 
due to only one party accepting the invitation.
The UF Hispanic Student Association canceled 
its debate after Swamp Party declined to participate. 
Swamp also declined a debate organized by UF Pride 
Student Union and Women’s Student Association, as well as the Asian American Student Union.
Access Party President Matthew Hoeck said the 
party was looking forward to the debate. But now, “This is another year that students and other student organizations don’t have a platform,” he said.
Hoeck said he feels the debate hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council can’t fully represent all student organizations.
The president of HSA, Liana Guerra, said she was 
disappointed the debate had to be canceled.
“They’re not being transparent to student organi-
zations and students as a whole,” the 22-year-old UF economics senior said.
She said the goal of the debate was to engage stu-
dents in both parties, but with only one party accept-ing the offer, that goal couldn’t be met.
Swamp Party President Ricky Salabarria wrote a 
statement explaining the party’s reason for declining.
“We only wanted to participate in the debate en-
dorsed by the supervisor of elections,” he said. “We feel the FLC debate is all encompassing, and will fully represent the diverse students across campus.”Swamp declines; debate canceled
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal woman Sunday afternoon after she reportedly spit on and threw a jar at a stranger inside a Publix.
Just after 4 p.m., Milagros Bea-
ton Betancourt, 52, was shopping in the Publix, at 3930 SW Archer Road, when she began to argue with shopper Heather Jimenez, according to a police report.Betancourt grabbed Jimenez’s 
arm, spit on her and tried to throw a glass jar at her. When Jimenez blocked the glass jar with her arm and it shattered on the ground, Betancourt ran away from the store, according to the report.
When police found Betancourt 
at 3700 Archer Road, she told them she didn’t speak English. 
She waved her arms and 
seemed agitated, according to the report. Authorities asked Betan-court to walk to a police car and move away from the lane, but she resisted, according to the report. 
Betancourt eventually had to 
be handcuffed on the ground, according to the report. Police ar-rested Betancourt on charges of 
aggravated assault, simple battery 
and resisting arrest.
Officers took Betancourt to the 
Alachua County Jail. She was re-leased on her own recognizance just before noon Monday.
Police: Woman spat, threw jar ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
UF is teeming with brilliant 
people working on cutting-edge technology that saves lives, reveals 
mysteries and solves problems. 
We’re here to share the latest in UF’s advancements, research and studies.
Alzheimer’sUF uncovered that anti-inflam-
matory processes may actually trigger Alzheimer’s, despite what previous research has found.
Anti-inflammatory processes 
might cause the buildup of sticky clumps of protein that form plaques in the brain. These plaques block brain cells’ ability to commu-nicate, a major characteristic of the illness.
The finding suggests that Al-
zheimer treatments may need to be tailored to patients depending on which forms of Apolipoprotein E, a major risk factor for Alzheim-er’s disease, these patients carry in their genes.
LupusA new treatment may reverse 
the effects of the most common type of lupus, and it is showing promising results after undergoing early testing at UF Health.
The study used human cells 
and mouse models, and it involved 
regulating metabolism in cells, af-
fecting how lupus develops in the body. It has yet to undergo clinical trial in humans.
In lupus, specialized white 
blood cells known as CD4 T-cells use mostly glucose, a type of sim-ple sugar, for energy metabolism. 
Researchers blocked glucose 
metabolism by using the common 
type 2 diabetes drug metformin 
and a glucose inhibitor. The CD4 T-cells returned to normal activity and the symptoms of lupus were reversed.UF makes Alzheimer’s 
and Lupus discoveries THEY ARE LOSING FOOD 
AND HABITAT SPACE.
BRIGITTE STAMBURY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Fewer orange specks are making 
their way across the blue sky.
Because of habitat destruction 
and a shortage of milkweed, mon-
arch butterflies are disappearing.
Every year, millions of North 
American monarchs make a 3,500-
mile migration from northern Unit-
ed States and Canada to California and Mexico. 
At their peak population in the 
mid-1990s, there were more than 
1 billion of the butterflies, said 
Thomas C. Emmel, director of the McGuire Center of Lepidoptera and Biodiversity at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History.
Twenty years later, their migrat-
ing population has plunged to about 
30 million, Emmel said.
For Emmel, viewing millions of 
butterflies take flight at once is like watching “the bursting of a bomb; the explosion of fireworks off of a tree.”
Since 1981, Emmel has gone to 
Mexico every year to see the butter-flies in their hibernating grounds.
“When they go up into the blue 
sky, you’re going to have a true 
orange and blue event: the orange 
monarchs against the beautiful blue sky,” he said.
In recent years, the monarchs have suffered habitat destruction in their hibernating grounds in Mexico 
and their larvae feeding grounds in 
the Midwest, Emmel said. The loss is harming their ability to reproduce.
In Mexico, two hibernating grounds were being logged for fire-wood, opening the forests and high 
mountains to winter winds and 
snow storms that could kill the mon-archs, he said. In the Midwest, her-bicides and genetically engineered crops are major contributors to the loss of the milkweed plant, the but-
terfly’s food source.
On Feb. 9, the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service announced they were 
allocating $3.2 million to the preser-vation of the monarch butterfly and its habitats, Emmel said. Two mil-
lion dollars will go toward paying 
farmers and ranchers not to use ge-netically modified crops and to not spray anything that would disturb the milkweed.
The other $1.2 million will be 
matched by both the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation and the National Wildlife Federation. These 
funds will be used to encourage 
planting milkweed in backyard and school gardens, as well as in county and city parks.
“We have the pleasure of see-
ing them here every summer, but we won’t see them much longer if something dramatic isn’t done,” Emmel said.
Although the help is coming 
from a national level, local organiza-tions are also lending a hand.
Ryan Fessenden, assistant man-
ager of rainforest operation at the 
Florida Museum, said the butterfly 
garden behind the museum is called a Monarch Waystation, which in-cludes plants that support the entire 
monarch life cycle.
The pesticide-free gardens re-
quire milkweed for caterpillars and 
nectar plants for butterflies, as well as protection from the weather, 
predators and maintenance. The 
museum’s goal is to help in what-ever small way it can.
“Give them a home,” Fessenden 
said. “Give back a little of what, es-sentially, we have taken.”   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Premier Auto Collision Experts
Insurance claims
Domestic & 
foreign cars
Certified technicians
352-371-0215 33 SE 13th Rd. gt-motocars.netShow a Santa Fe 
or UF ID for a 
student or 
faculty discount
AP Photo
In this photo, a monarch butterfly feeds on a Duranta flower in Houston. The federal government pledged 
$3.2 million Monday to help save the monarch butterfly. The species has recently experienced a 90 per -
cent decline in population.
NATIONALEnvironmental loss causing monarch butterfly disappearance TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    2-19-15-5-2
Luxurious Jackson Square2BR/2.5BA TownhouseDouble balcony; One left!$1600/mo. 352-505-5049www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-10-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $99995 Toyota Camry $125088 Honda Civic $125095 Pontiac Bonneville $1300352-338-1999                      4-22-71-1202 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Blueprint LSAT is hiring! $15/hour
Blueprint LSAT is hiring students to flyer
on and around the UFL campus for 2-5 
hours a week (make your own schedule). 
Flyers will be provided. Very flexible!
2-18-15-5-14
Signature Tutoring Services is looking for  great tutors to work with students between February and March. Our students need tutoring in all subject areas through the AP level. The tutor will be responsible for teach-ing the curriculum provided by the students' full-time schools, and for ensuring that the students are completing and submitting their academic work on time.  Students and tutors work in person or via Skype.Send your resume toMgiglio@signaturetutoring Signaturetutoring.com          2-20-15-5-14
looking for p/t cleaner w/experience who has reliable transportation, &valid DL/insur -
ance...$8/hr ...if interested please call 352-214-0868 Caleitha     2-20-4-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
J.D. Tomlinson and the UF 
men’s golf team attribute their recent success to a change in culture. Read the story on page 14.Haeger honored by SEC
UF softball senior Lauren Haeger was named the Southeastern Conference Pitcher of the Week, the conference announced Monday.RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer@RagjUF
Luck is seen by some as a cop-out. 
But for the confounding 2015 Flor-
ida Gators basketball team, luck does 
help to explain how this season has 
gone so far south. 
Florida has had its last seven games 
decided by a total of 19 points and are 
4-7 in games this season decided by 
ﬁ  ve points or less. To his credit, coach Billy Donovan isn’t just blaming lady luck.
“You can sit there and  say bad luck, 
snake-bitten, all those kinds of things. I’ve never, ever believed that,” Dono-van said. “I believe that you put your-self in position – maybe if you want to 
use the word lucky – to be lucky. And I 
think if you go back, and certainly I’ve analyzed all those games ... it’s always been somebody from the other team that’s made a shot against us.”
Sometimes guys make shots. That’s what Miami’s Angel Rodri-
guez did, and it’s what Georgetown’s D’Vauntes Smith-Rivera did. 
It’s what Ole Miss’s Stefan Moody 
did and it’s what Jacob Kurtz unfortu-nately did against Florida State. 
Sometimes guys don’t make shots. 
Megan Reeves / Alligator
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 62-61 loss to Ole 
Miss on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. The Gators are 4-7 this sea-son in games decided by ﬁ  ve points or less.
Luck not on Gators’ side with regular 
season starting to wind down
The Florida baseball team simply dominated last 
weekend.
Granted, No. 6 UF played a Rhode Island team 
that spent most of its Spring practicing indoors due to 
inclement weather, but a 37-5 showing over the course of three games is nothing short of spectacular.
The game looked fun again 
for the more than 3,000 fans who ﬁ  lled McKethan Stadi-um each day, fans who had 
become accustomed to see-
ing Florida make a living on bloopers to the shallow out-ﬁ  eld and try to win the game with its bunting.
However, there is one as-
pect of the college game that changed this year that could be playing a major factor in Florida’s recent of-fensive outburst — the ball.
In an attempt to increase offensive production in 
college baseball, the NCAA adopted the use of a new, ﬂ  at-seamed baseball — closer to the one used in Major 
League Baseball — for the 2015 NCAA Tournament.
According to research conducted by the Washington 
State University, the ﬂ  at-seamed ball travels on average 
about 20 feet farther than the previously used raised-seam ball, meaning balls that would normally reach the 
warning track and would either be ﬂ  youts or extra-base 
hits in previous years have an increased opportunity to go over the wall.
Well, NCAA, if the opening weekend in the South-
eastern Conference was any indication, you got your wish.
While the SEC was not required to use the new ball 
during the regular season, the league made the switch.
And through three games, the SEC — and the Gators 
— has reaped dividends.
As a whole, the conference hit 34 home runs this New baseball 
giving UF, SEC offensive boost
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer@graham_hack24
Coaching a team with too much depth cam be a good 
problem to have, but it still creates a dilemma.
With so many talented athletes separated by the slim-
mest of margins, making the right choice to ﬁ  ll the limited 
number of spots in the lineup is tough.
Florida coach Rhonda Faehn has had to make those 
types of choices this season, but her job is about to get 
even tougher.
Junior Bridget Sloan is expected to return to the bars lineup this week against No. 3 LSU, the ﬁ  rst step in her 
comeback from an ankle injury that has sidelined her since the team’s ﬁ  rst competition.
The team hopes Sloan will be able to gradually add 
events until she can compete all-around, ideally before the postseason.
Freshman Alex McMurtry began training on ﬂ  oor last 
week and will continue to do so this week, with the hope 
of adding the event by the postseason.
Add in senior Kytra Hunter and freshman Kennedy 
Baker, and Florida could have four gymnasts competing all-around by the end of the season — leaving the rest of 
the team to ﬁ  ght for the ﬁ  nal two spots in each event.
“I’d be very happy if that were to happen,” Faehn said, 
adding that the rest of the team would feel the same way. 
“All of these athletes are really just wanting the best for 
the program and the team.”
“Like Bianca (Dancose-Giambattisto) said, ‘Hey, if it 
means someone else going in on beam that’s gonna do 
better, I’m gonna be screaming my loudest and cheer-
ing.’”Florida gymnastics lineup still in ﬂ  ux with increased depthSEE COLUMN, PAGE 15
SEE GYM, PAGE 15SEE HOOPS PAGE 15“I believe that you put 
yourself in position – maybe 
if you want to use the word 
lucky – to be lucky. And I think 
if you go back, and certainly 
I’ve analyzed all those games 
... it’s always been somebody 
from the other team that’s 
made a shot against us.”
Billy Donovan
UF men’s basketball coachAIR JORDAN
Poll Results
Which team has a better chance of reaching a 
postseason tournament: the men’s basketball team or the women’s basketball team?66.7% WOMEN
33.3% MEN
33 total votesRYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer @RyanSummers18
Just about halfway through 
the ﬁ  rst year of his head-coach-ing career, men’s golf coach J.C. 
Deacon is creating an atmosphere on and off the course that will set the precedent for what’s to come.Through six tournaments last 
season the Gators only ﬁ  nished in the top ﬁ  ve as a team once when they tied for third at the Shoal Creek Intercollegiate tour-nament.
With the Gators fourth-place 
ﬁ  nish this weekend, the team 
has ﬁ  nished in the top ﬁ  ve of four tournaments this season through 
six events — doubling their total from last year.
The players attribute this suc-
cess to the change of the team dy-
namic and culture.
“I think his big thing is high 
energy. It’s always being posi-
tive,” senior J.D. Tomlinson said when asked about Deacon’s ef-fects on the team since taking over this season. “It’s not actu-ally technique or stuff on the golf course, it’s more just be posi-tive, be happy and be happy that you’re playing golf.”
With eight returning play-
ers from the 2013-2014 roster, the team has experience coming from guys who have played full seasons and have had their share of disappointing ﬁ  nishes.
With the addition of three 
freshmen and a new head coach, the Gators have already sur-passed last season’s results and feel their best play is yet to come.
Deacon attributes some of the 
team’s success to the maturation of players and especially the play of Tomlinson through recent weeks.
“I have leaned heavily on him, 
probably more than anyone on the team,” Deacon said. “He’s 
the one I put the most pres-sure on not only to play well but to be a leader and to show the 
guys how we 
need to do it to 
get to the next 
level. It took a little while, there’s 
been some growing pains for sure, but the last especially two or three weeks, he’s been excep-tional and he’s really starting to make a difference on and off the course for us.”
With the team stringing to-
gether quality ﬁ  nishes and play-ing team golf even though it is an individual sport, Deacon thinks the program is headed in the right direction.
“I think we’re starting to 
contend every week. You know we’re in the top four again this week and it’s a long way from ﬁ  nishing 14th, our ﬁ  rst event,” Deacon said. 
“We’re constantly there, we’re 
around the leaders or around the last groups and that’s where you want to be.”14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
AP Photo
East Team’s LeBron James, of the Cleveland Cavaliers, goes up for a basket during the second half of the NBA All-Star basketball game on Sunday in New York. James was elected vice-president of the NBPA on Saturday. 
INSTAGRAHAM
T  he NBA All-Star break is typically re-garded as the midway point of the of-ten grueling 82-game regular season 
schedule — a time when players can relax after 50 games and enjoy the week off. 
Many players choose to go on vacation, 
or spend some quality time with their fami-
lies.
But for the athletes who participated in 
this year’s 64th annual All-Star game — a weekend that included more than just the 24 players who displayed high-ﬂ  ying offense and nonexistent defense in the ac-tual game — the week was business as usual.
Instead of practice and games, the All-Stars attend-
ed promotional events, media sessions and watched other NBA players participate in minor yet enjoyable contests such as the Rising Stars Challenge and the 
Skills Challenge.
All of these events are televised, with endorsement 
space being sold to the highest bidder. 
It’s not just the Skills Challenge – it’s the Taco Bell 
Skills Challenge.
Because at the end of the day, the NBA is a business, 
ﬁ  rst and foremost.
Franchise owners declared back in 2011 when the 
current collective bargaining agreement was signed that more than half of the teams were losing money.
But both the NBA Player’s Association and the 
league itself backed down from revealing actual rev-
enue and operating costs, and that statement was just taken with a grain of salt.
That’s no longer the case.The new collective bargaining agreement allots more 
revenue towards the owners and franchises – roughly seven percent more than pre-2011 NBA basketball.
Owners are receiving more money, and more fans 
are attending games in post-recession America.
But the NBA still needs to make money from people 
who can’t attend games.
The NBA signed a massive broadcasting deal with 
Turner Sports and ESPN, a deal that takes effect in 2016 and will reportedly increase the NBA’s salary cap from $63.1 million this season to a projected $90 million or more in just 24 months from now.
That’s the biggest jump the cap has ever 
seen.
With no games during the break, the 
NBA Player’s Association, or NBPA, had a 
chance to attend to business pertaining to 
the salary cap and the state of its representa-tion.
The NBPA, led by executive director 
Michele Roberts and president/Los Ange-
les Clipper Chris Paul, had an opening for one of its six vice-president spots and unanimously elected the Cleveland Cavaliers’ LeBron James to the position. 
The duo of Paul and James gives the NBPA in-
creased bargaining power, which they sorely missed in the 2011 negotiations, and is seen as a sign of resilience for a union that ﬁ  red previous executive director Billy Hunter two years ago amid allegations of questionable business practices.
James immediately stepped into the role for the NB-
PA’s meeting with the league, which sought to discuss the impending cap increase. 
The league reportedly sought to institute a measure 
that would gradually increase the cap to the correct ﬁ  g-ure, rather than a huge jump all at once.
However, the NBPA shot this measure down, voic-
ing concerns over veteran players missing out on big money that players, including James and Paul, feel they deserve.
For now, the season continues without a clear plan 
of what will happen in 2016 with the salary cap. 
The game went off without a hitch, although the rat-
ings were dwarfed by Saturday Night Live’s 40th an-niversary special that aired on NBC.
The meetings deﬁ  ned what the NBA is all about: the 
best basketball players in the world making sure that they get their slice of the pie. 
The league may be headed for another lockout in the 
coming seasons, but for those who don’t want to know about the meetings and the business aspect of basket-ball, the league makes sure there’s enough televised 
dunking and shooting to drown out the noise of the 
NBA and its players moving farther apart.  NBA All-Star weekend about more than just basketball
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Florida attributing recent success to culture change
Tomlinson
UF Golf
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Senior J.D. Tomlinson lines up a putt during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Saturday at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course. Tomlinson ﬁ  nished tied for second place in Florida’s lone home tournament. 
It’s what Kasey Hill didn’t do against Ole Miss in 
January. It’s what Eli Carter didn’t do against George-
town, It’s what Alex Murphy didn’t do Saturday eve-
ning against Texas A&M.
With data collected from all the college basketball 
games played through Sunday, the Gators are dead-last, 
No. 351 in the country in KenPom.com’s luck rating. 
The metric’s definition is “A measure of the devia-
tion between a team’s actual winning percentage and what one would expect from its game-by-game effi-ciencies. ... Essentially, a team involved in a lot of close games should not win (or lose) all of them. Those that 
do will be viewed as lucky (or unlucky).”
Florida hasn’t lost all of them, but they do seem to 
be snake-bitten more than most and Carter and co. are 
trying their best not to get too down.
“Well coach is not going to let us do that,” Carter 
said. 
“Like I said we just have to continue to trust in each 
other, believe in each other and trust what coach is tell-ing us.”
It is not totally unluckiness that has doomed Florida. The Gators don’t have a dominant post presence, 
they could use another consistent scorer and a few more made free throws wouldn’t hurt. 
It’s only human nature to question what would hap-
pen if the balls bounced a different way a handful of times, and that may not completely hit close to home until selection Sunday. 
If Florida’s on the outside looking in, a few missed 
miracle baskets from opponents could be the margin between the NIT and the big dance.
Sometimes it’s better to be lucky than good. Florida would probably take a little bit more of either 
one right now. weekend compared to 20 during the opening three days of the 2014 season.
Six teams produced at least 
three home runs through their first three games this year. In 2014, only three SEC teams were able to say 
they did that.
Florida — a team that has re-
corded less than 30 home runs 
each of the past two years — had four players belt out a combined 
six home runs in its sweep of 
Rhode Island, tying with Georgia for the most home runs in the con-ference through three games.
To put that into perspective, 
last year’s Florida team didn’t hit six home runs until UF’s 3-1 win against Florida State on March 18 — 21 games into the season.
Junior Harrison Bader, a career 
.323 hitter with three home runs to his name entering this season, ripped an SEC-best three balls 
into the bleachers at the Mac and 
hit .583 against Rhode Island this weekend.
The junior outfielder’s perfor-
mance, which also included 11 
RBIs, five runs and a 1.500 slug-ging mark, earned him the first 
Southeastern Conference Player 
of the Week honor of his career on 
Monday.
The Gators also tacked on 10 
additional extra-base hits (nine 
doubles and a triple) from seven 
different players to go along with a collective .340 batting average to open the season.
“I think the ball may have 
something to do with it,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said after Sat-urday’s 22-3 routing of the Rams where Florida ripped four hom-
ers into the McKethan Stadium 
bleachers. “I think you’re going to see as the season goes along, there’s going to be more offensive production.”
The season’s still early, and 
three games are without a doubt a small sample size to make any sort of predictions about how many 
home runs any team is going to hit 
this season.
But the early view for the Gators 
this season looks like a home run.
“I didn’t know how much it 
was going to change,” O’Sullivan said. “I knew it would somewhat. Maybe it’s going to be a little bit more than we thought.”
The situation has created a positive, 
hyper-competitive atmosphere within the team, with every training session being the difference between starting and sit-ting.
Faehn said she didn’t have her lineups 
finalized for Friday night’s meet against Missouri until after warmups.
“It’s definitely a combination of their 
consistency in the competition but also their consistency in training,” she said. “Just because they did a great meet and they nailed a great routine, if they are tanking a little bit or struggling or sore 
in the training the week following, then 
they’re kinda put back under ‘Hey, you have to be able to have a great warmup.’”
Faehn cited senior Kiersten Wang as an 
example. 
Wang wasn’t able to practice well last 
week due to shin soreness, Faehn said, but a great warmup solidified her spot in the floor lineup.
“I challenged her, and she did amaz-
ing,” Faehn said. 
“That’s what I like to be able to see is 
when you challenge the athlete, do they 
rise to the occasion or do they kind of get 
tight from the pressure.”
With just four regular season meets re-
maining for the Gators, there isn’t much time left to solidify lineups before the 
conference and NCAA championships.
And with the embarrassment of tal-
ent at her disposal, Faehn will need every 
second to determine who gives Florida 
the best chance to win a third-consecutive 
title.
“It is a good problem to have,” she 
said. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Kiersten Wang performs her floor exercise routine during Florida’s 
198.225-195.975 win against Missouri on Friday in the O’Connell Center.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Harrison Bader (8) celebrates with teammates Dalton Guthrie (5) and Richie Martin (12) after hitting his second home run during Florida’s 22-3 win against Rhode Island on Saturday. Florida hit six home runs in its first three games this season, a feat UF did not accomplish until Game 21 of the 2014 season.
Faehn: Consistency is key to a starting spot
GYM , from page 13Florida hit six home runs in its opening three games this season
COLUMN , from page 13
HOOPS , from page 13UF last in luck, 
per KenPom.comALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Any successful team is made up 
of more than just a talented start-
ing lineup and a well-respected 
head coach. 
Sure, there are a few superstars 
who become household names 
and the faces of the team, but 
when even the lesser-known play-
ers are contributing valuable min-utes game after game, you know you’ve got a special squad.
Florida lacrosse, now in just its 
sixth year of existence, has already seen its fair share of talented teams come and go through the locker rooms of Donald R. Dizney Sta-
dium. 
But this year’s group may turn 
out to be one of the strongest, 
partly due to the early production from its freshmen.
The No. 4 Gators have an eight-
player freshman class this season, and each one has seen playing time in at least two of the three games 
Florida has had to begin the year. 
The group is already making a 
positive impact on the team and 
good impressions on coach Aman-da O’Leary.
“I was really impressed with 
our younger classmen,” O’Leary said regarding Florida’s 21-0 win over Michigan on Saturday. “One of the bright spots was Morgan Bracken. She’s a defender who has, I think, been playing really, really well each and every day.”
O’Leary also commended 
freshman defender Aniya Flana-
gan, who is the only freshman to 
start each of Florida’s first three games. Olivia Cole, the freshman goal-
keeper, played the entire second half against Michigan and secured Florida’s second ever shutout.
And, after Saturday’s win, 
O’Leary dubbed freshmen Shayna Pirreca, Allie Pavinelli and Bella O’Connor the “future of Florida lacrosse” with what they’ve been able to do so far in their young ca-reers.
The offensive trio of Pirreca, 
Pavinelli and O’Connor has been impressive. Pavinelli, a midfielder, has 
loaded the stat sheet with one goal, three assists, two groundballs and three draw controls. 
O’Connor scored a hat trick on 
Saturday for her first three goals as a Gator and has looked very confi-dent at the attacker position.
Attacker Pirreca, who has 
played in all three games and start-ed against Jacksonville last Thurs-day, may be the most strikingly talented freshman of the group. 
She has netted two goals, in-
cluding Florida’s first of the sea-son, but her drive is what O’Leary finds unusual of such a young 
player.
“Shayna’s another one that puts 
the time in, she was also out there 
on Sunday after the Carolina game working hard,” O’Leary said. 
“She’s a person that you see ev-
ery day working out on her own. I think she, personally, has made tremendous strides, but she un-
derstands she has work to do as a 
freshman.”
Such a strong class of freshmen 
is something that any coach would love to have and, fortunately for 
O’Leary, these young players are 
only three games into their college careers. 
The potential for growth and 
development of each of them spells a very bright future for an already flourishing program.16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Freshman attacker Shayna Pirreca (7) looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 17-11 loss to North Caro-
lina on Feb. 7 at Donald R Dizney Stadium. Pirreca has scored two goals in UF’s first three games this season, in which the Gators have gone 2-1.
LACROSSE
Freshmen providing Florida with valuable playing time