VOLUME 109 ISSUE 83 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Carnitas no longer at Gainesville Chipotle locations
It’s due to a violation from a pork supplier, pg 8.  
Two die, three injured in Friday semitrailer crash:
The injured are in stable condition, pg 5. Smoothie King opens on Archer Road
The chain is back after a seven year absence, 
pg. 5. Kytra Hunter 
wants to improve 
on her performance 
from Friday’s win 
against Auburn. 
Read the story on 
Page 16.
71/46
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13
ALYSSA FISHER and STELLA HEEKIN
Alligator Writers
Miriam Brown stood at the corner of East Univer-
sity Avenue and Northeast Third Street leading the 
pack of marchers growing behind her.
Dressed in a pink Alpha Kappa Alpha shirt, she 
and her surrounding sorority sisters made up just a 
few of the more than 1,000 people participating in 
the Gainesville Annual Commemorative March in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. on Monday after-noon.
“We’re bringing awareness,” said Brown, a 
19-year-old UF health education and behavior soph-omore. “It’s not just a day off of school.”
At 1 p.m., a mixed crowd of community mem-
bers, from multicultural fraternities to the Human 
Rights Council of North Central Florida, took up the 
SEE MLK, PAGE 4IN MEMORIAM
ARIANA FIGUEORA
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Jerry DeClasse was known 
to seize the day.
As an Innovation Acad-
emy student, he ﬂ  ourished as 
a leader and mentor for stu-dents in the tight-knit com-munity and always had new 
ideas scribbled in his planner.
But now his ideas will stay 
on the page.
On Friday just before 10 
p.m., DeClasse was taken off 
life support after receiving care at UF Health Shands Hos-pital following a hit-and-run 
accident.
He was 20.
One week earlier, DeClasse 
was hit by a car on Northeast Waldo Road, according to Gainesville Police. Earlier that 
evening, his roommates — 
who declined to speak to the Alligator — ﬁ  led a missing persons report and told police he was dealing with mental health issues.
But friends of DeClasse 
have said the police report made no sense based on the man they knew.
“Jerry is not a person who 
had a history with mental is-sues,” said Hammaad Saber, one of Jerry’s close friends. “He’s the most stable person I know.”
DeClasse, whose full name 
was Rude Jerry DeClasse, was born in Haiti and moved to Tampa with his family, who 
could not be reached for com-
ment. He came to UF with dreams of starting his own business.
When he got to campus, 
DeClasse started IA Lead with Saber, 21. 
As an ambassador, he ran 
the mentorship program and 
helped the organization pick UF students mourn 
loss of Jerry DeClasse
SEE OBITUARY, PAGE 4
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer ghall@alligator.org
A UF women’s basketball player was arrested Friday 
afternoon after she reportedly stole a teammate’s credit 
card and used it at multiple stores.
University Police charged Antoi-
nette Bannister, 21, with theft of a credit 
card and fraudulent use of a credit card, 
a third-degree felony. According to the report, Bannister took the credit card of teammate Viktorija Dimaite on Nov. 11 from the women’s locker room of the basketball practice facility.
A University Athletic Association 
spokesperson conﬁ  rmed Saturday that Bannister is no Player for women’s 
basketball arrested, kicked off team
SEE BASKETBALL, PAGE 16REMEMBERING AN ICON 
Bannister
Deshlee Ford / Alligator News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 83 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.FORECAST
SATURDAY
RAIN
56/37RAIN
59/51FRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
71/51THURSDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
71/46SUNNY
73/48WEDNESDAY TODAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. tending the new volunteer 
orientation Monday from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. to help find the best match for your interests and abilities. Volunteers serve 
as exhibit guides to school 
groups and other museum visitors or provide assistance in the research and collec-tions areas. Pre-registration is required and volunteers must be 18 or older. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/volunteers/ or call 352-
273-2056.
Model railroader workshop
Model railroaders and peo-
ple interested in the hobby have a special opportunity to learn and share on Jan. 31 in Alachua. The event is open to the public. Beginners are wel-
come. The program is from 
9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission is $5 per person. Workshops will be held in the fellowship hall of First United Methodist Church, located at 14805 NW 140th St. in Alachua. Skilled instructors will conduct workshops and experienced 
hobbyists will show samples 
of their work. More informa-tion is available on line at ncfrailroadclub.weebly.com
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your foreign 
language skills, make friends, 
establish new contacts, strengthen your resume and intern abroad: All of these op-portunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on Feb. 4 on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For ad-ditional information visit ufic.
ufl.edu/sas/index.html or 
email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History MuseumBecome a part of music his-tory. Learn how to become a better writer and hear mu-sical masterpieces unfold 
around you with a lesson 
and presentation by the Dixie Desperados on Feb. 19 from 6 to 8 p.m. A similar event will be March 12 at the same time, featuring a lesson and pre-sentation by Stan Lynch, the WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Phi Sigma Pi National Honor 
Fraternity Spring RushPhi Sigma Pi is a National Co-Ed Honor Fraternity that is one-third social fraternity, one-
third service organization and 
one-third honor society. It is based on a tripod of scholar-ship, leadership and fellow-ship and participates in a wide variety of events ranging from socials and tailgates to Dance Marathon and service proj-ects around Gainesville. Learn 
more at our Informational 
Meet Night on Tuesday at 6 p.m. in Broward Basement. Free pizza will be served. For more information and to find other rush events, check us out on Facebook at facebook.com/phisigmapigammaepsi-lon or on our Facebook event 
titled Phi Sigma Pi Rush Week 
Spring 2015. Also follow us on Instagram and Twitter @PhiSigGammaEp. Our web-site is pspuf.com. 
Intramural Sports in Spring 2015
Intramural sports kick off in Spring 2015 with outdoor soc-
cer followed by 4-on-4 flag 
football and 5-on-5 basketball. Register for both flag football and basketball by Jan. 21. Other sports offered this semester include swimming, sand vol-leyball, tennis, dodgeball, a two-person golf scramble and inner-tube water polo. Register 
on IMLeagues. Visit recsports.
ufl.edu for the full schedule and more information.
Family FunDay at the Matheson 
History MuseumCelebrate more than 1,500 years of Gainesville history with the installation of the Matheson’s 
new permanent exhibition en-
titled “Exploring Our Native Heritage,” which features a 1,500-year-old Timucuan ca-noe. This event, held Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m., will also fea-ture Native American danc-ing, educational activities, face painting and much more. 
Another FunDay, which will 
be held on Feb. 15 from 1 to 4 p.m., will give visitors the op-portunity to explore the contri-butions the African-American community made to blues mu-sic. This event will also feature tours of the Tison Tool Barn and the Matheson House.
Florida Museum’s Adult 
Volunteer OrientationWant to become a Florida Museum of Natural History volunteer? The first step is at-former drummer of Tom Petty 
and the Heartbreakers.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and Roll
Hear history come alive Feb. 26 with a multimedia pre-sentation by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa 
Red and Hokum Blues: Early 
Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson History Museum, examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for well-known musical sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Taylor Bello, Kelsey Bona, Kathy Pierre
  Alex Fernandez, , Kortney Sweeney     
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
LOCAL
GLENN KENNELLY
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local bead store is closing 
shop and moving its merchandise 
online.
Because of a slow economy and 
the movement to online shopping, 
owner Rhonda  Bergman decided it was time to run her business 
from home.
“It’s been like a dream,” Berg-
man said, referring to learning dif-
ferent jewelry-making techniques throughout the years.
Rhonda Bergman opened up 
Gifts of Avalon 23 years ago on Southwest First Avenue with her partner, Trude Spillane. 
But two years ago, Spillane 
retired. Since then, Bergman’s store manager, Holly Merton, has worked nonstop running the shop, teaching classes and building the online side of the business. 
Francine Schulze started com-
ing into Gifts of Avalon when she was 5 years old. Now 21, she has 
worked at the store for more than 
three years.
Schulze is still an avid beader and likes “bead work, fine gems, anything tedious.”
“I definitely like the custom-
ers,” she said. ”It is kind of fun helping out because you find ways to work on your own jewelry by explaining things to other people.”
After opening the  store’s origi-
nal location, Bergman moved her 
shop to University Avenue and 
operated there for about six years before moving to its current loca-
tion at 4205 NW 16th Blvd. 
Bergman said the exact clos-
ing date has not been determined. 
She expects it to be around mid-February and plans on staying in Gainesville.
Bergman said she has enjoyed 
her time with the store, but it’s 
time to move on.
“It’s a very bittersweet closing,” 
Bergman said. “I have a lot of great 
memories. I’ve met so many great people, and that is probably what I will miss the most is seeing some of the wonderful people I have met every day.”     
She will continue selling mer-
chandise online at etsy.com/shop/AvalonBeads.Gainesville bead store 
to close after 23 years
 SHE’S A TWO-TIME CEO.
AMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
For one UF alumna, suc-
cess seems to be never-end-
ing.
Linda Parker Hudson, 
who graduated with honors 
in 1972 with a bachelor’s in 
systems engineering, was awarded an honorary doc-torate in science from UF — the highest honor given by the university.
Hudson said she was hon-
ored to be recognized by the university for her career and her nonprofit work, which focused on helping promote women in engineering and 
advance STEM education.
More than 40 years later, 
she continues to give back to 
the UF and engineering com-munities.
“I started, like many 
people, at the bottom and worked my way up to what I have done and what I con-
tinue to do,” she said.
In 2007, Hudson became 
the first woman to lead a 
major aerospace and defense company as the president and CEO of BAE Systems Inc. 
Today, she is the chair-
woman and CEO of The Cardea Group, a consul-tant agency that focuses on change in leadership organi-zations.
Along with being named 
No. 34 in Fortune Magazine’s 50 Most Powerful Women in 
Business and one of Wash-
ingtonian Magazine’s 100 Most Powerful Women in Washington, she also serves on the board of directors for Bank of America.
Lindsay Rorbeck, a UF 
mechanical and aerospace engineering junior, is con-
stantly motivated by Hud-
son’s achievements.
Rorbeck, 20, said Hud-
son’s success shows women that it’s possible to succeed as an engineer, even in a 
male-dominated industry.
“It’s a known fact that 
there are more men than 
women in engineering,” she said. “By having her accom-plishments shown to the public, we deal away with the stigma in society.”
Hudson said she keeps 
giving back because of stu-dents like Rorbeck.
“Anything I can do to help 
set the stage and help other people be successful and as-pire to things in life that they never could’ve aspired to do is really important to me,” Hudson said.Alumna awarded 
UF’s highest honor4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Photo bottom left: From left: Hammaad Saber, a 21-year-old UF industrial systems engineering junior, Jerry De-
Classe and Ben Vance, a 21-year-old UF industrial systems engineering junior, pose for a picture.Photo top: Jerry DeClasse poses for a picture.Photo bottom right: From left: Hammad Saber, a 21-year-old UF industrial systems engineering junior, David Nassau, a 20-year-old UF business and marketing junior, Jerry DeClasse and Natalia Tanayo, a 22-year-old UF public relations junior, interact with the audience at a Center for Leadership and Service Panel.
DeClasse was involved in Innovation Academy, loved dancing
up speed on social media.
The UF psychology soph-
omore also dove into the 
Gainesville entrepreneurial 
community. At networking events, he sported his signature brown fedora and wide grin.
“He would always have 
these different inside jokes with everybody,” said his for-mer roommate, Nick Torralba, a 19-year-old UF industrial and 
systems engineering sopho-
more.
On the night of the accident, 
DeClasse’s roommates from 
this year contacted one of his 
best friends, David Nassau, be-cause they were unable to reach him.
Nassau, 20, was on his way 
to Orlando for the Disney Mar-athon and also wasn’t able to reach DeClasse.
The UF business and mar-
keting junior returned to Gainesville late Sunday night and went to visit him on Mon-day morning at Shands, but he was turned away. At the time, 
only immediate family was al-
lowed.
But an hour before DeClasse 
was taken off life support, doz-
ens of students and leaders in 
the Innovation Academy com-munity came to say their last goodbyes.
Saber, a UF industrial and 
systems engineering junior, said when he saw his best friend hooked up to machines on Friday night, he froze.“I wanted to say something,” 
he said. “But there was nothing to say.”
Nassau went in and gave his 
friend one last fist bump and said, “I love you man.”
Others weren’t as lucky to 
say goodbye in person.  
One of DeClasse’s closest 
friends, Connor Grooms, heard 
about his death while overseas.
Grooms, 19, studied business 
at UF for a year before leav-
ing the school to travel abroad while working on his web-de-
sign company. 
But during his time at school, 
the two grew close.
He and DeClasse went to 
start-up company events, hung 
out at each other’s dorms and went out to clubs.  
One of Grooms’ favorite 
memories with DeClasse em-
bodied his outgoing personal-
ity.
For Spring Break, DeClasse 
visited Grooms at his home in 
Key West. 
There, DeClasse taught him 
to breakdance with the moves 
he shows off in a YouTube video with more than 380,000 
views titled “THE BEST POP-
PING DANCER EVER!!!!!”
The pair would often have 
dance battles outside of bars 
they were too young to get into.
“Jerry was the type of per-
son who could do that and not 
worry what people thought,” he said.
As of press time, plans for a 
funeral and memorial had not been yet finalized. OBITUARY , from page 1ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers 
are in critical need of blood.
The nonprofit, which operates in Flor-
ida, Georgia and Alabama, typically has 
less blood donated during the holidays. 
But donations have not returned to nor-
mal levels following the new year.
“What happened this year is that be-
cause of cold weather, and more so be-cause so many people have been sick with the flu that’s going around, we haven’t seen the donations increase like we typi-cally would,” said Laura Bialeck, Life-South’s North Florida District community 
coordinator.
Combined with blood usage increases, 
the shortage of donors created an emer-
gency need, which took effect Wednes-day, she said.
To inform students and residents of 
this, LifeSouth has placed signage around blood mobiles and reached out on social media.
Wesley Carter, 25, of Gainesville, do-
nated blood this weekend and said he didn’t know about the critical need. But 
he would have donated anyways, he said.
“You never know when you might need it,” Carter said.  
People often don’t donate because 
they are afraid, Bialeck said.
Becca Negron, a 21-year-old UF cre-
ative photography senior, does not plan 
on giving blood because she hates needles. When she walks into a doctor’s office, she said her heartbeat rises to the point that the doctor cannot take her pulse.
“I feel like I should (donate),” Negron 
said. “I’m a healthy human, and I don’t need all my blood, I guess. But I feel like there are lots of other people that are will-ing and able.”
For first-time donors who might be 
nervous or unsure if they are eligible, Bi-aleck encourages them to try donating.  
“Step up and donate,” Bialeck said.Blood banks in critical needLocals marched to MLK Center
blocked-off East University Avenue to march to the Martin Luther King Jr. Recreation Cen-ter off of Waldo Road.
Clifford Peppers manned the intersection, 
blowing a whistle and directing the crowd to 
keep it organized.
“It’s a great thing we’re doing,” said Pep-
pers, who has worked with the MLK commis-
sion for seven years.
Resident Florida Bridgewater-Alford said 
the march has become a family tradition. Her children, ages 7 and 11, have been participat-ing since they were in strollers.
“There’s always hundreds (of people),” 
she said. “The dream is still alive, and the fight for equality is not over.”
Earlier in the day, dozens of students got 
their hands dirty during the UF Center for Leadership and Service’s MLK Day of Ser-vice, meeting at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium be-fore breaking off into groups to volunteer at various community organizations.
Lisa Hill, a UF CLS graduate assistant, said 
the MLK Day of Service projects draw in peo-ple from the community, so they have more participation than other activities on campus.
The center’s Day of Service partnered 
with various organizations throughout the Gainesville community, including The Boys and Girls Club and Keep Alachua County Beautiful.
The goal of Service Day is to encourage participants to continue service throughout the year and not just the three days the center sponsors, Hill said.
Hill said that volunteering is a great 
way to recognize the issues that plague the Gainesville community, and it is an oppor-tunity to give back and honor the legacy of King.  
“It’s a great opportunity for people to 
come together from different areas and work, as well as for students to get outside the cam-pus bubble,” she said.
Dominique Levert, a UF psychology se-
nior, spent the afternoon cleaning the street by Second Avenue with Keep Alachua Coun-ty Beautiful. She said the day of service was a great way to spend the day off from school 
and bond with her service fraternity, Delta 
Nu Zeta.
“I could be at the library, but I could be 
helping out also,” Levert, 21, said. 
MLK , from page 1
You may not be able to donate blood if:
 You spent six months or more on a U.S. 
military base in Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain or Turkey from 1980-1996 You have had sex with a prostitute even 
once You use Insulin from cows to treat dia-
betes
* Information courtesy of LifeSouth Community Blood CentersPhoto on page 1
Coral MacDonald, a 50-year-old gar -
dener, marches with his sign held high 
during the King Celebration Annual Com-memorative March on Monday for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. A few steps ahead of him is Christine Wilson, a 66-year-old re-tired children’s librarian, carrying a flag representing Veterans for Peace.TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Cars drive past Smoothie King, located at 3600 SW Archer Road in Butler Plaza, on Monday.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Smoothie King is back in the 
mix.
Nestled in Butler Plaza, the 
store is the first Smoothie King 
in Gainesville since 2008, said DJ Halligan, a managing partner for the franchise. Located at 3600 SW 
Archer Road, it’s the first of three 
locations that Halligan, 43, and 
his partners — Susan Halligan, 
40, and Ravi Murjani, 38 — plan 
to open in Gainesville.
After holding a soft opening 
last week, there was a line of 
about 30 people waiting out front 
when the store officially opened at 10 a.m. Saturday.
“I was not shocked to see the 
line out the door,” Halligan said, attributing the company’s popu-lar name brand.
The drink shop offers more 
than 50 different smoothies and 
includes vegan and gluten-free 
options. 
Prices start at $3.79 for a small, 
20-ounce smoothie. The shop also 
offers 10 smoothie enhancer op-
tions, each costing 99 cents.
Miranda Jackson, 19, said 
she enjoyed the atmosphere at Smoothie King on Saturday and 
thought the staff was helpful.
The UF mathematics freshman 
stayed in the store for about 15 
minutes admiring a 10-foot Kala 
Signature standup paddleboard 
— valued at $1,200.
Halligan said the store would 
host raffles once a month through the summer to help drive busi-
ness. The paddleboard is the 
store’s first offering. 
Jackson said she was deter-
mined to win the prize. Custom-
ers can enter the drawing by or-
dering a medium smoothie with at least two enhancers, which costs about $8.Smoothie King opens on Archer Road, to hold monthly raffles
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Two Gainesville men are dead and 
three more are injured after a car ac-
cident early Friday.
Gainesville resident Jamie Reed, 
33, was driving a semitrailer just be-fore 4 a.m. Friday on Northwest 39th Avenue when a Lincoln passenger car traveling on Northwest 19th Street pulled directly in front of the truck, resulting in a T-bone collision.
The driver of the Lincoln, John Lee 
Little Jr., 24, and one of the car’s three passengers, Donte Mandel Bradley-Faulk, 23, were both pronounced dead at the scene. The other two pas-sengers, Terrell Marquis Bradley, 23, and Rodrick Marvin Thompson Jr., 23, were transported to UF Health Shands Hospital under Trauma Alert. Thompson suffered non-life threat-ening injuries and Bradley suffered critical injuries. As of press time, both were in stable condition.
Reed, the driver of the semitrailer, 
suffered minor injuries from the crash.
Little, known as Johnny Rocket or 
Rocket to friends, had played foot-ball and ran track for Eastside High School, earning a running back posi-tion at Charleston Southern Univer-sity. Bradley-Faulk also ran track for Buchholz High School, setting top-ten school records in both 100-meter and 200-meter events.
As of press time, police do not 
expect Reed to be charged in the ac-cident.Semitrailer, passenger 
car collide Friday, leaving two dead, three injuredRESEARCH
GIUSEPPE SABELLA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rising temperatures may cause a steady 
decline in wheat production, the crop that 
makes up 20 percent of calories consumed globally.  
According to a study led by Senthold 
Asseng, a UF professor of agriculture and biological engineering, wheat yields de-cline by 6 percent for every increase of 1 degree Celsius in the atmosphere.
Higher temperatures can also decrease 
the grain’s nutritional value, but a possible solution can be found in crop management and the breeding of heat-tolerant plants, Asseng said.
Both have limitations, though. A heat-
tolerant variety of wheat could take up to 50 years to perfect, he said, and global food production must increase 60 percent by 2050 to meet population demands.
“We shouldn’t lose any more time to in-
vest in looking at adaptation options,” he said.
Mike Walker, a Citizens Co-op employ-ee with five years of farming experience, said while crops have undergone genetic modification for thousands of years, he isn’t sure how the human body will handle new developments.
“There’s no way to tell, even in a gen-
eration, if genetically modified crops are changing with us or not,” he said.
Walker, who was standing next to his 
coworker with a wheat allergy, said there are other grain options with the similar nu-tritional values as wheat, including barley, quinoa and rice.
Asseng said he hopes to isolate more 
factors, including rainfall or solar radia-tion, to find their effects on food crops.
He said he is also focused on the threat 
of carbon dioxide trapping the sun’s en-ergy, which is pushing the global tempera-ture higher.
“I think in some parts of the world, the 
increasing temperatures will be so chal-lenging that they might not be able to pro-duce a crop — or at least not a viable crop,” Asseng said.Rising temperatures could 
decrease wheat production
 THE CHANGE WILL NOT AF -
FECT UF ADMISSIONS.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
New exams replacing the Flor-
ida Comprehensive Assessment 
Test this year may begin to affect high school students applying to college.
The Florida Standards Assess-
ments, which were implemented this year and will begin in spring, were designed to be more rigorous, said Santa Fe High School princi-pal Elizabeth LeClear. Some of the exams will even affect students’ GPAs.
The end-of-course exams will af-
fect 30 percent of students’ overall grade for that subject. They were 
approved in February 2014, along 
with other FSA assessments.
While passing is required for 
graduation, LeClear said she hopes college admissions offices won’t pay much attention to the new tests.
“Granted, some of these kids are going to get bit by this 30 percent,” LeClear said. “Just be glad you’re not taking tests in Florida or you’re too old because it’s ridiculous.”
LeClear said she will fully de-
cide how she feels about the tests  once teachers see them.
“They’ve had another state pilot 
it so we really have no idea what we’re going to be getting,” LeClear said. “Our jobs depend on it, but we haven’t seen it.”
UF director of freshman and 
international admissions Andrea Felder wrote in an email that the admissions office will look at es-says, extracurriculars and ACT and SAT scores more than state assess-ments.
“The change in the standardized 
tests in Florida will not impact ad-missions in any way,” Felder said. “Although the new test will be fig-
ured into the student’s GPA, more 
than likely, this will not impact stu-dents who have consistently done well throughout high school.”
Stella Seeger, an 18-year-old UF 
food science and human nutrition freshman, said harder standardized tests for high schoolers may not be a bad thing.
“It’s a standard for graduation,” 
she said. “So I think it’s more fair to make it more difficult. But I don’t think it should affect GPA.”
Not all hope is lost for those stu-
dents with slipping grades from the 
FSA.
“My GPA and test scores were 
either mid range or below aver-
age,” Seeger said, who considered UF her top-choice university. “But I had a lot of extracurricular activi-ties that helped me stand out.”
High school students prepare for FCAT’s replacement exams“I was not shocked to see 
the line out the door.”
DJ Halligan
managing partner, Smoothie KingReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
44 TOTAL VOTES45% YES
55% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Have you migrated 
your Webmail yet? Today’s question: Have you donated blood before? Mugshot target 
practice more than 
just a race issue
A story broke Friday shocking enough to obliterate 
any feelings of goodwill you may have developed recently.
Sgt. Valerie Deant, a National Guardsman, was at a 
shooting range in Miami-Dade County last week. There, she found copies of old mugshots that evidently had been used for target practice. All of the mugshots were those of young black men, and all had been riddled with bullets holes. To make the situation worse, one of the ripped-apart faces was that of her own brother, Woody Deant.
What really makes this story upsetting, though, is that 
the mugshots weren’t being used for target practice by a white supremacist, vigilante group. They were being used 
by North Miami Beach Police for an exercise in sniper train-
ing.
Understandably, the world is in uproar over this inci-
dent. At best, it is an egregious lapse in judgment on the part of North Miami Beach Police. The worst possible interpreta-
tion points at evidence of racism at an institutional level.
Such an interpretation is easily susceptible to accusations 
of racial agitation — the mere mention of the word “black” 
in a headline unnecessarily makes the story “about race.” So it went with Michael Brown, Eric Garner and the multi-tude of other stories of this nature that would supposedly be open-and-shut — if it weren’t for the malevolent machi-nations of racial agitators and their attempts to defame our beloved institutions by any means at their disposal.
So let’s take race out of the equation.North Miami Beach Police Chief J. Scott Dennis claims 
the mugshots used in the training program included people of all races.
Is that actually supposed to make us feel any better?Are we supposed to lie back and accept the logic that, if 
you’re arrested, the police department that arrested you has the right to fire bullets into a photograph of your face?
It’s profoundly upsetting that people whose job it is to 
serve and protect residents of a city will end up with im-
ages of some of those same residents — not necessarily even 
convicts — in their sights. Using the likenesses of existing 
human beings for target practice is fundamentally sick.
Import race into this scenario, and it’s enough to make 
one scream. Yes, the police chief of North Miami Beach did 
say the department doesn’t use only mugshots of black men in its sniper training exercises, but the utter lack of evidence to this effect makes his claim dubious at best. Of the six mugshots found, six were of black men. 
Even if the statement were true, it remains wildly irre-
sponsible, disconcerting and repugnant.For 2016 election: Move over, Romney
We are now three weeks into the New Year, which 
means move aside 2015 — 2016 is the star. It’s the year when we finally get to have another presi-
dential election, and not one of those boring ones where one of the candidates is an incumbent. We start with fresh con-tenders from both parties. 
Well, I would use the word fresh for some candidates 
who may run, like Ben Carson for the Republicans or Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Massachusetts, but we could possibly have one candidate who has soured quite a bit — yes, I am talking about Gov. Mitt Romney, R-Massachusetts.
If you haven’t heard, Romney has stated that he is seri-
ously considering running for president again in 2016, de-
spite unsuccessful attempts in 2008 and 2012. You can’t blame the guy though; he has significant qualifications that have prepared him to be president, the political muster to raise a lot of money and off-the-charts name recognition. There are a lot of factors in his favor that practically scream at him to run again. 
But I’m not so eager. I’m putting my foot down: I do not 
want to see Romney take the Republican nomination again 
next year. If you dig deeper and really consider Romney’s 
impact as the Republican candidate, he has no chance of win-ning. They say the third time’s the charm, but there is some-thing about Romney that doesn’t resonate with the majority of Americans. He is unelectable as a result. Maybe it’s that he is too rich. With the past few decade of liberal brainwashing, Americans have been taught to despise and resent those who have succeeded. 
This works against people like Romney. Maybe it’s be-
cause he comes off as a robot. He doesn’t quite have the charm and charisma that a candidate like Barack Obama has, and it comes across as standoffish to some people. Whatever the reason, there’s an intrinsic quality to Romney that makes him undesirable to most voters.
Then there are the facts. For the Republicans to have a 
chance of taking the White House in 2016, they have to get women and minorities who voted for Obama in 2012 to se-lect a Republican instead, and I seriously doubt they will do that if Romney is the candidate. 
These voters had the opportu-
nity to vote for Romney in 2012, but instead they went with Obama by an overwhelming margin. 
Romney won the battle with men at 52 percent and whites at 59 percent but lost the war with women voting for Obama at 55 percent, African-Americans at 93 percent and Hispanics at 71 percent. No longer in America can you win an election solely on the white vote. It takes an all-encompassing ap-proach to be victorious, and I have serious reservations that Romney will be able to sway these voters with a message that attracts them.
With the economy finally recovering after many disas-
trous years under President Obama, I predict 2016 will be more focused on social progress and race relations; the im-pending collapse of programs like Social Security; and na-tional security issues we currently face with the Islamic State group, Russia and North Korea. Romney is a candidate who will likely again focus heavily on the economy, which is im-portant of course, but won’t be most important to voters in 2016. You can say he’s a candidate who doesn’t keep up with the times, and he won’t be able to persuade voters with ap-
peals based on the economics.
Romney had a chance to win the Republican nomination 
in 2008 but lost against Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona. Rom-
ney finally got the nomination in 2012 but lost to an unpopu-lar president. His win in 2012 should have been secured, but he lost it by making the 47-percent comment, and because he never really explained how Romneycare differs from Obam-acare. 
Those setbacks won’t just disappear. Rather, they will be-
come a problem once again in 2016. With all this to consider, how does Romney expect to face a popular candidate like Hillary Clinton and win? Simply put, he can’t. When you take into account the need for the Republican Party to get more minority votes, have a candidate whose main focus is on current issues and excites the base but also entices in-dependent voters, it’s clear Romney isn’t the right choice. 
Nick Eagle is an economics and political science senior. TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORNick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7Closer look at Israeli-Palestinian conflict
Naor Amir’s response (“Response to 
previous letter urging UF to cut ties with 
anti-Palestinian groups”) to Amanda Nel-son’s op-ed (“Call to UF: Cut ties with anti-Palestine community”) was persuasive and 
thought-provoking. We believed it war-
ranted a response, as it contained many of the arguments that have been used to justify Israeli occupation of Palestinian land. These arguments included, “Israel is the only free country in the Middle East,” “Terrorism is bad” and “What about other Middle Eastern conflicts?”
Amir opened his letter by alluding to the Charlie Hebdo tragedy and reviving the belief that the Middle East is devoid of democracy. Palestinian and pro-Palestinian 
activists are often asked to account for every 
instance of injustice in the Middle East. 
This suggestion ignores the diverse array 
of issues within the Middle East, treating the region as a monolith. It ignores the political and social complexities within each country and conglomerates a vast array of groups — Kurds, Palestinians, Syrians — into one. 
In addition, we will note that we are in 
solidarity with other oppressed peoples in the Middle East and beyond. In fact, the Dream Defenders, predominantly made up of African-Americans and other people of color who protest against police brutality and other injustices, recently joined the Boy-
cott, Divestment and Sanctions movement.  
Also, Israel is not the only “free” country 
in the Middle East because it is not a true 
democracy.
There are currently more than 50 laws in 
Israel that discriminate against Palestinian citizens of Israel based on their ethnicity. 
They affect every aspect of daily life — 
from land ownership to family reunification 
— rendering them second-class citizens in 
their own homeland. In addition, 93 percent of the land in Israel is owned either by the state or by quasi-governmental agencies, such as the Jewish National Fund, that dis-criminate against non-Jews.
We are not asking readers to take a stance 
on everything related to the Israeli-Palestin-ian conflict. 
We are simply calling on our fellow stu-
dents to support divestment from compa-nies that are complicit in the violation of hu-man rights. We do so in the spirit of justice, as we stand in solidarity with oppressed, displaced and disadvantaged people around 
the world.
Amanda Nelson and Eric Brown 
Students for Justice in Palestine
Letter to the Editor
Let’s be real. It’s the 21st 
century, but — other than advances made in 
modern contraception — not much has changed in the world 
of sex. Names are frequently 
confused. Abandoned muscles are contin-uously being rediscovered. And, unfortu-nately, orgasms are still faked.
In 2010, a team of British researchers 
surveyed 71 heterosexual women be-tween the ages of 18 and 48, and a stun-ning 80 percent of them said that they pre-tend to climax at least half the time. Even 
more surprisingly, a 2012 poll by the New 
York Daily News revealed that 26 percent of heterosexual women admitted to fak-ing climax every single time they had sex. 
Women pretend in the bedroom more 
often than I thought, but they’re not alone.
To my fellow men who thought they 
were going to escape this column, brace yourselves. The website Datingadvice.
com surveyed more than 1,000 of its male 
members, and about one in four men ad-mitted to having faked it before. 
If you’re wondering how — Google 
it. Apparently, acting in the bedroom is something both sexes have in common.
Some of the reasons people fake cli-
max include boredom, exhaustion and lack of arousal. The most common reason 
people bring out their inner Hollywood is 
to avoid hurting a partner’s feelings. You might find yourself being influenced by a few of these motivations, but let me tell you why you should never give in.
First of all, faking it misleads your 
lover and awards them a false sense of ac-complishment. It gives them the idea that they can bring you to your most vulner-
able peak of pleasure, even if they can’t. 
Meanwhile, they’re walking around in ignorant bliss — without an actual clue of what’s really going on in the bedroom. The most important reason you should save the drama for another occasion, how-
ever, is because faking 
orgasms deprives you both of the most 
rewarding aspect of intercourse.
Sex is meant to be enjoyable for ev-
eryone involved. If you’re not absolutely thrilled, say something. You and your lov-er should already share a mature and hon-est enough relationship that welcomes these heavy conversations. 
It might be a rough wake up call for 
one or both of you, but be understanding and coach each other to success.
Faking orgasms also prevents your re-
lationship from reaching an intense level of intimacy. The ability to share such a powerful moment with your lover is a great honor; if you continuously share a fictitious climax, it will devalue the expe-
rience when it truly happens. 
Honest sex will not only strengthen the 
bond between you, but it will also make 
your relationship much more organic and profound.
Sex is not a fairy tale, and there may not 
always be a happy ending. This doesn’t mean you should add a fake one. Instead, talk about it openly, and your sexual satis-
faction will drastically improve. But while 
you become transparent in your sexual desires also make sure that you’re open to advice from your lover. Understand that bringing your partner to climax is a skill, and there is nothing wrong with teaching or learning how to do it. 
Just make sure you avoid faking it be-
cause that will only prolong the cycle of 
unsatisfactory sex. 
Christopher Wilde is a biochemistry fresh-
man. His column appears on Tuesdays.Saying no to fake orgasmsColumn
Breaking up is a hard thing 
to do.
Perhaps no fan base 
knows this better than the or-ange and blue of The Gator Na-
tion.
Even four years after stepping down as 
head coach of the Florida Gators football pro-
gram, Urban Meyer continues to be a sore subject for football fans in Gainesville.
Meyer was a god in Florida for years, in-
spiring a winning mentality and making even the most skeptical fans believe in his system.
He gave a lot of himself to the Gators over 
the years, but then he took it all back and promptly gave it to someone else — the Ohio State University Buckeyes. This left many dumbfounded, finding themselves asking, what the hell?
To put it in simpler terms, Meyer’s tenure 
with UF was exactly like everyone’s favorite animated girl-power Disney masterpiece, “Frozen.” In the movie, two sisters arrive at 
the realization — after 90 minutes of singing 
their troubles — that they are young, inde-pendent women and can accomplish any-thing with the power of love.
So is Meyer the mysterious and timid Elsa, 
who has always known she was different but only embraces it once she sets off on her own? Or maybe Meyer is the conniving Hans, who fools everyone into believing he is good when 
he is actually the worst person ever.
The characters in “Frozen” and its cre-
ators at Disney might not actually be full of 
it after all. The film raises several valid argu-ments about self-identity and self-worth. We aren’t living in a Disney movie, but Meyer’s departure from UF four years ago revealed the struggles he was going through to find the right fit for him and his family.The ugly truth is this: Meyer 
fell out of love with the Gator football program and its fans. 
Fast forward four years and 
Meyer is a champion again. He 
did it with the Gators, and now he has done it once more with the Buckeyes. He doesn’t need us anymore. He has moved on. And so 
should we.
I know more than a few UF students and 
faculty who were hoping the University of 
Oregon Ducks would crush Meyer’s Buck-eyes in the first ever College Football Playoff National Championship on Jan. 12. Instead, Meyer, dressed in the scarlet and gray of Ohio State, found himself raising the championship trophy over his head.
Meyer’s victory has provided The Gator 
Nation with the perfect opportunity to let go of something that was so good for so long. While Meyer will spend next season defend-ing his national championship title, the Gators have a clean slate. With new head coach Jim 
McElwain leading the charge, we can do any-
thing and be anything we want to next season. There is perhaps no better freedom than that.
As for the icy relationship between Florida 
Gators fans and Meyer, I say it is time to for-give and forget. We should forgive him for playing the part of the conniving Prince Hans as he has clearly proven he does not need us to win. We should do the same by embrac-
ing McElwain and welcoming in a new era of 
Gator football.
If at any point old feelings for Meyer start 
rising to the surface, just pop in your deluxe edition “Frozen” DVD and let Disney help you get over him once and for all.
As Adele Dazeem would say, just let it go. Erica Brown is a journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.Meyer: He’s just not into usColumn
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.org Erica Brown
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator
New from Old
Scott “Panhandle Slim” Stanton, 45, of Savannah, Georgia, sits with his sons Johnny Rio, 7 
(left) and Tex, 9, in front of the Hippodrome State Theatre where Stanton displayed some of his paintings Sunday. Stanton said he paints over art found in thrift stores.
LOCAL
JUSTIN ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Following a violation from a 
supplier, Chipotle has suspended 
pork sales in about one-third of its locations — including both in Gainesville.
In order to uphold its ethical 
standards, the company demands its suppliers raise pigs in humane conditions that allow the animals to have outdoor access, according to a statement released by the company.
“This is fundamentally an ani-
mal welfare decision, and is rooted in our unwillingness to compromise our standards where animal welfare is concerned,” the statement read.
Saundra TenBroeck, the under-
graduate coordinator for the UF De-partment of Animal Sciences, said there are positives and negatives to confinement versus letting animals roam free. She said some people don’t believe caging animals at any time is appropriate. Either way, she said, the restaurant has to adapt.
“If Chipotle is advertising or-
ganically grown pork and naturally raised pork, then it is incumbent on them to buy pork from producers that are raising pork in that scenario — otherwise they’re false advertis-ers,” she said. “They’re going to have to make a choice: find a sup-plier that can meet their demands or 
change the way they advertise their 
products.”
Stephen Federici, an 18-year-old 
UF mechanical engineering fresh-man, said he is unhappy Chipotle suspended pork sales but thinks the move has a positive impact.
“For Chipotle, it’s good to send 
that message to the supplier, so they get the memo,” he said.
To combat the shortage, the 
company is exploring new options 
like finding new suppliers and dif-
ferent cuts of pork, according to the statement. Chipotle has not given a timeframe for the return of pork to its stores.
Carnitas no longer available at Gainesville Chipotle restaurants
 IT DOES CUSTOM LABELING.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NORTH PORT, Fla. — Kevin Har-
ris, owner of Hot Sauce Harry’s, is a 
prime example of an entrepreneur run-
ning a successful business at the local 
level.
Hot Sauce Harry’s offers its cus-
tomers about 1,500 labeled hot sauces, barbecue sauces, seasonings and rubs, steak sauces, chili mix and salsas — and the company provides customers 
with the option to custom label these 
products any way they like. 
Located at 1077 Innovation Ave., off 
Toledo Blade Boulevard in North Port, the building serves as a distribution 
center where it ships about 100,000 
bottles of product a year to its custom-ers around the world.
“What we do here, is when a cus-
tomer places an order for a particular label, we’ll print or pull that label, ap-ply it to the unlabeled product and then ship it out,” Harris said. “We’re just a warehouse/distribution center 
here in North Port.”
Harris added what makes Hot 
Sauce Harry’s unique is the fact that 
it specializes in custom labeling and private labeling sauces. The company does no manufacturing of its product 
in North Port. Everything is co-packed 
in plants from a number of other states and shipped to the local facility, unla-beled. This means that a restaurant, for example, that wants its own logo on sauces at its tables can have that.
Harris, 51, moved Hot Sauce Har-
ry’s to North Port four years ago from Texas, where his parents started the 
business more than 20 years ago. The 
company currently employs five peo-ple, all of whom live in North Port.
“My parents started out just work-
ing at a flea market, selling other 
people’s hot sauce,” he said. “They de-
cided that they could make their own hot sauce, so they started doing that and putting their own label on it. It 
just kept growing from there. I bought 
out my parents so I could run it from North Port, where I live.”
For more information about Hot 
Sauce Harry’s, go to hotsauceharrys.com.Hot Sauce Harry’s finds 
saucy success in N. Port; entrepreneur finds spicy niche at local level
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville man who ran away after re-
portedly breaking into an apartment Wednes-
day night was arrested Friday afternoon.
According to an Alachua County Sheriff’s 
report, Shaquille Cortez Lyons, 19, ran away 
after he and Taylor William Killingsworth, 
23, broke into a Grove Villas apartment just before 6 p.m. Wednesday. The two masked gunmen stole an unknown amount of mari-juana and money from the apartment before one of the residents shot and killed Kill-ingsworth, according to the 
report. Lyons then stripped 
his clothes and ran away.
Deputies found Lyons 
walking 30 minutes after the robbery within a half mile from the apartment, accord-
ing to the report. Because the deputies didn’t have an inaccurate physical description, Ly-ons was not arrested Wednesday, said sher-iff’s office spokeswoman Sgt. Becky Butscher.
Deputies found clothing and a glass con-
tainer with marijuana near the apartment Wednesday. Lyons told deputies the clothing was his, but he denied any involvement in the robbery.
Two cell phones belonging to Lyons and 
Killingsworth were found inside Killing-sworth’s empty car outside of the apartment, according to the report. 
Lyons’ cell phone, which he told police was 
his, contained messages between Lyons and Killingsworth planning the robbery, accord-
ing to the report.
Lyons was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail shortly after 5 p.m. Friday on charges of 
criminal attempt to solicit and conspire as well as home invasion with a firearm. 
As of press time, he remained in lieu of a 
$350,000 bond.Police: Escaped man from Wednesday robbery found, arrested
Lyons
“They’re going to have to 
make a choice.”
Saundra TenBroeck
coordinator for the Department of 
Animal Sciences
“My parents started out 
just working at a flea market, 
selling other people’s hot 
sauce. They decided that they 
could make their own hot 
sauce, so they started doing 
that and putting their own 
label on it. It just kept growing 
from there. I bought out my 
parents so I could run it from 
North Port, where I live.”
Kevin Harris
ownerTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Smashing the Competition
Jacob Goodling (left), a 20-year-old UF mathematics sophomore, competes against Esaias “Leaf” Delﬁ  n, 
18, on Saturday in a Super Smash Bros. for Wii U tournament at GatorLAN.
 THEY ARE GOING TO REPEAT THE STUDY WITH OTHER PATIENTS.
SOPHIA KARNEGIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health researchers now 
have a better understanding 
of hemorrhagic stroke compli-
cations that could lead to new 
treatment options.
A study published Jan. 12 
in the Proceedings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences 
suggests that a patient’s hap-toglobin phenotype, a protein in the blood, could potentially serve as a predictor of potential 
complications for hemorrhagic 
stroke patients, said Sylvain Doré, the study’s lead author and a UF College of Medicine 
professor.
The ﬁ  ndings could be used 
to develop a better treatment, 
he said.
“This was a retrospective 
study,” he said. “Now it’s a prospective study, looking into the future.”
The study used blood 
samples and brain imaging to examine the complications that arise after a subarachnoid hemorrhage, which is mostly caused by a rupture of an an-eurysm, “the ballooning of an artery,” Doré said.  
The results indicate that pa-
tients with a certain phenotype were at a higher risk of encoun-tering cerebral vasospasm, or constriction of the arteries, 
which is one of the most com-
mon complications that can arise after a hemmhorage.
“Knowing that these pa-
tients are at risk, we would po-
tentially monitor them much 
closer,” Doré said.
The research team, which 
worked on the study for about 
two and a half years, intends 
to replicate the study to test its ﬁ  ndings on other patient pop-ulations, said Jenna Leclerc, a UF anesthesiology and neuro-
science doctoral student.
“This (study) focuses on va-
sospasm,” she said. “It would 
just as easily translate to other 
patients.”
Leclerc, who co-authored 
the study, said the ﬁ  ndings 
should provide insight on the comprehension and treatment 
of other neurological disor-
ders.
“We really need to under-
stand the mechanism ﬁ  rst,” 
Leclerc said. “That is why we 
want to extend the study fur-ther.”UF study finds DNA 
predictor for post- stroke complications
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MELBOURNE — A Florida man 
shot his wife at a shopping-mall 
food court Saturday and killed an-other person before turning the gun on himself, police say.
Gunﬁ  re rang out at the Mel-
bourne Square Mall shortly before it opened. Police said Jose Garcia-Rodriguez, of Palm Bay, shot his wife and an unidentiﬁ  ed man before shooting himself, said Cmdr. Vince Pryce of Melbourne Police. Only the wife survived.Police said Garcia-Rodriguez, 
57, died at the hospital. His wife, 33-year-old Idanerys Garcia-Rodri-guez, was hospitalized and was in 
good condition late Saturday. Police 
said she worked at the mall’s food court and said she was the “intend-ed victim.”
“We believe this may stem from a 
domestic violence incident,” he said.
No one else in the mall was killed 
or wounded.
Ofﬁ  cers evacuated the mall, as-
sisting some employees who had locked themselves in closets when they heard gunﬁ  re at around 9:30 a.m. Saturday, Pryce said.
When ofﬁ  cers found the three 
victims, Garcia “had several pockets full of ammunition,” Pryce said. Po-lice subsequently said investigators recovered three handguns at the 
site.
Donna Evans of Melbourne said 
she was in the food court when she 
heard gunﬁ  re about 25 feet away.
“You just hear the ‘pop, pop, 
pop, pop, pop, pop, pop,’ and you just drop everything and your body just makes you run,” Evans said.Fla. man shoots 2 in Melbourne mallTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-23-14-14-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-23BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 female room mates needed for a 3/2 condo near UF, along bus route, near Lucky's mar-ket. all utilities, TV, Internet, Security,fully fit-ted kitchen, furnished common areas, $450 per month per person, sorry no pets. Call Owner 208-589 6261    1-22-15-3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-ganization. Must have a background in ed or a student in the college of ed.email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   1-20-14-10-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
St. Johns River Water Management District is 
actively seeking multi-talented applicants for the position of Creative Services Specialist. Successful applicant will create web pages, design informational graphics and presenta-tions, and produce videos. For more informa-tion and to apply, visit www.floridaswater.com. EEO/DFWP/TFWP/VET PREF    1-20-15-5-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
SUMMER JOBS: Summer Camp Recreation Program: Counselors/Assistant Program Supervisors/Program Supervisors/Recreation Specialists from 6/8/15-7/31/15 for chil-dren ages 5-14 and WSI/Lifeguard. City of Plantation is (west of Ft. Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave., Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org to download application   1-23-15-4-14.Babysitter and housekeeper needed PT 9-20 hrs. per month. Must be CPR cert. Helper needed for married couple with 3 children, 3 dogs. $11/ hour. Must love kids and have cleaning and org. skills. Amber 352-226-7272    1-21-15-2-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, Energetic person.
Experience preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be available weekends.
Apply in person
Spyglass 701 SW 62nd Blvd
4-22-15-68-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Gators in the NBA
Corey Brewer led the Houston Rockets’ bench with 
13 points during Houston’s 110-98 win against the Indiana Pacers on Monday.UF baseball ranked No. 2
The inaugural D1Baseball poll, which was released on Monday, ranked the Florida baseball team No. 2 in the country, behind only defending national champion Vanderbilt.Chris Walker still has time to develop, but needs to start showing progress soon. Read the column on Page 14.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer
@EricaAlyssa
Four games into conference play, one 
would expect to see some consistency 
from a team that’s already played through some growing pains in a 13-game non-conference schedule.
But the most fans have seen from Flori-
da in conference play has been the starting lineup: Devin Robinson, Dorian Finney-Smith, Chris Walker, Kasey Hill, Chris Chiozza. It has been the same in Florida’s four Southeastern Conference games so far but the list of constants ends there.
One game it’s free-throws. The next it’s 
turnovers or three-point shots, but besides those collective team inconsistencies, in-dividual players are struggling game-to-game with their own inconsistencies. 
Coach Billy Donovan did say that one player has routinely come through.
“By far the greatest growth I’ve seen 
is in Dorian from the standpoint that he’s been relatively consistent this season,” Donovan said. “He didn’t play great in 
the game (vs. Georgia) but he’s been a con-
sistent player, unlike a year ago, so he’s made a step in the right direction there.”
Donovan couldn’t say the same about 
fellow sophomores Walker and Hill.
The Gators are fresh off their ﬁ  rst SEC 
defeat since 2013 at the hands of the Bull-dogs. Donovan’s concern now is if his team can put the disappointing defeat be-
hind them in order to be successful in the 
long list of dogﬁ  ghts ahead.
In Florida’s ﬁ  rst game since seeing the 
NCAA’s second best conference winning streak in the past 50 years snapped, the Gators (10-7, 3-1 SEC) will host LSU (13-4, GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
The losses keep mounting for 
the Gators women’s basketball 
team, and there doesn’t seem to be 
a clear solution to correct the prob-
lems that have hindered the team.
Florida suffered its worst loss 
of the season Monday night, a 77-
42 defeat to No. 1 South Carolina 
at home that was over within the 
opening minutes. After sopho-
more Ronni Williams opened the 
scoring with a layup, the Game-cocks took over, using a balanced scoring attack to beat the Gators.
Florida (9-10, 1-5 Southeastern 
Conference) had no answer to the 
inside presence of the Gamecocks 
(18-0, 6-0 SEC), with UF’s post players being unable to defend the paint.
South Carolina was eager to 
dump the ball down low to for-wards Aleighsa Welch and A’ja Wilson, who got everything they wanted on the way to scoring 46 
points in the paint. Tiffany Mitch-
ell led the way with 18 points on 8-for-10 shooting.
Coach Amanda Butler was dis-
appointed with the team’s execu-tion, saying the team practiced far better than they played against the Gamecocks.
“We gave them a lot of really 
easy looks in transition,” Butler said. “We weren’t communicat-ing, weren’t getting back, weren’t stopping the ball. We didn’t really do a good job in anything in tran-sition.” 
Reeling from the loss of junior 
Antoinette Bannister, who was kicked off the team on Friday after 
her arrest for credit card theft, the 
Gators bench was sorely lacking in production. 
“We’re just gonna really focus 
on what we have and what we can do,” Butler said in reference to the loss of Bannister. “Losses and people that aren’t here - we’re not going to give that any energy. 
I think we have great potential on 
our bench.”
Florida got just 23 points from 
its bench, with the majority of the 
points coming from Williams who 
had a team-best 12 for the Gators. Williams sat out for most of the second half after fouling out with 11:41 left to play.
Cassie Peoples has been un-
able to get out of the shooting slump that’s plagued her through-out SEC play. The redshirt junior 
guard went 1-for-12 from the ﬁ  eld, 
her only points coming on a late jumper in the closing minutes, while turning the ball over four times for a Gators offense that was 
unable to ﬁ  nd any form of consis-
tency the entire night. 
The strength of South Carolina 
left little room for error, and the Florida thrashed by No. 1 South Carolina, season woes continue
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Sophomore Ronni Williams drives down the lane during Florida’s 77-42 loss to No. 1 South Carolina 
on Monday in the O’Connell Center. Williams — who fouled out with 11:41 left in the game — scored a team-high 12 points in the loss.
INSTAGRAHAM
Antoinette Bannister 
threw away an op-portunity that many 
people would kill to have. 
Bannister was kicked off 
the UF women’s basketball team on Friday after she 
reportedly stole teammate 
Viktorija Dimaite’s credit card and used it at multiple stores in Gainesville. If the reports are true – and they likely are, seeing as Bannister 
admitted to police she used the card 
– then Bannister will have a hard time getting back in the basketball commu-nity.
Trust is an essential part of basket-
ball. 
You have to trust your teammates, 
trust your coaches, and trust the pro-gram. Your team becomes your family, your coaches are your parents.
When Bannister trans-
ferred to Florida in January 2013, she was regarded as a steal for the Gators. The 
state of Florida’s all-time 
leading prep scorer, things 
didn’t quite work out for Bannister at the University of North Carolina. So she transferred back to her home state, 
the state she set numerous records in, 
the state she was comfortable in. She had a fresh opportunity, and she’s thrown it all away.
No Division I program will touch 
Bannister even if she avoids jail time and gets a chance to play anywhere Antoinette Bannister threw 
basketball career awayInconsistent UF men’s 
basketball hosts LSU
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15“I’ve never felt in any of 
the ﬁ  ve losses that we’ve 
(been) outmatched.”
Kayla Lewis
UF women’s basketball player
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer@CayUnderwood
Oliver Landert stepped up on 
Friday.
In just the second dual meet of 
his career, the redshirt freshman 
clinched the match-winning point 
in No. 13 Florida’s 5-2 win against 
Troy, sweeping the Trojans’ Daniel Bustamante 6-4, 6-2.
Landert was originally lined up 
to compete in the No. 6 spot on Fri-day, but after junior Diego Hidalgo 
was pulled out of rotation due to an 
injury sustained in doubles, Landert moved up to the No. 5 court.
“I was really excited to move 
from Court No. 6 to Court No. 5 but it was kind of weird starting out be-cause there was a lot of shade on the court and it was difﬁ  cult getting into a rhythm,” Landert said. “But I was 
really excited to play, and clinching 
my ﬁ  rst match was awesome. I re-ally enjoyed being out there.”
Once Landert got the ball roll-
ing, there was no stopping him and the redshirt freshman said he didn’t want to stop either.
“I almost wanted to stay out there 
a little longer,” the right-handed hit-ter said. “Once I got past the ﬁ  rst set, I had to grind a little bit, but in that second set I just wanted to stay out there forever.” 
This match is the ﬁ  rst of many 
clinches Landert hopes to secure this season.
With two matches under their 
belt and two victories to show for it, the Gators look to keep the winning streak going as they head into the ITA Kick-off Weekend on Saturday and Sunday.
But coach Bryan Shelton still sees 
room for improvement.
“We’ve got to have a better 
mindset for the big points,” Shel-ton said. “We’ve got to play a little bit more aggressively and a little bit more freely on those points. ... The next time hopefully we’ll make the mistake of playing too aggressively and then we’ll ﬁ  nd a balance. If we’re playing too safe all the time, it 
doesn’t allow us to be great. I don’t 
want to just hold onto something good, I want to go after something great.““Nothing haunts us like prom-ise unfulﬁ  lled.” Simple, poi-gnant and powerful words 
spoken by Michael Wilbon in the ESPN 30for30 “Benji.” 
The words hit hard because 
they’re true, and they ring loud-est when I think about Chris Walker, the player with easily the most promise on Florida’s bas-ketball team and one of the most hyped players to come through Gainesville during Billy Donovan’s tenure.
I ﬁ  nd myself enamored with 
Walker, and I can’t get over it.
Perhaps it’s the normal simple 
fascination with potential — I mean, his athleticism is otherworldly. 
I watched him get beat running 
back down the court on defense Thursday against Auburn, only to recover to have a devastating block 
from behind.
Those are the ﬂ  ashes. That’s 
what keeps you coming back for 
more.
That’s why I refuse to stop cling-
ing to this dogged belief that Chris Walker will do what he hasn’t yet, and that is not anywhere near the immense expectations so many had 
for him.
Yes, the hype was lofty, but 
that’s the world we live in — of 
YouTube highlights with him swat-ting shots into next-never and rock-ing rims in AAU competition. 
But it doesn’t come out of no-
where. 
Walker has skills, but they just 
are not developing at the rate that similar lanky phenoms have in the past. 
He has the natural length to re-
bound at a high rate and the quick leaping ability to jump out of the gym at a moment’s notice. He showed an ounce of a face-up jumper in the loss against Georgia — develop that con-sistently and Walker 
could really max out 
his potential.
Coach Billy Dono-
van knew this was go-ing to happen, knew that the clips of him protecting the rim against competition a foot shorter than him at Bonifay (Fla.) Holmes County High wouldn’t immediately transfer into a double-double machine in the Southeastern Confer-
ence. 
It’s not add-water-
instant-first-rounder, 
no matter what Ken-tucky coach John Cali-
pari may lead you to believe. 
Mix in a suspension that sits 
Walker out for 40 percent of the sea-son and as Donovan tells it, the leg-end only grew from there because he was out of sight and out of mind. 
Now he’s not. He’s on your TV 
for right around 15 minutes a game 
as Florida’s starting center — that’s 
another part of the problem.
Walker said Monday he can 
play up to 30, but his coach thinks otherwise. 
But Donovan sees him struggle 
to push through “cardiovascular pain” and knows he needs to push harder.
To Walker’s credit, I think he 
gets it. This doesn’t strike me as a situation where Walker’s not listen-ing to coaching or he’s too dumb to 
understand coaching from a bas-
ketball IQ standpoint or worse, just a lost cause. 
I think that, simply put, it’s tak-
ing longer than any of us thought would be the case to develop him into a good player. 
He even said Monday that he 
has played “horrible” in Florida’s 
most recent games. He says things 
turned for him mentally over Thanksgiving during the Bahamas trip, when he started telling himself he needs to play harder. 
For him, I think the want-to is 
there to get better, but want-to isn’t good enough to get the job done at  this level. 
There must be practical appli-
cations of your will to win via im-plementation of what coaches are teaching you, how they communi-cate what they need from you. 
That’s where Walker struggles, 
getting what he’s hearing from Donovan, John Pelphrey, Rashon Burno and Matt McCall from his 
brain to the practice court, then by 
extension the O’Connell Center ﬂ  oor. 
Will he? I don’t know, you don’t 
either, and I’m not sure even Chris knows.
But he does have what Ben Wil-
son — the subject of that 30for30 — doesn’t.
He has time to fulﬁ  ll his prom-
ise. 
Wilson’s time was stolen from 
him; Walker has so much in front of him.
What he does with it is up to 
him. 14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore center Chris Walker dribbles during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn on Thursday 
in the O’Connell Center. Even though he has shown ﬂ  ashes of potential in his ﬁ  rst two years at UF, the high school McDonald’s All-American has yet to ﬂ  ourish at the collegiate level.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman Oliver Landert hits a jump-step forehand during Florida’s 9-3 win against William & Mary on Jan. 10 at the Ring Tennis Complex. Landert clinched Florida’s 5-2 win against Troy on Friday, defeated the Trojans’ Daniel Bustamante in straight sets (6-4, 6-2) on the No. 5 court. UF will host Ole Miss, South Carolina and Stanford at the ITA Kick-Off Weekend on Saturday and Sunday.
JOHNSON’S JOURNAL
Chris Walker showing ﬂ  ashes of potential, has time to develop
Landert not ready to stop as UF men’s tennis season progresses
RichardJohnson
twitter: @RagjUF
“Once I got past the ﬁ  rst 
set, I had to grind a little 
bit, but in that second set I 
just wanted to stay out there 
forever.”
Oliver Landert
UF redshirt freshman tennis playerALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer@alexmaminakis
Well, she’s not in Gainesville 
any more. In fact, she’s headed 
about as far away as she possibly 
can while playing professional 
soccer in the United States.
Seattle Reign FC picked 
Gainesville native and now for-
mer Gator soccer great Havana 
Solaun 15th overall in the Nation-al Women’s Soccer League draft on Friday at the National Soccer Coaches Association of America 
Convention in Philadelphia. 
Solaun was one of two Seattle 
picks in this year’s draft.
The midfielder, a graduate 
of Buchholz High School, has 
been a standout soccer player in Gainesville from an early age all the way through 
her four strong 
years with the 
Gators. Solaun earned All-Southeastern  Conference first 
team honors in 2013 and 2014, and as a senior this past fall she recorded career highs in goals (nine), assists (nine) and points 
(27). 
Solaun was among the group 
of eight seniors who bid farewell 
to the Gators program last fall with a loss in the NCAA Quarter-
finals. She finished 10th all-time 
in Gator history in goals (30), sixth in assists (32) and tied for eighth in points (92).
Solaun graduated in December 
with her bachelor’s degree in psy-
chology. 
Now she prepares for the next 
chapter of her life in Seattle as a 
professional soccer player.
Gamecocks frequently capi-talized on Florida’s mistakes.
Kayla Lewis said the team 
needs to start playing the way they’ve practiced. De-spite Florida being unable to execute like it knows how, 
Lewis said she’s trying not to 
get frustrated with the team’s flawed performance. 
“Of course you don’t want 
to start the SEC 1-5,” Lewis 
said. “As a leader of a team, 
your frustration trickles down to everybody else. Ev-ery day, I just try and go out and have a lot of effort and 
keep the team encouraged 
because there are so many positives ... I’ve never felt in any of the five losses that 
we’ve (been) outmatched. I 
think that we’ve self-inflicted a lot of the reasons that we lost games. Because of that, I think it’s on accountability 
and holding everybody to a 
high standard.”
“If you watched our prac-
tices, you’d be surprised that 
we played the way we played 
because we practice very 
hard.”TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Dorian Finney-Smith leads subpar Florida in scoring this season
2-2 SEC) at 7 p.m in the O’Connell 
Center.
LSU’s starting forwards Jarell 
Martin and Jordan Mickey are averaging more than 15 points 
per game. No Gator player is cur-
rently averaging more than 14 points per game. Finney-Smith leads the Gators with an average 13.9 per game.
“Those two guys are really, 
really talented good players, and you know we’re gonna have to be position-wise in some very, 
very good spots, but I think that 
we’ve got to play team defense,” Donovan said. “This is a very, very explosive team offensively, extremely explosive. Everybody on that floor, for them, you can honestly say that on any given night any one of those guys could go for 25.”
Getting through to his players 
is a top priority for Donovan go-ing into tonight’s game. He said he didn’t think he was able to ac-complish that before the Georgia game and the team suffered from that.
“I don’t think, in my opinion, 
I did a very good job of getting 
our guys emotionally, mentally 
ready to play,” Donovan said. “In terms of what I did do, we didn’t respond. To me, that was the dis-appointing part for me on a quick turnaround -- that I could have done a better job.”
He thinks this failure mani-
fested itself on the court in vari-
ous forms, which include a lack 
of focus, intensity and together-ness exhibited by his team.
Moving past the Georgia loss 
may be easier said than done, but with more than two full days be-tween games, Donovan is hope-ful his young team can pull to-gether to correct the major cracks 
in their game that the Bulldogs 
exposed—specifically, turnovers. The gators committed a season-high 19 of them against Georgia. Donovan said he would have ex-pected something close to that number against South Carolina (in which Florida committed 17 turnovers) or Auburn (13 turn-
overs) but not necessarily against 
Georgia.
“There have been some games 
where there wasn’t a lot of pres-sure, we turned it over, not turned it over,” Donovan said. “We talk about it, address and try to keep getting them better, but your guess would be as good 
as mine as far as how we handle 
that (tonight).” HOOPS , from page 13
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith passes the ball during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn on Thursday in the 
O’Connell Center. The redshirt junior forward leads the Gators with 13.9 points per game. UF hosts LSU tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center.
Bannister’s selfish actions will prove costly in the future
else. The Gators, along with coach Amanda Butler, wel-
comed her as a transfer to their program and she threw it in their face.
Dimaite, who has had arguably the worst luck with in-
juries of any UF athlete, was taken advantage of in this situation. How selfish of Bannister – not just monetarily, but opportunistically – to prey upon an athlete who has 
waited more than three years for the opportunity to play 
for the Gators. 
Dimaite rehabbed from a dislocated ankle, and then 
from two ACL tears, just to be betrayed by a teammate  — someone she was supposed to put her trust in. By some-
one who was supposed to work with her to grow, as a basketball player and as a human being.
Bannister is a thief, and unless the allegations are some-
how fabricated, she will deservedly be treated as such. 
Before her recent string of injuries, Butler stated that 
Bannister had been playing her best basketball since she 
had been a Gator. 
She let Butler down, who believed in her. She let down 
her family – her brother TJ who, like Antoinette, played basketball his entire life, first at the University of Virginia 
and then professionally overseas. 
She let down her father, Tony Bannister, who spent his 
time coaching Antoinette in high school.
Antoinette Bannister is 21 – a lot of 21-year-olds make 
mistakes. Her life is far from over, and she has plenty of 
opportunities to make something of herself. And I hope, from a humanistic standpoint, that she sees nothing but success and happiness.
But this is a mistake that may blacklist her from the 
basketball community. The entire incident is extremely 
sad and disheartening, for the Gators, for the Bannister 
family, but most importantly, for Dimaite.
Viktorija Dimaite left her entire life in Lithuania to 
come to Gainesville to play basketball – first for The Rock School and then for Butler’s Gators. She’s experienced 
hardship and pain before, but this is a different kind of 
pain. 
This kind doesn’t go away with rehab and surgery. It’s 
going to be hard for her to trust teammates again, and I 
can’t blame her. Trust doesn’t come easily, and once it’s 
lost, it sometimes never comes back again.COLUMN , from page 13Former UF soccer player drafted in 
National Women’s Soccer League
W-HOOPS ,
 from page 13The Gators are 1-5 in 
SEC play this season
Solaun
Other Gators in the National 
Women’s Soccer League
 Adriana Leon 
       — Chicago Red Stars Erika Tymrak        — FC Kansas City Abby Wambach        — Western New York Flash Kathryn Williamson        —  Portland Thorns TCGRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer@graham_hack24
Perfection is hard to come by in gym-
nastics.
Every step, twist and turn is scruti-
nized, and during the early parts of a col-
legiate season, those nuances are far from refined.
It takes time to reach peak form.
Nevertheless, UF senior Kytra Hunter 
expects nothing short of excellence from 
herself each time she competes, even though the season is barely two weeks old.
“We gotta get the kinks out at the be-
ginning of the season because we don’t want things like this to happen at the end of the season,” Hunter said after the co-No. 1 Florida’s (2-0, 1-0 Southeastern 
Conference) 197.200-195.650 victory over 
No. 19 Auburn (1-1, 0-1 SEC) on Friday night. “I’m pretty hard on myself, so I was bummed, and I let emotions out on the floor that I shouldn’t have.” 
To hear her talk, one would think her 
performance had led to a team loss.
Her floor routine earned a 9.875, a score 
that would have left many gymnasts satis-
fied. 
But for Hunter, who has scored four 
perfect marks on floor in her career, the 
routine was unacceptable.The 2012 NCAA vault champion also 
scored an uncharacteristically low 9.825 in Florida’s opening rotation, but it was still tied for the third best vault among her teammates.
The senior was silently fuming after-ward, however, and even after freshman 
teammate Alex McMurtry followed her on 
vault with a perfect 10, Hunter remained quiet and focused, not talking to anyone during the time between each rotation.
The intensity was palpable as soon as she began her bars routine, and she scored 
a 9.900.
She followed that up with another 9.900 
on beam, and ultimately earned a share of 
the all-around title with Auburn’s Caitlin Atkinson, scoring a 39.500.
“Kytra’s a perfectionist,” coach Rhonda 
Faehn said. 
“That’s exactly why she’s as amazing of 
an athlete as she is, because she demands 
and expects a lot of herself, and she went 
out and she wants to be able to pull in those 10s.”
“I told her I felt there was tremendous 
improvement in her bars and her beams 
this week, and that was huge. Vault and 
floor, I know she can do it anytime. It’s just a little off here and there, but I’m not con-cerned. … She’s a tough cookie.”
Hunter and her Gator teammates will 
get a full week of training this week, a luxury they didn’t have leading into the Auburn meet.
That time to hone in on the details will 
be just what Hunter is looking for as she prepares for Florida’s next challenge, a road meet against Alabama.
To beat the Crimson Tide, the Gators 
will have to be much better than last week.
But for Hunter to be satisfied, they’d 
better be perfect.16, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2015
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Kytra Hunter performs her floor exercise during Florida’s 197.200-195.650 win 
against Auburn on Friday in the O’Connell Center.
GYMNASTICS
Kytra Hunter not satisfied with performance against Auburn
Banister averaged 6.2 points per game this season before arrest
longer part of the team.
The card was used at Macy’s and Modern Nails and Spa, 
both in the Oaks Mall, on Nov. 12, according to the report. 
Bannister then used the card on Nov. 13 at Hibbett Sports 
in Butler Plaza, along with Footlocker in the Oaks Mall and 
Gold Standard West pawn shop, located at 2530 SW 34th St.
Bannister told police on Friday that she found the credit 
card outside the practice facility and later admitted to using the card at the stores. 
According to the report, Bannister told officers she threw 
the card away after using it.
Bannister, a family, youth and community sciences junior 
from Jacksonville, had missed Florida’s last two games prior to the arrest with an ankle sprain and sat out three earlier games this season with a concussion.
The 5-foot-10 guard played in 13 games this season — in-
cluding three starts. Bannister averaged 6.2 points per game 
on 44.1 percent shooting.UF coach Amanda Butler said on Jan. 7 that Bannister, 
who transferred to UF from the University of North Caro-
lina in January 2013, was beginning to come into her own as a player before suffering a concussion.
“Antoinette, I think, was playing as good of basketball 
as she has played since she’s been at Florida,” Butler said. “She’s just had really high offensive expectations for herself, which was something we were kind of missing.”
Staff Writer Jordan McPherson contributed to this report.BASKETBALL , from page 1