VOLUME 109 ISSUE 119 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
79/63
 Westwood sixth graders embrace hands-
on, outdoor curriculum
It received a grant from U.S. Forest Service, pg. 5. Ward’s celebrates customers with appreciation week
It starts today and ends Tuesday, pg 5.  
Project crowdfunds to store homeless ID documents
They need to raise at least $6,000, pg 4. Florida’s softball 
team lost its ﬁ  rst 
SEC series of the 
season this weekend. 
Read the story on 
Page 14.
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Jay Curtis, a city commission at-large seat candidate, speaks to a crowd of supporters at 101 Downtown on Tuesday.Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Harvey Budd and his wife Ilene Silverman react to the city commission election results at the Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce on Tuesday. 
LOCAL
STAFF REPORT
While turnout was low for Tuesday night’s Gainesville 
City Commission elections, voters have another chance to 
cast their ballots during two run-off elections next month.
Commissioner Yvonne Hinson-Rawls and Charles Ed-
ward Goston Sr. of District 1 will face off in a runoff elec-
tion April 14. Hinson-Rawls received 37.18 percent of votes 
while Goston received 26.53 percent, according to the Super-visor of Elections website.
At-Large Seat 1 candidates Harvey M. Budd and Jay Cur-
tis will also go against each other in a runoff election the same day. Budd received 33.31 percent, and Curtis came away with 32.31 percent.
The results showed 9,355 out of 74,621 registered voters 
— or 12.54 percent — showed up to vote, which was lower than last year’s turnout of just under 11,000.
“Well, I have to go through a runoff now to determine 
who the real winner is,” Hinson-Rawls said following the results. “So that feels like an albatross hanging around my neck.”
But Hinson-Rawls said she is ready to continue her cam-
paign.
“I’ve got to get some rest and clear my head and see what 
God is going to lead me to do with this next phase,” she said.
Budd said he hopes to draw votes from supporters of Adrian Hayes-Santos, who he said has similar political views.
“It was an amazing experience,” said Hayes-Santos, who 
received 300 fewer votes than Curtis.
Curtis said he’s at peace regardless of how it all ends.“I’m a better person for doing this,” he said. “I’ve learned 
a lot about Gainesville, a lot about this process.”
But just before 8 p.m., when Hayes-Santos, who earned 
29.11 percent of the vote, called to congratulate him on mak-ing the runoff, Curtis said he felt elated and excited.
Curtis predicted the runoff between himself and Budd, 
and he said he was energized heading into the runoff City Commission election low turnout results in two runoffs
CYANNE DUNN and EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writers cdunn@alligator.org
ecardinali@alligator.org
Several articles have been written late-
ly regarding whether enrollment of Afri-
can-American/black students at UF has drastically decreased.
After the Alligator received a letter 
from the Florida Board of Governors that objected to the ﬁ  ndings of the articles due to several mitigating factors, we decided to investigate the matter.
After more than a month of crunching 
data and speaking with students and fac-ulty about race, ethnicity, socio-economic status and what each person’s individual experience brings to the UF community, we’ve developed a  report of the recent trends for African-American/black and Hispanic/Latino enrollment at the uni-versity. 
Enrollment numbers at UF have ﬂ  uc-
tuated for all backgrounds, but the most noteworthy were the decrease in black/African-American student enrollment and an increase in Hispanic/Latino students.
For a conclusive report, turn to pages 
eight and nine. For those interested, a more in-depth breakdown of how we came to our conclusions, including raw data and formulated statistics, is available on our website at alligator.org.Report on UF enrollment 
reveals trends, barriers
SEE ENROLLMENT, PAGES 8-9SEE ELECTION, PAGE 4
 HE IS IN CRITICAL CONDITION.
ALEX HARRIS
Alligator Staff Writer aharris@alligator.org
A Gainesville man is in critical condi-
tion after he was hit by a car early Tues-
day. The accident closed down part of University Avenue for several hours.
Just before midnight Monday, a 
49-year-old man was passing through the plants in the median in front of Mother’s Pub and Grill, at 1017 W. Uni-versity Ave., Gainesville Police spokes-man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
The man was then was hit by a white Tacoma pickup truck driving eastbound 
on West University Avenue. As of press 
time, police have not yet released the 
man’s name.
He was taken to UF Health Shands 
Hospital, where as of Tuesday morning 
he was being treated for serious, life-threatening head and internal injuries, 
Tobias said.
Ofﬁ  cers blocked off University Av-
enue between 10th and 12th streets 
with yellow tape for about two hours as Mother’s patrons watched a forensic in-
vestigator photograph pieces of debris 
in the road. 
Police are continuing to investigate 
the accident.Pedestrian injured in crashNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 119 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarSUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
RAIN
82/57PARTLY 
CLOUDY
84/61SUNNY
86/61THUNDER-
STORMS
82/61PARTLY 
CLOUDY
79/63WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Fulbright Speakers Lecture 
Series presents “Plant Biology 
Mini-Symposium”This event takes place Friday from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
in Fifield Hall, Rooms 1304-08. 
The presenters are Emilio M. Bruna, department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation and the Center for Latin American Studies, a Faculty Fulbright Scholar in 2009-2010 in Brazil; Annette Fahrenkrog, a Fulbright Ph.D. student from 
Chile in the Plant Molecular and 
Cellular Biology Program in the School of Forest Resources and Conservation; and Lilit Vardanyan, a Senior Research Scientist, UNESCO Chair — Life Sciences International Postgraduate Educational Center (Armenia), current 
Visiting Fulbright Scholar in 
the Soil and Water Sciences Department. For additional in-formation, please contact Dr. Charles Guy.
GatorNights
The land of Panem welcomes you to the epicenter of all of the 
districts, The Capitol, on Friday 
from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. Become a person of the Capitol and revel in luxury with massages, elaborate jewelry making and a Capitol fashion show from Pride Struts Its Stuff. The Mockingjay has a mes-sage for the people of Panem 
— a special outdoor show-
ing of the movie “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 1” at 9 p.m. on the North Lawn. Should weather turn damp, the Mockingjay’s message will still be broadcast at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. We’re always Friday, always 
free, with your Gator 1 Card.
Gator Open Climb
Come out to Lake Wauburg’s 
South Shore for a once-a-se-mester opportunity to climb to new heights. RecSports is now offering two days of climbing and adventure on 
the 40-foot-tall Alpine Tower that Sgt. Eric Alva was the 
first soldier to be injured in the Iraq War. Alva is a U.S. 
Marine, and he was the first 
American to be injured in the 
Iraq War.
A story published Tuesday 
under the headline “Local 
man stabbed following fight 
about pack of cigarettes,” in-
correctly stated that the inci-dent in question occurred at 
Grace Marketplace. It actually 
occurred at Dignity Village, 
which is on the outskirts of Grace Marketplace. The Alligator was misinformed 
by the Gainesville Police 
Department.and the High Ropes and 
Elements Challenge Course 
on Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The High Ropes and Elements Challenge Course will be open climb for pre-registered students Saturday and the Alpine Tower (no registration necessary) will be open climb 
Sunday. No equipment is 
needed, but a Gator 1 Card is.
Weekend Warrior: Training for 
PowerJoin RecSports on Saturday for Weekend Warrior: Training for Power from 1 to 2 p.m. in the Student 
Recreational Center Cardio 
Functional Area. With equip-ment ranging from kettlebells to plyo boxes, this workshop will highlight the benefits of training for power and high-light several exercises used for successful training. No registration is required, and 
the event is free for UF stu-
dents.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper. 
CORRECTIONS
A photo caption published 
Tuesday incorrectly stated 2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Allison Deutch / Alligator
International Tea Time
Malissa Alinor (right), a UF sociology senior and VISA treasurer, serves tea to students at the VISA Inter-
national Coffee and Tea event. The event served a variety of beverages, ranging from Albanian teas to Italian coffees. Alinor, 22, said it was a “global experience in your taste buds.”
 IT’S THE 10TH ANNUAL APPRECIATION WEEK.
LILIANNE BUSTO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ward’s Supermarket is tak-
ing time to appreciate its cus-
tomers this week.
Beginning today and end-
ing Tuesday, Ward’s Super-market, at 515 NW 23rd Ave., will celebrate Customer Ap-preciation Week.
Ward’s Supermarket, open 
since 1951, is the only locally owned and family-operated grocery store in Gainesville.
Trish Ward, an owner of 
the supermarket, said employ-ees are honoring customers for keeping it running strong despite all the stores around it.
Russ Welker, the manager 
of the natural foods depart-ment, said Customer Appreci-ation Week has been held once a year for the past 10 years.
He said there will be ap-
preciation-week discounts throughout the store.
“It’s to say thank you to all 
of our wonderful customers,” Welker said.
One of those customers is 
Christa Tarantino, a UF psy-chology and criminology se-nior. The 22-year-old said she 
plans to go this week to check 
out the deals.
“Ward’s to me means hav-
ing great quality food, that can’t-be-beat (price) all in one place,” Tarantino said.
Welker said there will be 
taste testings and free sam-ples, including cheese, fruit, vegetables, bread and wine from around the world.
Ward’s Supermarket is 
known for its product selec-tion, quality and prices. It sells a variety of fresh, local produce, seafood, meat, bread and wine, which keep cus-tomers like Tarantino coming back.
Tarantino said Customer 
Appreciation Week is a great way to bring in people who have never shopped there be-fore.
“I ﬁ  rst decided to go to 
Ward’s to check out their lo-cal products, and I ended up falling in love with their prices and the supermarket atmo-sphere that they have,” Taran-tino said.
Ward said the store has a 
wide and loyal customer base.
“We have a relationship 
with all of our customers,” Ward said. “They are not only customers but also friends.”Ward’s celebrates 
customers withappreciation weekARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Giggles, ice cream and commit-
tee chair appointments made up 
Tuesday night’s UF Senate meeting.
The new senators unanimously 
approved committee seats for bud-
get, allocations, judiciary, rules and 
ethics, and information and commu-nication within the ﬁ  rst few minutes of the meeting.
Information and communication 
chairman Sen. Sean Carey, Swamp, and Rules and Ethics Committee member Sen. Maddie McClinton, Swamp, presented an overview of 
Senate rules and procedures to the new senators.
McClinton explained to sena-
tors that they have to participate in 
events outside of Senate to interact with their constituents.
“Your role as a senator extends 
Tuesday nights,” she said.
Following the packed informa-
tion session, UF Student Senate President Davis Bean, Swamp, an-nounced the new senators would practice passing resolutions about ice cream sundaes to learn parlia-mentary procedures.
Sen. Jason Richards, Swamp, au-
thored the bill and declared bacon as the ofﬁ  cial sundae topping for Sen-ate, and no other toppings would 
be endorsed. Sen. Saneh Ste.Claire, 
Access, said the resolution should be amended because it excluded veg-etarians. Richards replied, “I think everyone loves bacon.”
After the ice cream debate, Senate 
President Pro-Tempore Sen. Leah Miller, Swamp, urged senators who were not selected to serve on a com-
mittee to look into special projects.
The meeting ended with an ice 
cream social.Senate debates ice cream toppings
“I think everyone loves 
bacon.”
Sen. Jason Richards
Swamp Party senatorelection.
“We’re off to another stage here,” Curtis 
told a crowd of about 40 supporters inside 
101 Downtown. “We have to do everything we’ve done, but harder.”He congratulated his opponents for a 
clean race, including Donald Shepherd 
Sr., who stopped outside the restaurant to 
pledge his support to Curtis.
“This is the kind of man that needs to 
win, not Harvey Budd,” he told Curtis with tears in his eyes.Budd spent the day campaigning out-
side the Trinity United Methodist Church 
at 4000 NW 53rd Ave., or voter precinct 45.
But his positivity was weighed down by 
the poor turnout.
“We work so hard, and it’s disappoint-
ing when you don’t get a lot of people vot-
ing,” Budd said.
“We are the Champions,” by Queen 
played at Vellos Historic Brickstreet Grill as Budd walked in with his wife. He was 
met with hugs and high fives from his 
supporters while his wife Ilene Silverman jumping with excitement by his side.
After the results, Silverman squealed, 
“We did it,” before breaking into a dance outside the Supervisor of Elections Office. Before results came out, she prayed and paced in front of the screen with election 
numbers.
“I feel elated,” Silverman said. “My 
husband came out on top.”
Ben Meyers, who was running for the 
At-Large seat until withdrawing in Decem-
ber 2014, was at Vellos in support of Budd.
“I stacked my resume to his, and I 
thought, ‘How can I possibly stack up?’” Meyers said. “This guy is so qualified, it would be a travesty not to elect him.”
Goston said he is confident about the 
runoff against Hinson-Rawls.
“I am very confident that the people 
will have an opportunity to make a really good decision because that third person won’t be there,” he said.
Goston said the other candidates spent 
more money on their campaigns than he did, but he had better name recognition.
“When you’re fighting against a ma-
chine that don’t want to see change,” Gos-ton said, “it means that you’ve got to fight harder. You’ve got to fight longer.”4, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Charles Goston, Sr., a candidate for City 
Commission District 1, hugs Annie Orlan -
do, a supporter of his campaign, Tuesday night outside Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza on West University Avenue after hearing that he will be in the runoff election. Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Commissioner Yvonne Hinson-Rawls smiles as she speaks with family and supporters in her home Tuesday night. The results of the election have Hinson-Rawls, who received 37.18 percent of the vote, facing Charles Goston Sr. in a runoff.
LOCAL
TAYLOR CASALA
Alligator Contributing Writer
First Magnitude Brewing 
Company is teaming up with 
the Alachua County Humane Society to help homeless pets of Gainesville.
The ACHS is hosting “Find 
Your Lucky Charm” from 6 to 9 p.m. Thursday at First Magni-tude Brewing, located at 1220 SE Veitch St.
Megan Stennes, a public rela-
tions intern at the ACHS, said tickets are $15 and can be pur-chased in advance through their 
Facebook page or at the door on 
the night of the event. Tickets guarantee food, beer in a First Magnitude souvenir pint glass and live music by the Last Men on Earth, Endless Pools and Blue Herons. All proceeds will benefit the animals cared for at the hu-mane society.
The ACHS is a nonprofit orga-
nization that has been protecting, rehabilitating and adopting out animals in the community for more than 35 years.
Stennes said it costs about 
$350 to vaccinate, neuter/spay and care for each animal that comes into the humane society.
The humane society is striving 
to end animal euthanasia in Ala-
chua County, Stennes said.
It take in homeless pets from 
animal services, and the proceeds from the event will help it contin-
ue to protect and care for those animals.
“What we are doing here is im-
perative to saving animals lives,” said Erica Corbett, an adoption counselor at the ACHS. “We are 
dedicated to seeing every animal 
that doesn’t have a home find a forever home.”
Humane Society to hold benefit at First Magnitude brewery
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
St. Francis House resident Scott LeValley has two things that 
show who he is: a social security card and a driver’s license.
“I don’t keep any documents,” LeValley, 53, said. “I think 
very few people around here do.”
He has no birth certificate. No voter ID. No insurance card. 
No picture of him with his children.
“It’s hard to get those documents if they were lost along the 
way,” said Mark Watson, the social security and benefits ad-vocate for the homeless at Three Rivers Legal Services, which helps the elderly, homeless and poor.
Watson is raising money on IndieGogo, a crowdfunding 
website, for a project that would help homeless people scan and store their documents and information on a cloud-based storage system, such as Google Drive or Dropbox. If the project 
raises enough money to cover the cost of a laptop and a por-
table scanner and laminator, LeValley would be able to scan his social security card into a personal, online account.  
Secured there, it wouldn’t get wet, wrinkled, lost or stolen.Three Rivers Legal Services’ executive director, Christine 
Larson, said that identification is often required for assistance programs, such as social security disability, unemployment and the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program.
“(Not having documents) can be a huge impediment for 
people,” she said. “How do they get a bus pass if they can’t prove who they are to get the bus pass?”
Documents are essential to go anywhere and do anything, 
Larson said.
“Without identification, you can’t access really any services 
in our society,” she said.
The project was posted on the website IndieGogo on Feb. 14 
and will continue to collect donations until April 15. To make it successful, Three Rivers needs to raise at least $6,000, Watson said. If that goal is surpassed, Three Rivers will put the money toward other projects that would benefit homeless, such as buying food.
Watson said he hopes to help people upload their files to 
a cloud service so that they can be accessed at any time. With the project funds, he would also type and laminate cards with directions for accessing and downloading documents.
By using portable devices, Watson said he would be able to 
go anywhere to meet those who need the service.
“That’s the beauty of it,” he said.The stored scans of documents may not fully replace origi-nal documents in all cases, Larson said, but they will aid in re-placing stolen or lost originals.
Those participating in the project could also scan personal 
photographs or write down memories, Watson said.
LeValley said he wishes he had pictures of his three chil-
dren because they are the best thing that happened to him. He said he cherishes his memories of their births.
“But I don’t want to write that down and keep it — I know 
I got it here,” he said, pointing to his head.
Trevor Parish, who has been living with LeValley at St. 
Francis House for about three weeks, said he would have to keep his documents on him if he didn’t have a friend close by who was willing to help him.
Parish, who said he became homeless after he was unfairly 
arrested and put in jail, is working on getting back the house that he owned, along with his business, Parish Framing, LLC.
“I came out here with just what I had on my back,” the 
45-year-old said.  “I had to find out how to get around this. I didn’t even know Gainesville, and I had to find out what I had to do to start getting help.”Project crowdfunds to store homeless identifying documents
Runoff candidates prepare for more campaigning
ELECTION , from page 1“Without identification, you can’t access really 
any services in our society”
Christine Larson
executive director of Three RiversDocuments such as birth certificates, IDs
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
JERUSALEM (AP) — Israeli 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appeared to fend off a strong chal-lenge from the country’s opposition leader in parliamentary elections 
Tuesday, emerging from an acrimo-
nious campaign in a better position to form Israel’s next government.
But with the sides nearly evenly 
divided, a victory by Netanyahu’s Likud Party still was not guaranteed. His chief rival, Isaac Herzog of the Zionist Union, said he would make “every effort” to form a government, 
and an upstart centrist party led by a 
former Netanyahu ally-turned-rival was set to be the kingmaker. 
Both Netanyahu and Herzog will 
now compete for a chance to form a coalition that commands a majority in the 120-seat parliament, a daunt-ing task in Israel’s fractured politi-cal landscape. Netanyahu appeared 
to have a better chance of cobbling 
together a government with right-wing and religious parties that he calls his “natural allies.” Herzog would have to appeal to more ideo-logically diverse parties.Netanyahu 
wins tight electionSOPHIA KARNEGIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local sixth graders returned 
to the woods last week to sow the 
seeds of their middle-school cur-riculum.
Under the direction of UF scien-
tists and professors, the Kids in the Woods program was brought back to Westwood Middle School to teach science outside the classroom over two weeks, ending today.
Michael Andreu, a UF associate 
professor of forest resources and conservation, was among those coordinating the program to foster 
the relationship between young 
students and the environment.
“We’re really using the outdoor 
setting as our medium to learn about science,” Andreu said. “(The students) are still learning their curriculum. They’re learning what they would normally learn in a sci-ence class.”
The program originally 
launched with the collaboration of three Westwood teachers and about 300 students.
Andreu was able to supply 
necessary equipment, such as tree diameter measuring tapes and 80 pairs of rubber boots, after receiv-ing a grant from the U.S. Forest Service.
“While the initial grant period 
covered a two-year time period, our goal is that they will continue in Westwood Middle School,” An-dreu said.
He said he hopes to eventu-
ally expand the program to other schools. He will be conducting a workshop this summer to educate teachers on the importance of pro-grams similar to Kids in the Woods.
“Student behavior has im-
proved, and enthusiasm for learn-ing has improved after getting in-
volved in the program,” Andreu 
said.
Courtney Miles, a 20-year-old 
UF education sophomore, said she has witnessed the benefits of hands-on assignments during her time as a volunteer for Joseph Williams Elementary School in Gainesville.
“I think they’re really beneficial, 
especially for some of the students that might learn a little bit differ-ently,” Miles said. “Some students might have trouble absorbing the material by simply completing a worksheet. Some may need to see it in front of them and visualize what they’re learning.”WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Andreu, a UF associate professor of forest resources and conservation, shows a Westwood 
Middle School student how to identify a tree based on its leaf. Andreu works with the Kids in the Woods program, which was funded by a grant from the U.S. Forest Service.
LOCALWestwood sixth graders embrace hands-on, outdoor curriculum
LOCAL
JENNIFER JENKINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville Roller Rebels 
are preparing to crush the North 
River Roller Renegades in the first match of the roller derby season this weekend.
The Gainesville Roller Rebels are Gainesville’s only roller der-by league. 
The team will take on the 
North River Roller Renegades at 5 p.m. Saturday at the Alachua County Fairgrounds.
Adrienne Fagan, the 
Gainesville Roller Rebels vice president, who competes under the name Rage-rienne, said the team has a lot of new talent this year.
“We are really looking for-
ward to getting to see them de-velop and become leaders on the team,” said Fagan, a 27-year-old 
UF urban science and regional 
planning graduate student.
The Gainesville Roller Reb-
els is a nonprofit organization that earns its funds from derby matches, called bouts, and fun-draising efforts. The team also strives to be proactive in the com-munity.
Fagan said the Roller Rebels 
support and fund philanthropies that empower young women, in-cluding some that focus on help-ing victims of domestic violence. 
Charities they sponsor include 
Gainesville Girls Rock Camp, Girls Place and Peaceful Paths.
Verity Salmon, who goes by 
AlakaSlam in the rink, will be competing Saturday.
The UF biology Ph.D. candi-
date said she’s typically busy and being a student can sometimes be isolating.  
“The derby team is a nice 
group of proactive women,” Ver-ity, 27, said. “Even with all of the 
craziness going on in their lives, 
they make time for roller derby.”
Fagan said roller derby is one 
of the most fun activities she has ever participated in, and it offers many opportunities for self-de-velopment.
“We are in charge of all of our 
marketing, advertising, finances, 
fundraising and everything that 
comes with running a business,” Fagan said, “so you can really end up learning a lot about your-self.”The Rebels roll into their new season
Alligator File Photo
Lady Rider from the Blue Ridge Rollergirls and LeBrawn Maimes 
from the Gainesville Roller Rebels, both jammers, race across the rink. Identified by stars on their helmets, jammers are the only play -
ers who can score points for the team.
 IT WILL DRAW ATTENTION TO VOTING RIGHTS FOR CONVICTED FELONS WHO COMPLETED SENTENCES.
VERONICA GARCIA
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s been 50 years since the civil rights march from Selma  
to Montgomery, and the Gator Law American Civil Liberties 
Union is holding its own to continue the rally for peace.
The organization is holding a civil rights march to celebrate 
the famous protest’s 50th anniversary from the UF Levin Col-lege of Law to the Plaza of the Americas at 11 a.m. Saturday, ending with a peace rally.
The historic, 50-mile-long march in 1965 led to the Voting 
Rights Act of 1965.
Ben Silva, Gator Law ACLU president and a second-year 
law student, said this weekend’s march will also be a rally for the rights of former convicted felons.
Almost 2 million people in Florida have permanently lost 
their rights to vote, hold public office or serve on a jury because they were convicted of a felony, Silva, 34, wrote in an email.
“Florida is one of only three states that imposes lifetime civil 
rights bans on ex-offenders while most states have automatic restoration of civil rights after release,” Silva said.
Brian Lawrence, the president of the Black Law Students As-
sociation and a second-year law student, said the event’s goals coincide with the vision of equality and fairness of the Selma march.
“UF BLSA has historically been very supportive of the resto-
ration of civil rights for non-violent convicted felons, and this is a great way to reaffirm that commitment,” the 24-year-old said.
The ACLU of Florida and Floridians for a Fair Democracy 
will be petitioning to place a constitutional amendment on the 2016 ballot for automatic restoration of civil rights for ex-of-fenders — except those convicted for murder or sex offenses — upon completion of the conditions of their release.
“Selma is not just a moment to be remembered,” Silva said, 
“but an ongoing struggle for equality for everyone.”March to remember 
Selma, rally for rightsReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgToday’s question: Do you think UF has enough resourc-
es to ensure campus diversity?
47 TOTAL VOTES28% YES
72% NOTuesday’s question: Would you try pow -
dered alcohol?
Obama right to call 
out Iran deal critics
The Mexican standoff between Iran, the U.S. and Isra-el over the nuclear talks due to end this month have already caused a bunch of ruckus in their respective 
countries. The talks had wide-reaching effects, including Tuesday’s elections in Israel and the legacies of our sitting president and the legislators who’ve made it their life’s work to oppose him. The deal comes at a time when the Middle East is once again the center of world chaos and general up-heaval.
In an interview released Monday, President Barack Obama 
said “ISIL is direct outgrowth of Al-Qaida in Iraq, which grew out of our invasion, which is an example of unintended consequences, which is why we should generally aim before we shoot.” Although he was talking about the anti-ISIS coali-tion’s strategy, this works just as well as a quip against his colleagues in Congress who oppose the deal.
His statement is significant. He correctly affirms American 
primacy and influence over world affairs without conforming to the rigid dogma of American Exceptionalism, which is an ardent denial that the U.S. has any capability to make mis-takes. This outlook affirms our power and status but retains a responsibility to use it wisely.  
By acknowledging the 2003 invasion of Iraq was a catas-
trophe responsible for, among many things, the rise of the most terrifying gang of religious nutcases since the Crusades, Obama made a strong point against the no-deal-with-Iran crowd.
The deal, by the way, would allow Iran to develop nuclear 
energy capabilities under strict observation by the interna-tional community, which is a textbook case of — as they call it on the first day of International Relations class — diplo-macy. It’s not like the P5+1 is handing a sack of uranium over to the Ayatollah along with directions to Tel Aviv. The deal just makes the possibility of war with Iran a last resort, as op-posed to Plan A.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin “Bibi” Netanyahu ex-
pressed his disdain for a diplomatic solution in a campaign speech that happened to take place in the chambers of the U.S. Congress. He argued that Iran’s government is hateful and totalitarian, subjecting its citizens to numerous horrific abuses, often on the basis of anti-Semitism. He’s not wrong — he’s just being arrogant. Iran is pretty much exactly as he de-scribed, but without a deal the only deterrent is war. He gave similar advice in 2002, urging intervention in a then-thought-to-be-harboring-WMDs Iraq. Look how well that turned out for everyone.
We know aggression and antagonism on the front end def-
initely won’t work. We can hope a deal does and fall back on more forceful tactics if it fails. But those who would make the classic blunder of getting involved in a land war in Asia over the deal are either woefully shortsighted or giddy for another decade of suffering, death and destabilization.
Kylie Jenner and Tyga: bad for girls
When it comes to relationships, I usually refrain from passing judgment of any kind. My mind-set is: Why judge someone if they are genuinely 
happy? It’s not up to me to decide if a relationship is right or wrong with regard to age, race or gender. I figure, if two people are happy, let them be happy. But my usually solid stance quivered when a relationship between two celebrities was confirmed last week.
If you are a part of the Kardashian fandom, you may 
have heard the news that one of the sisters, Kylie Jenner, is openly dating rapper Tyga. Dating rumors have been circulating social media about the couple for months, and both parties have denied them for some time. 
But on Friday, Tyga confirmed via Instagram his rela-
tionship with Kylie. Depending on how you feel about the relationship, his post could be considered a sweet gesture. He posted a picture of Kylie and wrote in the caption that the youngest Kardashian sister has now stolen his heart.
I know — who cares, right? This is just more gossip to 
add to the Kardashian reign. But the relationship between the two has caused a storm in the media because of the vast age difference between them. 
Kylie Jenner is 17 years old, Tyga is 25. That little detail 
is sort of a big deal, due to the fact that Kylie is still, you know, a child. I would usually apply my favorite quote, “to each his own,” in a similar situation and abide by my personal no-judgment rule, but this case is different.  
This relationship is borderline illegal, and I am positive 
that if two “non-famous” people would confess to such a relationship, the outcome would be drastically different. Someone would most likely be going to jail or be facing concerned and angry parents. 
Of course, that is not the case for Kylie and Tyga be-
cause they’re famous — too famous to get into any real trouble, I might add. And Kylie’s mother, Kris Jenner, is probably not going to interfere because she pushes her kids to be in the spotlight as much as possible.It’s not OK for two people to 
get away with potentially break-ing the law and not abiding by rules because of their positions in society. 
Besides that, it’s just plain wrong. Kylie is not even of 
age yet, and Tyga is 25 with a child of his own. That piece of information makes some people subconsciously con-sider Kylie Jenner as a mother figure for his son. 
That’s just scary. When I first heard the Kylie-and-Tyga 
dating rumors, I did not care as much. But then I gave more thought on Kylie’s fame and the influence she has on young girls today.
The younger generation is already so ahead of its time 
in this day in age. A 14-year-old girl today is not what a 14-year-old girl used to be back when I was that age, only six years ago. Kylie represents that generation mov-ing too fast. Girls may constantly want to look older and do things that make them feel older, but now it’s on a new level. More girls are dressing provocatively, getting into trouble on social media and trying to grow up too fast. 
Kylie’s relationship with Tyga could influence young 
girls to disobey laws and question right and wrong val-ues. The excuse would be, “Well Kylie Jenner does it, so it’s OK.” Kylie and Tyga needed to factor in her fan base and how this relationship would affect her personal im-age. 
Kylie is already encouraging the younger female gen-
eration to grow up too quickly based on her appearance, and her illicit relationship with Tyga adds pressure for younger girls to obtain a similar lifestyle. 
Hopefully younger girls who idolize the reality star 
have a more sensible influence in their lives than Kylie Jenner, because at this rate, young girls have lined up to follow her footsteps.
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORGrace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Created Equal failed to change minds
Created Equal may “believe what they believe,” but their 
display was simply inaccurate, inﬂ  ammatory rhetoric. Their 
only goal was publicity and they achieved it. One could evoke similar revulsion among viewers by photographing any surgi-cally removed human organ and displaying it, billboard-sized, on a truck. It is immaterial that such beneﬁ  cial surgeries remove cancerous organs to prolong human life. I doubt their display 
changed any “thinking” minds. More likely, last week’s stunt 
merely hardened previously held positions, both pro- and anti-abortion rights, among our campus community and effectively stiﬂ  ed any reasonable debate on campus regarding abortion and the anti-abortion rights movement.
David Prevatt 
UF assistant professor of civil and coastal engineeringLetters to the Editor
Last month, Florida’s Repub-lican U.S. senator and UF  alumnus Marco Rubio pro-
posed a bipartisan-supported bill detailing a plan to combat sexual 
assault on college campuses. A let-
ter he wrote was featured in the Al-ligator, and he has been applauded by people on both sides of the aisle for his seemingly progressive piece of legislation. I even found myself commending Rubio until I real-ized he and the team of senators — a total of ﬁ  ve democrats and ﬁ  ve republicans — made the 
same mistake most people are making when it 
comes to combating sexual assault: They’re fo-cused on the aftermath of rape instead of focus-ing on disintegrating rape culture.
Rubio began his letter by saying every Amer-
ican needs to feel safe on a college campus so students can get the higher education they need, and, for that reason, sexual assault is a serious concern. He went on to declare the proposed 
legislation’s principle goals: “empowering vic-
tims with the tools they need to achieve justice and begin healing, increasing transparency from colleges and universities, and strengthening ac-countability for institutions that fail to do their part to provide a safe learning environment.”
His legislation, at ﬁ  rst glance, seems ideal, as 
it forces universities to be more open about the prevalence of rape while affording victims more 
tools to pursue justice. After thinking about it 
and being left with a “Where’s the rest?” feeling, however, I realized the legislation is lacking. It ignores the fact that the origin of rape can be ad-dressed, and it instead focuses on strategies to better cope with sexual assault.
Demonstrating his focus on the aftermath of 
rape, Rubio wrote, “Too many lives are ruined by a failure to deal with these crimes efﬁ  ciently, 
fairly and consistently.” That’s true. Rape vic-
tims are often confronted with even more prob-lems if they pursue charges, but that shouldn’t be the only focus of legislation. Lives are ruined by rape — not just the criminal proceedings that sometimes follow. We can’t concede to the idea that rape will exist at these alarming rates and solely focus on how to deal with it. In fact, do-ing so perpetuates rape culture and the idea that 
rape is inevitable.
Through media, language and — in this case 
— legislation, rape in our society is seen as an expected crime. Society tells people 
how to dress, when to go outside and how to live their lives so they don’t get raped. For example, Re-publican District 23 Rep. Dennis 
K. Baxley cited campus rape as a 
reason to support a bill to legalize ﬁ  rearms on college campuses. He, too, is normalizing rape and focus-ing on methods to survive threats instead of attempting to dimin-ish those threats in the ﬁ  rst place. 
That’s a spineless approach. We can’t shy away from addressing why rape happens. All that 
does is produce methods of coping with it in-
stead of methods of combating it.
Given that rape is a sensitive subject, it’s often 
intimidating to try to address something that is deeply believed in our culture to be inevitable. Rubio demonstrated just how intimidating com-bating rape culture is when he said, “Many of the answers must be found in changes to culture rather than in legislation.” However, he is mis-
taken in implying that politicians and legislation 
can only inﬂ  uence post-rape proceedings and nothing else. That’s false. Legislation can be used to contest rape culture, and here’s how:
First, we need to introduce and entrench the 
concept of consensual sex in middle and high school curriculums. We need adolescents who can refuse peer pressure, clarify mixed signals and understand that drugs and alcohol impair 
consent. It’s much more difﬁ  cult to change atti-
tudes and teach these concepts at older ages, so it needs to start early. 
In addition, we need comprehensive, se-
mesterly online workshops that teach college students bystander intervention skills. We also need to place holds on registration for students who don’t participate. All of this can be done through legislation.
Almost one in ﬁ  ve undergraduate women 
are victims of sexual assault  or attempted as-sault during their college years. Do we want to take measures to decrease that statistic, or do we want to accept it and focus wholly on how courts and universities proceed with cases? The latter is like providing Band-Aids instead of preventing cuts. It’s a cowardly cop-out, and our legislators are relying on it. We deserve more, so let’s de-
mand it.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry fresh-
man. His column appears on Wednesdays.
As a sophomore in high 
school, I educated myself on issues of 
animal cruelty and meat pro-duction in the U.S. After thor-
ough research, I made the de-
cision to change my lifestyle. I adopted a vegetarian diet. I maintained it for the last ﬁ  ve years, and fully transitioned to a vegan diet about six months ago. I don’t walk around with a soapbox in hand, ready and willing to talk about my views on animal maltreatment or government-regulated factory farming. I often refrain from even 
using words like “vegetarian” or “vegan” 
because they elicit bafﬂ  ed and confused re-sponses that I don’t often have the time or energy to deal with. Clearly, I have strong opinions that motivated me to make a life-style change, but I don’t often engage oth-ers in conversation about animal rights un-less I’m asked a direct question.
My approach to animal advocacy is 
fairly contradictory to my usual combative approach to issues of morality and justice. Of course, I do feel that ethical treatment of animals is a serious problem that needs to be addressed, but discrimination and the inhuman treatment of our citizens must be addressed ﬁ  rst. That being said, my dis-comfort in openly discussing issues of ani-mal rights lies in the fear of being wrong-
fully aligned. When many people hear 
“vegan,” there’s a predominant stereotype of angry radicalism, aggressive ideology and, of course, PETA.
PETA, or People for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals, is the predominant group making its voice heard for the cause of animal rights. Or so we are led to be-lieve. PETA pushes an agenda of single-
issue politics, often exploiting other groups 
in order to express its viewpoint. Any veg-an or vegetarian who is passionate about animal rights should look to PETA’s ob-jectiﬁ  cation of women and use of radical, triggering demonstrations as more than enough reason to discredit the organiza-tion entirely.
PETA continually places the impor-
tance of animal rights over all else, exploit-ing humans in the process. “Sex sells” is the domineering marketing tool for the “I’d Rather Go Naked Than Wear Fur” campaign, which capitalizes on sexualized women. PETA has used im-ages of naked, bound, beaten, 
bloodied and dead women to 
condemn animal abuse. It is hypocritical 
and misogynistic to be horriﬁ  ed by slaugh-terhouses, yet accepting of women’s bod-ies used as props to promote a cause. In its attempt to humanize animals and garner sympathy, PETA dehumanizes women, perpetuates sexism and cheapens its cause.
PETA has infamously demonstrated 
while dressed as members of the Ku Klux Klan, handed bloodied “Unhappy Meals” to children outside of McDonald’s restau-rants and used Nazi imagery to compare the plight of animals to that of victims of genocide. These tactics are meant to be shocking and to make the viewer uncom-fortable — which can be an effective tactic, but not at the expense of children, women 
and victimized groups. 
PETA often seems concerned with 
headlines and sensationalized press more 
so than with helping animals. Document-ed statistics of animals coming into PETA shelters prove the organization euthanizes about 85 percent of its animals on average.
This is the group that presents itself 
as the loudest and most organized voice 
for the cause of veganism. People imme-
diately associate vegans with the organi-zation, which I’ve heard not-so-jokingly referred to as an outright hate group. It’s unsurprising that vegans are clumped to-gether as angry, single-issue protestors with misguided priorities — because that’s exactly the image our “representatives” are crafting for us. I generally ﬁ  nd that people 
supporting compassionate causes use com-
passionate tactics to earn support. PETA, being the antithesis of a compassionate cause, must, therefore, use the most un-compassionate tactics. 
With enough vegans and vegetarians 
speaking out against PETA, we can create space for worthwhile, productive animal rights groups to send a better message. 
Don’t let PETA’s cartoon stickers fool you.
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Rubio rape bill focus misplaced PETA: not a voice for vegansColumn Column
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgAmy Coker
opinions@alligator.orgEMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
Black students are not accepted 
into UF based on affirmative action.
After former Gov. Jeb Bush erad-
icated the legislation in 1999, black 
student enrollment at UF steadily 
rose until 2009. In 2010, UF added 
the option of “two or more” for stu-dents to self-report background. Af-ter this change, the percent of black students enrolled began to decrease in 2010 until African-Americans went from about 9 percent of the Student Body to about 7 percent of the Student Body in 2013.
Even if the new “two or more” 
category was completely made up of previously identified black stu-dents, there was still a decrease in the black enrollment numbers.
“Nationally, black enrollment 
across the university spectrum is 
down,” said UF spokeswoman Ja-
nine Sikes. 
She said the administration be-
lieves the specific-to-Florida reasons that black enrollment is down center around the lack of financial aid.
Black Student Union President 
Shrisa Reid-Renaud said students gravitate toward colleges that give 
more scholarships, which tend to 
be historically black universities. A lack of money also impacts pro-grams that expose underprivileged kids to higher education.
“Not knowing that UF is even a 
possibility prevents students from applying,” the 22-year-old telecom-munication senior said.
This is a problem that cycles 
through communities with a lot of first-generation college students.  
They have little guidance with 
higher education, wrote Vee Smith, the director of the Institute of Black Culture, in an email. “College still feels unattainable to our commu-nity.” 
Goeto Dantes, a 22-year-old ap-
plied physiology and kinesiology senior, has worked to support him-self through college. As a pre-med student, he worked 40 hours a week as a nurse at UF Health Shands Hospital while applying to medical school.
“I had to work for every single 
thing I got,” he said, “and my GPA 
stands the test of time not only by 
me working academically but phys-ically as well.”
Dantes will be attending the 
UF College of Medicine in the Fall. Some people may joke that he and other black students are only accept-ed in universities because of affir-mative action. It starts off as a joke, 
but end ups being a subtle form of 
racism.
“It diminishes the merits that 
you work so hard for,” he said.
Racism at the university hasn’t 
always been so covert. In the past few years, fraternity brothers have worn blackface to parties and shout-ed racial slurs at women. At a uni-
versity with a long history of a white 
majority, racist stories are not rare. 
But in the organizations that 
spring up for minority student pop-ulations, the community is strong and growing. Reid-Renaud said having something like BSU at such a large university helped her become more comfortable by meeting stu-dents who are also experiencing the new environment of UF.
“I have been able to reach out to 
other black students and help them have a good college experience as well through our community,” she said. 
On top of that, the Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs office creates 
safe spaces and provides resources 
for students on campus.
“At the Institute of Black Cul-
ture (IBC), we try to be integral in the lives of the Black (and) African-American community from the time they are accepted to the university up to the point that they leave,” Smith said.
These resources are well-used 
and help foster growth in the com-munity within UF and would ben-efit from additional funding and staff. More resources could help re-cruit and retain students by allocat-ing them to fill black students’ needs at UF.
“The goal is to create life chang-
ing, joyous experiences to our Gators,” Smith said, “so they go back to their homes and communi-ties and encourage others to apply.”Drawing conclusions from an increase or decrease of 
student enrollment can be difficult because numbers don’t tell the whole story. 
From 1997 through 2009, the options for self-re-
porting race included only singular distinctions, like white or black/African-American. In 2010, the option to self-report having two or more racial backgrounds was added, and this is how UF still records data today.
UF throws the distinction of Hispanic/Latino into the 
category of backgrounds even though it is an eth-nicity and the rest of the options are race. Race is a biological and genetic distinction, and ethnicity is the culture a person comes from.While the percentages in racial breakdowns of students has fluctuated within the last ten years, 
the number of students enrolled on UF’s physical 
campus has hovered around 45,000 to 46,000 
because UF faced size limitations, wrote UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando in an email.
These size limitations made the available ac-
ceptance to UF’s physical campus harder to ob-
tain — the number of applicants has steadily in-
creased while the number of spots has remained 
the same. The competition to get into UF has in-
creased, giving students with the best scores the 
best opportunity to be accepted.
 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014THE CHANGING FACE OF UF
20%
19%18%17%16%15%14%13%12%11%10%
9%8%7%6%5%4%3%2%1%REPORTING CHANGE
Method of reporting 
race on UF applications changesCensus Data: Black and African-Americans      comprise 14.6% of FL ’s population. Hispanic and Latinos comprise 16.8%The Machen Florida Opportunity Schol-ars Program beginsMethod of reporting race on UF applications changes
Census Data: Black and African-Americans are 
at 16% of FL pop., Hispanic and Latinos at 22.5%Data from Census Bureau shows black and African-American populations for FL at 16.7%, Hispanic and Latinos at 23.6%Gov. Rick Scott signs a tuition equity bill into law that was touted as a state-level Dream Act, which allowed undocumented students to be eligible for in-state tuition so long as they had been attending Florida schools for three years.CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
Joselin Padron-Rasines went from 
a mostly Hispanic high school to a 
mostly white university. Next year, she will be UF’s first Latina Student Body president.
The results of the election reflect 
a larger trend in student population: The number of Hispanic and Latino students is on the rise.
Between 1997 and 2009, the num-
ber of Hispanic and Latino students attending UF as undergraduates jumped from 10 percent of the total undergraduate population to 16 per-cent. Race identification options on applications changed in 2010. Still, from that year to 2013, Hispanic and 
Latino student population increased 
from 16 percent of the Student Body to 19 percent.
The rising numbers of Hispanic 
and Latino people living in the state could contribute a lot to the rise in UF’s population, said Janine Sikes, UF spokeswoman.
“I think that the face, with the 
new president of UF and with a new Student Body president, is shifting at UF, and that’s really exciting,” said Olivia Garcia, director of the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures.
The number of Hispanic and La-
tino students would also have been affected by a change in the way race is reported on applications. In 2010, 
“two or more races” was added as 
an option for students to choose. Al-
though students have the option to 
select both “Hispanic and Latino” 
and then a race, the system will only record them as “Hispanic and La-tino,” according to a letter from the Florida Board of Governors.
This is problematic, said Garcia, 
since Hispanic and Latino are both ethnicities, not races.
“I don’t know if all of our Hispan-
ic students know to choose Hispanic 
— they might be choosing white,” 
she said. “It might be that some of 
our Afro-Latino students, because 
they racialized as black, are choosing African-American or black.”
While UF is embracing its future 
Latina Student Body president, the university has not always had such open arms.
When Gil Sanchez ran for Student 
Body president in 2001, someone 
spray-painted “No spicks for presi-
dent!” on La Casita, the home of the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, according to Alligator archives.
“I’m not going to say that that 
wasn’t a worry, to see how campus would react,” said Padron-Rasines. “But it’s positive when you can see that it is possible for someone who 
is a minority to win Student Body 
president.”
Racism is unfortunately some-thing Hispanic and Latino people still experience today.
When Valeria Hernandez was 
in third or fourth grade, a classmate boasted about what a nice person she was by letting Hernandez sit next to her, since Hernandez was naturally tanned. This, along with other inci-dents of bullying over her Hispanic 
ethnicity, sent Hernandez on a path 
to erase her Venezuelan roots.
Hernandez, a 19-year-old UF psy-
chology freshman, stopped speaking Spanish in public and began working on transforming her Venezuelan ac-cent into one from the mid-Atlantic.
Since coming to UF, however, 
Hernandez has chosen to embrace 
her heritage. Hernandez said her in-
volvement in the Hispanic Student Association gave her a positive cam-pus experience.
“When I was kind of like alone, 
they reached out,” she said. “I feel like my college experience wouldn’t be as enhanced, or I wouldn’t have as much opportunities without HSA. They’re like my family. I love them so much.”
Padron-Rasines also attributed 
her experiences to her involvement in multicultural groups. She felt wel-come at HSA and La Casita.
While they are great resources for 
students, Padron-Rasines said, UF could make campus even more open to Hispanic students by increasing the scope of those organizations.
“I feel like sometimes those are 
really overwhelmed resources,” she said. “There’s not enough outreach and a lot of these departments are re-ally small.”
“When we have a diversified stu-
dent body population — it amplifies the learning experience and the aca-demic excellence of the university. As students, we all benefit from be-
ing surrounded by people with dif-
ferent races, ethnicities, religions, po-litical stances and beliefs that we can learn from.”Graph Key
Hispanic / Latino
African American / BlackTwo or more racesHispanic/Latino at UF: increased population, growth in representation Black at UF: smaller in number, bigger in community support
Amount of African-Amer-
ican and black students 
who applied to UF: 
2,862
Amount of African-
American and black 
students who were 
accepted into UF: 
862
Data is from 2013 for under -
graduate studentsAmount of Hispanic and 
Latino students who 
applied to UF: 
6,160
Amount of Hispanic and 
Latino students who were 
accepted into UF: 
2,441
Data is from 2013 for under -
graduate studentsPercentage of Enrolled Undergrads by Reported Race• Drawing conclusions from an increase or decrease of student enrollment can be difficult because numbers don’t tell the whole story. 
• From 1997 through 2009, the options for self-reporting race included only singular distinctions, like white or black/African-American. In 2010, the option to self-report having two or more racial backgrounds was added, and this is how UF still records data today.
• UF throws the distinction of Hispanic/Latino into the category of backgrounds even though it is an ethnicity and the rest of the options are race. Race is a biological and genetic distinction, and ethnic -
ity is the culture a person comes from.• While the percentages in racial breakdowns of students has fluctuated within the last ten years, the number of students enrolled on UF’s physical campus has hovered around 45,000 to 46,000 because UF faced size limitations, wrote UF spokesman Steve Orlando in an email. These size limitations made the available acceptance to UF’s physical campus harder to obtain — the number of applicants has steadily increased while the num-ber of spots has remained the same. The competi -
tion to get into UF has increased, giving students with the best scores the best opportunity to be ac-cepted.• The socioeconomic status of a student is a direct player in how well a student scores on exams and in school. Students from a lower socio-economic background have less access to high-quality curriculums, starting in the K-12 system, said Dorene Ross, a professor emeritus from the UF College of Education. In addition to lack of rigor -
ous curriculum, many of these students do not have parents who know how to navigate the school system. “One of the things that encour-ages children who have to overcome obstacles to their academic potential is having an adult who is a cheerleader saying, ‘You can do it! You can do it!’” she said.• As these children progress through the school sys-tem and approach college, money becomes the direct barrier to access. “Many of these students were working to provide for their families so to them, their education is taking away from their families’ resources,” she said.
• The three years worth of data after the report-ing changes is not enough to indicate a longterm trend.ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
TWO ROOMS WITH BATH AND WALK-IN CLOSET FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. UNIT HAS FURNISHED KITCHEN AND A WASHER/DRYER.$400.00 PER MONTH RENT INCLUDES HIGH SPEED INTERNET AND USE OF COMMON AREA IN THE UNIT. REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT $400.00.Please contact Ram at 352-514-7250.    3-19-15-3-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   3-20-15-17-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, 
& 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1600 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from 
campus. Nice house. Hardwood floors, cen-
tral heat/air, W/D provided. 1105 NW 10th 
Ave. $1550/mo, call/text 352-339-2342. pic-
tures at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-24-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT
(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close 
to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $375/mo + utils & deposit. Free inter-net. Furnished living room. Available now. 
Share with male student. Call 904-608-7609    
3-25-15-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12Sell your running or not running carUp to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
12, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
PT Job with UIFT Web Service. Quick learner
Web Design experience (HTML, CSS)15-20 hrs/week, $15/hr.Assisting Web Developers migrate content into new system.email resume to Kim Standifer, standik@ufl.edu   3-18-7-14DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
The Towering Harvard HandSign Language Assistant
352-375-8606                         3-23-5-15
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s 
lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORGThe UF women’s tennis 
team is still undefeated in SEC play after a tough weekend. Read the story 
on page 16. UF gymnasts honored by SEC
Kytra Hunter was named SEC Gymnast of the Week while Bridget Sloan claimed SEC Specialist of the Week. 
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
As the game bled into the four-
hour mark and the crowd began to 
thin, JJ Schwarz eyed down a fast-
ball.“He put it right where I wanted 
it,” Schwarz said of FSU pitcher Alex Deise.
With runners at the corners, 
Schwarz crushed a home run deep to left field to all but seal Florida’s victory in the seventh inning.
Ultimately, the No. 2 Gators (19-
3) outlasted the No. 13 Seminoles 
(17-5) 14-8 Tuesday night, extend-
ing their win streak against their in-state rival to five games.The night was full of highs and 
lows for both sides— FSU tallied five errors in the first five innings 
yet managed to remain close, and 
UF received inconsistent play from its bullpen but outhit its opponent 
in later innings.
“I think the hardest thing in 
baseball is to have all three aspects of your team really working,” Har-
rison Bader said. “Our offense was really good, our defense was really 
good, and our pitching slipped a 
little bit tonight. But those guys are working hard and I know it was just 
an off night.”
Each UF starter tallied at least 
one hit and reached base at least twice, and the team hit .410 as a 
whole.
Schwarz had three RBIs, two hits 
and homered for the fifth time this season, and Bader had 3 RBIs of his own.
“It always seems like every 
time something big happens offen-sively, it seems like Bader’s right 
there in the middle of it,” coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan said. “I thought offensively, we were really good 
tonight.” 
Both teams began the game fir-
ing, as a combined seven runs were scored in the first inning. Starter Eric 
Hanhold gave up two runs on three hits before striking out the last two 
batters he faced to retire the side.
After Richie Martin was hit by a pitch, Bader tripled to deep center 
to earn UF its first runs of the game.
Josh Tobias and Mike Rivera fol-
lowed with two RBI singles each, and freshman Jeremy Vasquez doubled down the right-field line, 
scoring two and taking a 5-2 lead 
over FSU.
Bader grounded out in the sec-
ond but not before sending home Dalton Guthrie, extending the Gators’ lead to four.
FSU put up three more runs in 
the third to come within one, but with two outs in the fourth, Martin 
stole home to increase UF’s lead to 
7-5.
After the Seminoles scored 
two runs in the fifth, Florida again answered on a Ryan Larson RBI single, an FSU fielding error and a 
sacrifice fly from Bader that almost 
left the park.
The Gators increased their lead 
to four in the sixth inning after Lar-son singled and FSU’s center fielder bobbled the ball, allowing Mike Ri-
vera to cross home.
 UF’s pitchers were inconsistent, 
as Hanhold allowed four hits and five runs in 2.1 innings, and deliv-
ered three strikeouts. UF’s six other pitchers combined for nine strike-
outs and allowed three runs.
Florida will continue play on 
the road with a three-game series against Ole Miss beginning on Fri-
day.Florida outlasts Florida State behind offensive outburst
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Harrison Bader rounds first base after hitting an RBI triple in the first inning of Florida’s 14-8 win 
against Florida State on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium. 
NCAA
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
In 2015, anything and everything can be 
crowdfunded — from mission trips, to pet vet-
erinary bills to potato salad. 
So Tony Klausing decided he’d start his own 
crowdfunding website called Fanpay.org with 
three other co-founders to try to raise money to 
compensate NCAA student athletes. Now, he 
has a message for NCAA president Mark Em-mert.
“I would tell Mr. Emmert that time and time 
again the NCAA emphasizes that it is primarily an organization that is dedicated to the educa-tion of its student athletes, and I would say if that truly is the primary priority of the NCAA, then you should embrace Fanpay,” Klausing 
said.
“Because our mission is to help college ath-
letes graduate, to improve graduation rates and 
to give them a down payment on life for when they finish their degree.”
Fanpay hopes to give that “down payment” 
by setting up a way for fans to donate money to any college student, but that is merely an il-lusion. 
Opening the software platform to all stu-
dents made sense to Klausing. It didn’t cost any extra to do so, and added “40 times” the amount of potential customers. But there is no doubt the direction that donation money is real-ly intended to flow is towards student athletes.
“We’re a crowdfunding website and crowds 
don’t show up to watch kids do their chemistry 
homework,” Klausing said. “They show up to 
watch kids play football.”
In December, Fanpay began accepting mon-
ey to be held in escrow accounts until the recipi-
ent graduates. If the student declines the gift, 
the money will be refunded to the donors.
As of press time, the website has raised 
$1,327.03. 
Former UCF tight end Justin Tukes and for-
mer Texas Tech wide receiver Bradley Marquez have the most money pledged to them at $150 each. 
The most high-profile athletes with money 
pledged to them on the site are Alabama offen-sive lineman Arie Kouandjio ($100) and Ohio Fanpay hopes to fund athletes
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
For the second-straight Tuesday, 
Florida played host to a Top-25 team. 
And for the second-straight time, the Gators lost to that team by one goal.
No. 7 Florida (6-4) fell to No. 14 
Stony Brook (6-0) 12-11 on Tuesday night to give the Gators their third straight loss for just the second time in program history. The first time was in 2010, the team’s inaugural year.
Last Tuesday, Florida lost to No. 
5 Syracuse in overtime. On Saturday, the Gators were beaten on the road 
by No. 1 Maryland. Tuesday was a 
game Florida felt it could have won, and that it should have won. Turn-overs were what ultimately killed the Gators. You can’t score if you 
keep giving your opponent the ball. 
“You’re gonna have your off 
days, and unfortunately today we 
had a really off day,” senior Shannon Gilroy said. “I think this is a really big wake-up call for us. I think we need to learn a lot from this game…the next few games coming up are huge for us. I mean it’s like end-all, 
be-all right now.”
Gilroy finished with a team-high 
six points, scoring two goals and re-
cording career-high four assists. Un-fortunately for Florida, Gilroy was Losses mounting as 
Gators fall to Stony Brook
SEE LAX, PAGE 15
SEE NCAA, PAGE 15
Quotable
“Everbody get home safely.That was a long night” 
Harrison Bader  
UF outfielder
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @Pinakk12
Crouched behind home plate, Aubree Munro has seen the 
ups of Florida’s pitchers. Now she’s seen the downs.
Munro, who saw action at catcher in every game against 
LSU this weekend, witnessed a Tigers offense come into 
Gainesville and rough up Florida’s pitchers to help LSU take two of three games from the Gators – UF’s first two losses of the season.
Munro knows the losses sting. 
“It’s a little bit tough to forget a weekend like that when 
we’re the kind of team that we are at the caliber that we play 
at,” she said. “It’s not something that we just kind of forget about.”
Prior to Fridays’ series-opening game against LSU, Florida pitchers had allowed only 28 runs (18 earned) through their first 27 games.
In three games against the Tigers, the staff gave up 27 runs 
(19 earned). LSU hitters smacked UF pitchers around, hitting .371 over the weekend.
Munro witnessed the go-ahead seventh inning grand slam 
off the bat of LSU’s Kellsi Kloss that handed Florida its first loss of the season Saturday.
Munro saw Bianka Bell crush a three-
run home run in the sixth inning of Sun-day’s loss that gave LSU a 6-3 lead and essentially put the game out of reach.
But Munro knows she can’t dwell on instances like those.“You gotta have a short memory in this game or else it’ll 
kind of spiral,” she said.
As Florida continues Southeastern Conference play, its ro-
tation will have to deal with more potent offenses like LSU’s.
Consider this: LSU’s first three hitters in AJ Andrews, Bailey 
Landry and Bianka Bell combined to hit .564 with 14 RBIs and 15 runs scored in the series.
Even UF center fielder Kirsti Merritt could tell from the out-
field that the Gators pitchers didn’t look like themselves last weekend.
“Maybe some calls didn’t go the way that they wanted to,” 
Merritt said. “I could see that and I was like, ‘dang, I thought that was a strike,’ but you can never change that.”
But Merritt knows Florida’s hurlers will bounce back, de-
spite seeing their combined ERA jump from 0.76 before the weekend to 1.39 after the weekend.
“They just need to work on hitting their spots,” she said.
So who is Florida’s ace? Who does coach Tim Walton want 
holding the ball in the circle in the team’s biggest games and 
moments?
Walton isn’t quite sure if he has an ace.“Maybe that hurts us a little bit not to have a true, true num-
ber one pitcher,” he said. “We have three really good pitchers that we like. I don’t know that we have one that’s emerged as the frontrunner to say she’s our go-to.”
Regardless, Walton knows he has a good team on his hands, 
and he’s isn’t going to panic – especially because he loved the fight he saw in his players against the Tigers.
“As great as LSU played this weekend, we’re three pitches 
away from taking two out of three, whether that’s three pitches on our side or three pitches on their side.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aubree Munro catches during Florida’s 7-1 win against Kansas on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Jon Bullard didn’t have to come 
back to UF this year.
Following a junior season 
where Bullard recorded a career-high 52 tackles, 8.5 tackles for loss 
and 2.5 sacks, the defensive line-
man easily could have justified go-ing to the NFL Draft and starting his professional career a year early.
He could have followed in 
the footsteps of classmates Dante Fowler and D.J. Humphries, who both opted to forgo their senior year at Florida.
Both are projected to be taken in 
the first round when the NFL Draft rolls around on April 30.
Instead, Bullard decided to give 
the college game one more go and will be an anchor on Florida’s de-fensive line.
And while he said the decision 
to stay still lingers on his mind, he 
does not have regrets about stay-
ing.
“I would be lying if I said I 
didn’t (have any second thoughts) because I see the combine could do a lot,” Bullard said. “And just with D.J. being so athletic, he rised, so I feel like I would have done good at the combine. Of course, you’re 
going to have second thoughts and 
think. But I made my decision and I’m happy with it and I’m going to make the most of it.”
The 6-foot-3, 277-pound Bul-
lard has the size and athleticism to play anywhere along the defensive line and has a knack for pressuring the quarterback and getting be-hind the line of scrimmage.
The Shelby, North Carolina, na-
tive led all returning UF players last season with 12 quarterback hurries, while finishing second in tackles for losses only to Alex Mc-Calister.
And while Florida has had only 
one practice so far, coach Jim McEl-
wain said he likes what he has seen 
from the defense so far.
“Defensively, they’re obviously 
ahead,” McElwain said. “There’s a lot of carryover from what they were doing. You can see how fast they were playing.”
But the Gators’ defense does 
have its blemishes.
UF is thin at linebacker, with 
Antonio Morrison out for the Spring as he recovers from a knee injury suffered during the Bir-mingham Bowl on Jan. 3.
Florida will also need to figure 
out a way to replace Fowler’s pro-duction.
Over his three seasons at UF, 
Fowler was regularly double-teamed by opponents and still to-taled 140 tackles — including 34 behind the line of scrimmage — while also recording 14.5 sacks and forcing five fumbles in 37 games.
McElwain and the Gators know 
it will be nearly impossible for one player alone to replace Fowler.
But Bullard, the senior anchor along the defensive line, knows he will be looked upon to make the big plays.
And he’s ready to make them.“I’ve got the most experience,” Bullard said. “I’m been playing since my freshman year. I know the feel of the game. I know how things go. I’m an older guy, so I’ve got to take that one.”
14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jon Bullard participates in the Florida football team’s first Spring practice of 2015 on Monday at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
FOOTBALLFlorida looking to Bullard for leadership on defensive line
Munro, Gators not panicking after losing first SEC series
UF Sof tballalso one of four players who com-
mitted two turnovers.
Stony Brook took advantage of 
those turnovers and turned them into quick goals. Freshman Kylie 
Ohlmiller scored a game-high five 
goals on five shots and added one assist. When the Seawolves had possession they controlled the pace of the game — which turned out to be a very slow one. 
From the 10:34 mark of the first 
half down until the final 16 sec-onds, Stony Brook held the ball 
on its half of the field and played 
keep away. Before time expired, Ohlmiller scored to give the Sea-wolves a 5-4 lead going into half-time. Florida never regained the lead and got caught chasing in-stead of leading.
“I think we know exactly what 
we need to work on. A lot of it’s 
heart and a lot of it’s finishing out a 
game and working hard for an en-tire 60 minutes,” senior Nora Barry said. “Now, every game is a must-win. I mean, this was a must-win for us, but now we really just have to focus and make the improve-ments that we have to make.”Florida simply isn’t used to 
losing like this, especially three 
games in a row. The team’s vibe at 
Monday’s practice indicated that the Gators had moved on from its two straight losses and was ready to get back to its winning ways against Stony Brook.
Now, as Florida heads into 
conference play this weekend, the team understands the impor-
tance of winning in the Big East, 
especially with four losses on its resume. The Gators have no more room for error as Florida heads to Nashville, Tennessee to take on Vanderbilt on Sunday before heading farther north to face Tem-ple on March 28. 
With UF on the road for the rest 
of the month, the Gators need to right the ship on the road -- but coach Amanda O’Leary said that the team knows what they need to do to get back to their winning ways. 
“Coming out of that locker 
room tonight, I think you’re gonna have a bunch of sad individuals,” 
O’Leary said, “but after talking to 
them, they know what needs to be done, and hopefully we get back at it (in practice) on Thursday.” WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Shannon Gilroy runs toward the net during Florida’s 12-11 loss to Stony Brook on Tuesday at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium. 
Florida has little room for error after third straight defeat 
LAX , from page 13Klausing: Fanpay will give student athletes money after college
State quarterback Cardale Jones as well as 
running back Ezekiel Elliott (both $50.01).
Klausing says the website isn’t out to reap 
millions of dollars, but just a “little bit more” 
than an athlete has right now. 
To those who say it’s unfair that some 
athletes will receive more money than oth-
ers, Klausing responds by saying it’s too ear-
ly to tell if that will be the case, and he’s wait-ing to “let this innovation take its course.”
Klausing and his co-founders haven’t 
made any money yet personally, but the 
plan is to charge a two-to-six percent fee on 
top of all contributions depending on the method of donation. He said that figure is equal to what popular crowdfunding web-sites like Kickstarter take, and claims most of 
the money taken off the top will go to credit 
card and Automated Clearing House pro-cessing fees. 
When asked how long Fanpay can stay 
afloat without contributions, Klausing de-
clined to answer, only saying “big ideas 
sometimes take longer to realize than we wish.”
Fanpay launched in August, but it did 
not initially begin to accept contributions. By Sept. 30, the NCAA had taken notice, and the University of Florida was the first of 245 schools to send Klausing and his co-found-
ers a formal response.
The first cease-and-desist letter hit Klaus-
ing’s desk like a ton of bricks. He thought 
bringing “collaborative change” that is “based on the value of education” would 
win over schools. He was, in his own words, 
“naive” in not understanding how staunch-ly entrenched the economic interests of the NCAA’s member institutions really are be-
hind the cloak of amateurism. The NCAA is 
the one-eyed monster in Indianapolis, Indi-ana, but it is in essence a front for what is really the combined interest of nearly 1,300 schools.
UF’s letter — written by Jamie McClos-
key, the senior associate athletics director in charge of compliance at UF -- is clear. Cit-ing NCAA bylaw 12.1.2, the letter states “if a student-athlete accepts a promise of pay, 
even if the money is to be received following 
their playing career, they would be deemed immediately ineligible as they would lose their amateur status.”
Florida asked Fanpay to stop raising 
funds on behalf of its student athletes and requested the use of the name, image and likeness of their student athletes on the web-
site be removed.
“I think they’re trying to bully us out of 
existence. I don’t think it’s right,” Klausing 
said. “We are four young, thoughtful, con-siderate co-founders and we want to work 
with schools and work with the NCAA to 
design a platform which benefits all stake-holders while at the same time emphasizing education.”
Besides the cease-and-desist letter, UF 
has made no further contact with Fanpay, 
and the school’s compliance department did 
not respond to a request for comment.
The NCAA has not legally responded to 
Fanpay directly, and also did not respond to an inquiry for comment, but it did publish 
an educational column on Nov. 30 address-
ing the topic of crowdfunding in general. The column states that unless the individual athlete, or the school acting on his or her be-half, takes steps to stop the crowdfunding 
website from raising money for them the 
athlete can be ruled ineligible.
But what if the schools and athletes just 
ignore the crowdfunding websites? It seems 
simple enough: plead ignorance when the 
NCAA comes investigating and you’re free and clear. But Kevin Trahan, a college foot-ball writer at SB Nation who specializes in NCAA issues, says that because of the 
NCAA’s moving-target-style enforcement 
strategy, the association could use Fanpay to leverage athletes against schools.
“If they wanted to they could definitely say ‘Hey this kid clearly knew about this 
when he was there and he took money for 
playing during these years, and therefore be-cause he took the money for playing during these years you lose your wins from these years’, something like that,” Trahan said. “I 
think that’s what the schools are afraid of.”
In January, athletic directors in the pow-
er-five conferences voted to grant full cost of attendance to its athletes and also let them 
borrow against their potential future earn-ings to buy loss-of-value insurance in case of a career-ending injury.
When asked in early February, UF ath-
letics director Jeremy Foley said he was pleased that the full-cost-of-attendance era had arrived, but he’s against a potential pay-for-play future in collegiate athletics.
“I’ve always been an opponent of com-
pensating student athletes,” Foley said. 
“We’ll do as much as we can for them, 
and (full cost of attendance) is a perfect ex-ample. If we’d do some things as it relates to grad school, that would be good as well. A stipend for student athletes? I’ve always had 
a problem with that and I hope it doesn’t go 
that way.”
No UF athletes have any money pledged 
to them, but former defensive back Loucheiz Purifoy’s profile has 113 views, followed by 
linebacker Jarrad Davis (61) and basketball 
player Alex Murphy (56).
Southeastern Conference Commissioner-
select Greg Sankey echoed a similar stance 
about the new frontier of student-athlete 
compensation at his introductory press con-ference during the 2015 SEC Men’s Basket-ball Tournament.
“I’ve been clear that cost of attendance is 
centered on the student athlete’s education, which is at the center of what we do and is really the appropriate boundary for the pro-vision of the type of financial aid support through athletic scholarships,” Sankey said.
He did not elaborate on crowdfunding or 
any other type of student athlete pay beyond that of athletic scholarship.
While crowdfunding in theory may seem 
like a revolutionary way to compensate stu-
dents, Trahan hit on the biggest issue when 
it gets put into practice: the crowd must ac-tually fund the website in order for it to con-
tinue. Trahan sees fans as willing to help out 
in specific cases, like Baylor running back Silas Nacita claiming to be homeless, but not so willing to contribute enough to fund en-tire rosters.
“If you ask fans to pitch in to get a star 
recruit to their schools, and if you see like a big story like this Baylor thing, I think they’d pitch in for that too, but I’m not sure they’re just going to pitch in to help athletes when 
they’re already (in school),” Trahan said. 
“They already have what they want. They have their star athlete, they have the player. The player is simply someone for their enter-tainment, which is kind of a terrible thing, 
but it seems like that’s sort of how fans act.”
The ideal step for Fanpay’s future is for 
schools to set up their own crowdfunding 
systems through its booster clubs or work-ing through Fanpay to do so. Of course, that 
is not something that the schools can do on 
their own. It would take wholesale reform at 
the top, and would take a coalition of mem-
ber institutions to come together to do so if the NCAA isn’t forced to by the courts.  
Tony Klausing may be on his crusade 
for change, but for Trahan, the jury is out 
on how successful Fanpay can be and what 
amount of change it will actually bring.
“The thing that could really change it 
from the outside would be one of these huge lawsuits like (the antitrust lawsuit against the NCAA by sports labor attorney Jeffrey) 
Kessler, where the courts basically say ‘you 
have to,’” Trahan said. “It’s hard for me to see them being forced to change just from like what Fanpay’s going to do. I don’t know 
if they would fight it but I don’t know if it 
would make that much of a difference, like that’s going to be the thing that ultimately changes the NCAA.”
NCAA , from page 13
“Because our mission is to help college athletes graduate, to improve 
graduation rates and to give them a down payment on life for when they 
finish their degree.”
Tony Klausing
Fanpay co-founderGRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
With the Atlanta Hawks ﬂ  y-
ing towards the ﬁ  nish as the NBA 
Eastern Conference’s No. 1 seed, former Florida Gator and current Hawks center Al Horford is soar-
ing – and not just on the court.
Horford’s wife, former Miss 
Universe Amelia Vega, gave birth 
to the couple’s ﬁ  rst child on Feb. 23, a boy named Ean Horford-Ve-
ga. While Horford must wish he could spend more time with his 
son and wife, the Hawks are cur-rently the class of the NBA head-ing into tonight’s matchup with Golden State.
Atlanta is the ﬁ  rst team to clinch 
a playoff spot in the notoriously inferior East, and the team leads the second-place Cleveland Cava-liers by 11 games. The Warriors are half a game ahead of the Hawks for the best record in the NBA head-ing into the matchup, and Atlanta has a chance to take the best record and clinch home-court advantage throughout the playoffs.
Out west, the Warriors have 
been rolling, but at the expense of David Lee. 
A perennial starter for the team 
in previous seasons, Lee made just his ﬁ  rst start of the season on Fri-day in an upset loss to the Denver Nuggets. 
As the postseason approaches 
in April, playoff-bound teams plan on resting their starters on certain nights to get the team healthy. Golden State coach Steve Kerr 
chose to rest starting center An-
drew Bogut to make room for Lee, and Lee responded with 13 points while grabbing four rebounds in 31 minutes. A two-time NBA All-Star, Lee’s play has declined this year due to early-season injuries, re-sulting in Kerr benching him com-pletely for three of the team’s last 
seven games despite being healthy.
Like Kerr and the Warriors, the 
Chicago Bulls are trying to rest 
some of their starters as the team pushes towards the postseason. 
One of those to feel the effects of 
the minutes limit is former Gator Joakim Noah. 
Bulls management imposed a 
32-minute limit for games on Noah to limit soreness as the center con-tinues to recover from knee surgery he underwent in May, and Noah has said he continues to battle knee soreness regularly. 
If the Bulls hope to compete with 
Horford and the East’s elite they’ll need Noah to be fully healthy and 
ﬁ  rmly entrenched in the middle.
While Noah looks to stay 
healthy, Washington Wizards 
shooting guard Bradley Beal is get-ting healthy at the right time. 
Despite missing time with a left 
wrist fracture early in the season and a right leg injury recently, Beal has rehabbed and worked his way 
back to being a force for the ﬁ  fth-
place Wizards. 
The St. Louis, Missouri, native 
had arguably his most complete game of the season on Monday night against the Portland Trail-blazers, scoring a team-high 23 points on 8-of-13 shooting with seven assists in the win. The Wiz-
ards still have a chance at clinching 
home-court advantage in the ﬁ  rst round of the playoffs as the team sits just a game out of third place.16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015
AP Photo
Atlanta Hawks’ Al Horford dunks against the Los Angeles Lakers 
during the ﬁ  rst half of the Hawks’ 91-86 win over the Lakers on Sunday in Los Angeles. 
GATORS IN THE NBAHorford leading the way for Hawks
ENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer @eneisyr29
The No. 2 Florida women’s 
tennis team (13-1, 5-0 South-
eastern Conference) returned back home after a busy week-end on the road.
The Gators remain un-
defeated in SEC play and clinched the win in its last three road matches — includ-ing two sweeps last weekend. 
Florida proved to be too 
much for Arkansas on Friday, ﬁ  nishing the contest with a 7-0 win.
The Gators also beat Mis-
souri 7-0 on Sunday. UF struggled early during singles against the Tigers, but were able to close all six singles matches.
As for doubles on Sunday, 
the Gators set the tone at the beginning of the outing and 
secured the doubles point.
Coach Roland Thornqvist 
thinks that overall this past 
weekend was a successful one for his young squad.
“It’s really interesting 
watching this team, how we sort of have evolved these three months that we have 
been going on in spring,” 
Thornqvist said. “When we ﬁ  rst started in January, I thought our doubles play was really good and was ahead of our singles play.”
Thornqvist thinks this 
young group is currently looking good at both singles and doubles — which is help-ful with the difﬁ  cult stretch coming up. He said the team is learning to rely more on its athleticism and strength in singles.
The Gators are taking ad-
vantage of the ﬁ  ve day rest period to focus on the upcom-ing matchups at practice this week.
“Last Tuesday we had a 
very physical practice, when our men were playing, and this team really handled it well,” Thornqvist said. “Tues-
day is traditionally our ﬁ  tness 
day. And so with this young team, last Tuesday was really tough and the team handled it really well.”
Thornqvist is looking for-
ward to how the athletes’ at-titudes are going to be at prac-tice, and whether or not they 
will have the same appetite 
for work as hard as they did at last week’s practice.
He said that his players 
should not be anxious or let the fear of ﬁ  tness cloud their practice.Florida remains per-
fect in SEC play
Upcoming Schedule
Friday: 
Florida vs. Ole Miss - 5 p.m.
Sunday: 
Florida vs. Mississippi State - 1 p.m.
Tuesday: 
Florida @ T exas A&M - 3 p.m.UF W omen’s T ennis