VOLUME 109 ISSUE 84 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Smathers Panama Canal exhibit offers construction insight
The exhibit is marked by seven signs on campus, pg 8.  
Former Supreme Court justice speaks on death penalty
He also answered questions about his book, pg 9. A lost goat’s journey baaaaaaa-ck home
Salt the goat was reunited with his parents and 
twin sister, pg. 5. 74/49
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13
The UF men’s 
basketball team 
lost its ﬁ  rst home 
SEC game since 
2012 on Tuesday. 
Read the story on 
Page 15.
LOCAL
 STUDENTS RUNNING FOR CITY COMMISSION FACE A TOUGH RACE.
JAMES MCLAUGHLIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Santa Fe College student and a UF doc-
toral candidate are both ready to face challeng-
es reminiscent of the 2013 Gainesville election.
Lucas Jewell, a 23-year-old Santa Fe eco-
nomics sophomore, and Chris Weaver, a 
28-year-old UF public policy and administra-
tion doctoral candidate, are both running for Gainesville City Commission for District 1 — the most recent in a group of student candi-dates to run. 
“We shouldn’t see each other as a separate political entity,” said Gainesville Mayor Ed Braddy.  “Students are such a large part of our community that we need to understand the is-
sues that matter to them and how best to ad-
dress them.”
Braddy said he believes students running 
for ofﬁ  ce show that students are genuinely in-terested in how the city works. He added that some city ofﬁ  cials also hold other jobs, and he assumes students who run will ﬁ  nd a balance as well. “Anyone who accepts political ofﬁ  ce has to 
balance the responsibilities,” Braddy said.
Prior to Jewell and Weaver, Alfredo Espi-
nosa ran for the District 4 City Commission seat. The 22-year-old UF building construction senior ran in 2013, and with his team he faced challenges from the community head-on.
The vote from Gainesville residents was 
something the campaign team knew wouldn’t be easy.
“We realized really early that it was going 
to be hard to court the older Gainesville vote,” 
said John Rodstrom, Espinosa’s campaign 
treasurer. “We skipped the ﬁ  rst forum be-cause we wanted to know about all the issues and that we were not just these kids.”
During that forum, the incumbent Randy 
Wells jokingly talked to the empty chair next to him, Rodstrom said. However, they quickly earned the respect of the Gainesville commu-nity.
“We went into the second forum knowing 
all the issues,” Rodstrom said. “People were actually clapping for us.”
However, they focused more on the stu-
dents.
Current candidate Chris Weaver said stu-
dents who run for ofﬁ  ce often face the nega-tive perception of a short residency and criti-cism that they don’t care as much about the 
larger Gainesville community.
But not him, he said. He hopes to increase 
economic opportunities in Gainesville like 
working on the economic disparity in east Gainesville.Student campaigns prompt memories of 2013 city election
“Anyone who accepts political 
ofﬁ  ce has to balance the 
responsibilities.”
Ed Braddy
Gainesville mayorAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
From left: Amir Avin, 20, Jenna Goldman, 21, Joe Andreoli, 23, and Christina Marshall, 19, all UF stu-
dents, watch President Obama’s State of the Union address at Murphree Hall Area Commons at the College Democrats watch party Tuesday night.
SEE COMMISSION, PAGE 4ALYSSA FISHER and   
MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writers mmihm@alligator.org
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
President Barack Obama sug-
gested ways to expand educa-
tional opportunities and make 
education more affordable dur-
ing his annual State of the Union address Tuesday night in Wash-ington, D.C.
“We are 15 years into this 
new century. Fifteen years that dawned with terror touching our shores; that unfolded with a new generation ﬁ  ghting two long and 
costly wars; that saw a vicious 
recession spread across our na-tion and the world. It has been, and still is, a hard time for many. 
But tonight, we turn the page,” 
he said.
The speech addressed a few is-
sues related to college students.
The president expanded on 
his earlier proposal to make two years of community college free for students in good academic standing. 
He said this would reduce the 
cost of a four-year education and improve the quality of commu-nity college, which enrolls nearly 40 percent of all undergraduates.
The president also spoke 
about his education tax-reform plan, which would cut taxes for 8.5 million families and students as well as provide students work-ing toward a college degree with up to $2,500 of assistance each year for ﬁ  ve years.
Obama also suggested inno-
vating secondary education. He plans to launch next-generation high schools with cutting-edge laboratories and science, technol-ogy, engineering and mathemat-ics curricula. 
He said he also plans to focus 
on preparing more women and students of color for roles in these ﬁ  elds.
In Gainesville, the UF College 
Democrats piled on couches at Murphree Hall Area Commons 
as the president addressed the 
nation. Phones in hand, they sent out text messages and softly clapped in between sentences.
“I think the president did a re-
ally good job of focusing on the 
issues that Americans care the 
most about — the issues demo-crats have fought for for the past six years,” said Amir Avin, UF 
College Democrats president.
The 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance 
junior said he is happy Obama is 
prioritizing issues that mean a lot to everyday Americans, like the 
environment and education.
“We’re hopeful that the 
president and the Republican 
Congress meet halfway to pass 
through legislation that will offer 
some relief to American families who need it the most,” he said.
UF College of Republicans 
chairwoman Kailyn Allen, 20, 
said she did not watch the ad-
dress with other members of the organization. 
However, she said she saw 
their reactions on social media — and they weren’t happy.
“President Obama is a fantas-
tic orator who is proposing horri-ble policies,” the political science 
sophomore wrote in an email.
Allen said Obama’s policies 
are not free and will have a nega-
tive impact, despite what he stat-
ed in his address.
“‘Free healthcare’ and ‘free 
college’ does not appear out of 
thin air,” she said. “They will cost a lot of money and our gen-
eration will be the ones who have 
to pay for it.”UF reacts to Pres. Obama’s annual State of the Union
Main points about higher education, middle classNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 84 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
SUNNY
64/47RAIN
60/38RAIN
71/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/54PARTLY 
CLOUDY
74/49
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. are uninsured to sign up 
for health insurance on the exchange. Insurance 
brokers and agents will be 
present to help attendees enroll. They will also be having a health fair featur-
ing blood pressure screen-
ings, diabetes screenings, nutrition advice and Ask the Pharmacist. This is put on with the help of The 
Gainesville Chapter of The 
Links, Incorporated, Enroll America, The Wooly, Epilepsy Foundation and 
Suwannee River Area 
Health Education Center. It will be at the Wooly down-town at 20 N Main St. on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Make sure to have so-
cial security numbers and a recent W-2 or pay stub with you. RSVPs are avail-
able at getcoveredamerica.
org/connector. For more information, contact the event coordinator David O’Malley at 352-301-0135.
Family FunDay at the 
Matheson History Museum
Celebrate more than 1,500 
years of Gainesville his-tory with the installation of the Matheson’s new permanent exhibition en-
titled “Exploring Our 
Native Heritage,” which features a 1,500-year-old Timucuan canoe. This 
event, held Sunday from 1 
to 4 p.m., will also feature Native American dancing, educational activities, face painting and much more. 
Another FunDay, which 
will be held on Feb. 15 from 1 to 4 p.m., will give visi-tors the opportunity to ex-
plore the contributions the 
African-American commu-nity made to blues music. 
Florida Museum’s Adult 
Volunteer OrientationWant to become a Florida Museum of Natural History volunteer? The first step is 
attending the new volun-
teer orientation Monday from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. to help find the best match for your interests and abilities. 
Volunteers serve as exhibit 
guides to school groups and other museum visitors or provide assistance in the 
research and collections ar-
eas. Pre-registration is re-quired and volunteers must be 18 or older. For more WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Humanists on Campus meeting
Humanists on Campus aims to be the secular presence on 
campus offering a commu-
nity to students interested in secular humanism, or the be-lief that humans are inherent-
ly capable of good without 
direction from supernatural beings or institutionalized re-ligion. HoC offers bi-weekly discussion-based meetings, 
community service opportu-
nities — including participa-tion in Relay for Life — and social events like movie 
nights, potlucks and outings 
to local sites and events. If you are interested in joining, stop by our first meeting to-day at 7:30 p.m. in Matherly 
Hall Room 011. We welcome 
members of all backgrounds and perspectives, and food will be provided! Make sure 
to check out our Facebook 
page as well: facebook.com/groups/ufhumanists/ 
Intramural Sports in Spring 
2015Intramural sports kick off in Spring 2015 with outdoor soccer followed by 4-on-4 
flag football and 5-on-5 bas-
ketball. Today is the last day to register for both flag foot-ball and basketball. Other sports offered this semester 
include swimming, sand vol-
leyball, tennis, dodgeball, a two-person golf scramble and inner-tube water polo. 
Register on IMLeagues. Visit 
recsports.ufl.edu for the full schedule and more informa-tion.
The Hippodrome and New 
York Film Critics Series Present a Pre-Release Screening of CAKE
The Hippodrome Cinema 
and the New York Film Critics Series are partnering to present a private, pre-re-lease screening of Cake star-
ring Jennifer Aniston. Arrive 
at 7 p.m. for an exclusive pre-show captured introduction by NYFCS Host Peter Travers 
(Rolling Stone Magazine, 
ABC-TV). Stick around after the screening for a captured live broadcast Q&A with Jennifer Aniston. Tickets are 
$15 and include a compli-
mentary bag of popcorn. The Hippodrome Cinema is lo-cated inside the Hippodrome 
State Theatre at 25 SE Second 
Place. For a complete listing of films and additional show-times, please visit thehipp.org.
Healthy Resolutions: Get 
Covered at the WoolyA community enrollment 
event to assist those who information, visit flmnh.ufl.
edu/volunteers/ or call 352-
273-2056.
Model railroader workshop
Model railroaders and peo-
ple interested in the hobby 
have a special opportunity 
to learn and share on Jan. 31 in Alachua. The event is open to the public. Beginners 
are welcome. The program 
is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission is $5 per person. Workshops will be held in the fellowship hall of First 
United Methodist Church, 
located at 14805 NW 140th St. in Alachua. Skilled instruc-tors will conduct workshops, 
and experienced hobbyists 
will show samples of their work. A lighting workshop will feature use of LED light-ing on a layout. The session 
will cover electrical needs, 
selecting LEDs and tips on installation. More informa-tion is available online at nc-
frailroadclub.weebly.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s news-
paper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter above events, and keep them 150 words or few-
er. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
“I’m not just a graduate student,” he 
said, “I have the knowledge and experience 
in public finance.”
Lucas Jewell said another issue facing 
students who run for city commission is that, historically, students don’t vote.
“In elections where you need only about 
1,000 votes to win, if the students voted en masse, they could determine the outcome,” Jewell said.
Jewell said he has a nine-part platform, 
including lowering utility rates and soften-ing the punishment for minor drug offenses.
As for the Espinosa campaign, it facili-
tated the student vote by bringing absentee ballots to designated Greek leaders.
“We made it as easy as possible for the 
student,” Rodstrom said. “They didn’t have to go to the polls. We really streamlined the process.”
With about 27 percent of the vote, Espi-
nosa finished second to Randy Wells but ahead of W.E. “Mac” McEachern.
“We weren’t actually depressed,” Rod -
strom said. “It was actually kind of cool. Mayor Ed Braddy called us.”4, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator
Redbox co-founder Mike DeLazzer speaks in Heavener Hall on Tuesday. He told the story 
of how the company was started and answered questions in front of about 100 people at a meeting of the Entrepreneurship Club.
PAOLA ASENCIO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mike DeLazzer visited UF to share an 
important life lesson with students: Nev-
er give up on an opportunity.
DeLazzer, co-founder of Redbox, 
joined the UF Entrepreneurship Club in Heavener Hall at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday to share his story of successfully turning a 
simple idea into a growing company to 
a packed classroom of more than 25 stu-dents.
Redbox was originally meant for air-
ports to provide entertainment for peo-
ple constantly on the go, he said.
DeLazzer said his marriage was fail-
ing and he was on the verge of losing his 
house when McDonald’s Corp. offered 
him an eight-week opportunity to turn 
around a successful DVD rental product.When the deadline approached, Mc-
Donald’s representatives said the pro-totype didn’t meet its full potential, and they threatened to move on. DeLazzer said he demanded 24 more hours to com-
plete the product. 
Luckily, McDonald’s representatives 
agreed.
“I had a feeling of exhilaration, fol-
lowed by a wave of fear,” DeLazzer said.
After a sleepless night, DeLazzer pre-
sented a complete prototype.
“If I hadn’t asked for those 24 hours, 
(Redbox) wouldn’t have happened,” DeLazzer said.
Isaac Mizrahi, a 25-year-old UF law 
student, said he this was an unique op-
portunity to meet a renowned entrepre-
neur.
“It was informative to learn about the 
struggle,” Mizrahi said.Redbox co-founder talks 
entrepreneurship, persistence
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
woman Tuesday morning after 
she reportedly smashed two crack pipes during a traffic stop. 
Just after mid-
night, Cheryl Denise Stephens, 48, of 500 SE 18th St., was the pas-senger in a car that was stopped for an improper right turn on East University Av-
enue, according to a police report.
Although Stephens agreed to 
be searched by police, she walked away from the car as soon as offi-cers arrived at the scene. Stephens removed two crack pipes from her jacket pocket and threw them away from the car. She then began to stomp on the pipes in an attempt to destroy them, according to the report.
Stephens continued to step on 
them despite being told to stop by the officers. 
When police tried to arrest her, 
she refused to put her hands behind her back then tensed up her arms while being handcuffed. 
Since 2009, Stephens has been 
arrested three times for resisting ar-rest and nine times for drug posses-sion, according to county records. She was most recently arrested on 
prostitution charges on Dec. 4, 2013. 
Stephens was taken to Alachua 
County Jail where she is being held 
on charges of drug equipment pos-session, destroying evidence and re-sisting an officer without violence. As of press time, she remained in jail in lieu of a $5,000 bond.Police: Woman smashes 
crack pipes during traffic stop, resists arrest
Stephens
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
UF student senators found themselves in an 
unfamiliar setting at Tuesday night’s UF Stu-
dent Senate meeting.
Regardless of a last-minute Levin College 
of Law classroom change, UF student senators passed three student bills on the agenda, which requested $6,422.50 in funding. 
The Florida Swing Dancing club requested 
$3,575, the Gainesville chapter of Fashion For-
ward asked for $2,437 and the National Organi-
zations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws said it needed $410.50.
Funding for Florida Swing Dancing club 
and Gainesville chapter of Fashion Forward 
were passed unanimously. One objection to the 
passing of the NORML bill was made by Sen. Paul Stevenson.
Allocations Chairwoman Sen. Leah Miller gave a short presentation explaining that the funds requested from NORML would go to-ward raising awareness through speakers, ad-vertising and education.  
“We funded them last semester,” she said. 
“It’s more of them just raising awareness for their beliefs.”
Sen. Stevenson wanted to make sure the or-
ganization was not planning to use the funds for lobbying, which would be a violation of the SG Constitution.
He also wanted to make sure the NORML 
chapter was not receiving funds from the na-
tional organization.
Rules and Ethics Chairman Sen. Anthony 
Sorrentino said the NORML bill was reviewed 
closely, but no intentions for lobbying were 
found.
“It is not a lobbying organization, and it is 
not the only organization on campus that has 
ties to national organizations,” Sen. Sorrentino said.
Sen. Miller said the chapter has no ties with 
the national organization, explaining its intent was to raise awareness.
After the Q-and-A session, the bill was 
passed unanimously.UF Senate votes to approve 
student organization funding
“It is not a lobbying organization, 
and it is not the only organization 
on campus that has ties to national 
organizations,”
Anthony Sorrentino
UF SG Senator
ASHLEY PANCOAST
Alligator Contributing Writer
They’re a topic occasionally popular on 
Yik Yak. Twitter hashtags are dedicated to 
them. And Squirrel Appreciation Day is their time to go nuts.   
It’s no question the small critters’ popu-
larity on UF’s campus is growing. Face-book has a number of groups dedicated to UF squirrels, including “UF Squirrels are Crazy” and “UF Squirrels are Plotting My Demise.”
In one 8:30 a.m. UF physiology class, 
the squirrels were the most awake. Neha Misbah, a psychology sophomore, had a squirrel show up in her class last October. 
Her professor was standing at the podium when he heard noise underneath it.
“The squirrel runs out, and it starts kind 
of like circling around the front of the class-
room for a little bit,” she said.
Students were screaming, said the 
19-year-old. One tried to catch the squirrel 
and eventually chased it out the door.
 Bob McCleery, assistant professor of 
wildlife ecology and conservation, has 
personal experience evacuating the furry friends from class, but he recommends that anyone else call pest control.
It’s not the education that draws squir-
rels to campus — it’s the big oak trees with their high-arching branches, McCleery said.
“I know why squirrels like campuses,” 
he said. “I’m not sure why students like squirrels.”Go nuts for squirrels today
COMMISSION , from page 1Focus not only student issuesWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
From right: Salt the goat enjoys the day with Hobbit, his mother, and Mittens, his sibling from another litter.
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer
ghall@alligator.org
Discoveries in the sky won’t 
necessarily be reﬂ  ected on 
Gainesville’s streets.
According to a new study 
published in the journal 
Monthly Notices of the Royal 
Astronomical Society Letters, at least two dwarf planets exist in our solar system just beyond Pluto.
“If these dwarf planets exist, 
it is possible to not have found them before because they are small and very far from the 
sun,” Anthony Gonzalez, an as-
sociate professor of astronomy at UF, wrote in an email. “The fact that they are far from the sun would make their orbits very long.”
The discovery, made 
through calculations by scien-tists at the Complutense Uni-
versity of Madrid in Spain and 
the University of Cambridge, explains the gravitational pull that is occurring on distant space rocks called extreme trans-Neptunian objects.
Despite the recent discov-
ery, there most likely won’t be any additions to the Gainesville 
Solar Walk — although it re-
mains a possibility.
Created in 2002 by artist Eliz-
abeth Indianos, the Gainesville Solar Walk is a 4-billion-to-one scale of the solar system. How-ever, there have only been mi-nor changes made to the public art project that has lined North-west Eighth Avenue for more than a decade.
Indianos said any addition 
to improve the accuracy of the Gainesville Solar Walk is some-thing she is interested in.
“It was always something 
we were going to further ex-pand and deﬁ  ne,” Indianos said.
The project, created in col-
laboration with the Alachua Astronomy Club, initially cost $30,000.
With Pluto being relegated 
to “dwarf planet” status in 2006, there was talk that the statue of Pluto would be removed.
The club eventually decided 
that Pluto would remain in its place.
For now, the Solar Walk 
will remain as it is, entertain-ing and educating observers in 
Gainesville.
“We can argue and have 
a discourse in what category 
the planets fall in,” Indianos said. “The more complete, the better, and the more entertain-ing the Solar Walk is for the scientiﬁ  c community and for Gainesville.”
The last additions to the 
solar walk were in September 2008, when two Comet Halley structures, also constructed by Indianos, were added.New dwarf planets 
won’t change GNV Solar Walk art pieceKATHRYN VARN
Alligator Staff Writer kvarn@alligator.org
If you’ve ever wondered what a 
goat family reunion may look like, 
Laura Labine can tell you.
First, mother and son lock eyes as 
the other goats look on.
Then, the mother steps forward, 
and the son’s tail starts “going at 90 miles per hour,” Labine said.
The two ﬁ  nally run toward each 
other. They meet in the middle. They 
are together again following a two-
week separation that ended with a 
rescue by some sheriff’s deputies in a neighborhood behind a buffet — no place for a baby goat.
“He’s doing great now,” said 
Labine, who lives in High Springs. “He’s happy to be back.”
The journey started at Christmas, 
when Labine, 56, gave the young male goat — named Salt for his cream-colored fur — to a co-worker of her husband as a gift for the co-worker’s kids.
But not even a week later, Salt 
disappeared from the family’s home 
in Alachua. Labine took to Craig-
slist, offering a $100 reward for any-one who returned Salt.
She only had access to Jackson-
ville news at her home, so she didn’t know that Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies had received calls of a cream-colored goat wander-ing around a neighborhood behind 
Brown’s Country Buffet, located at 
14423 Martin Luther King Blvd. in Alachua.  
The deputies took him back to 
the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce impound yard, where he lived snacking on sweet feed mix and sleeping in a tub.
“We stuck the tub out there to give him something to get into, to give him like, a little home,” said Deputy Brandon Jones.
Salt was set to be auctioned off 
Saturday. It was a close call for La-bine, who found out three days 
before from her husband that the 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce had picked up a goat — her goat.
“I won’t be parting with any 
more of my babies,” she said. “They’re family.”
So she picked Salt up in her truck 
and brought him back to his beard-ed mother, Hobbit; his twin black-
furred sister, Pepper; his father, 
Bandit; his siblings from a different litter, Bootsie and Mittens; and the six dogs, six rabbits and 20-some-thing chickens.
They were a family again.Alligator Staff Writer Emily Co-
chrane contributed to this report.A lost goat’s journey baaaa-ck home Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
New Connecticut 
Taser law a step in 
the right direction
Little known fact: “Taser” is actually an acronym for 
“Thomas A. Swift’s Electric Riﬂ  e,” which is high in the running for snazziest name of anything, ever. Thomas 
Swift, by the way, is the main character of a young adult science ﬁ  ction series from the 1910s. 
It was developed because back in the day, there weren’t any 
good ways to subdue a belligerent person other than guns and what essentially amounted to big sticks. The use of either object ran the risk of unintentional death, which was a bit of a problem. But necessity is the mother of badass invention.
Designed to be a less-than-lethal option for civilians and law 
enforcement engaged in less-than-lethal situations, Tasers deliv-er a powerful electric shock to whomever they’re used against. This has the effect of overwhelming the victim’s muscles and 
nerve tissue, reducing them to a quivering sack of organs.
Tasers gained notoriety in 2007, in an incident here at our 
very own university. A Taser was used on then-21-year-old tele-
communication senior Andrew Meyer by University Police for getting belligerent with former Sen. John Kerry and embarrass-ing the members of Accent Speaker’s Bureau. Meyer’s exclama-tion — “Don’t tase me, bro!” — was immortalized soon there-after. In that instance, the Taser did its job. Meyer ceased to be a nuisance but survived 5,000 volts being forced into his body.
But there’s a problem with Tasers. It’s part of the very same 
less-than-lethal nature of the weapon that makes it so useful and desirable. The unfortunate truth is Tasers have enormous poten-
tial for abuse by law enforcement.
And who can blame ofﬁ  cers in that case? Why put up with 
an obnoxious and potentially dangerous individual when you 
have in your hands the power to shock them into blubbering submission? Even if it isn’t entirely justiﬁ  ed, abusive use of a Taser does not produce evidence so damning as, say, a corpse.
Except it often does. While not intended to be lethal, Tasers 
remain incredibly dangerous and can cause death when mis-used. A cursory Google search reveals many examples of inten-
tional and accidental killings caused by Tasers, and many occur 
at the hand of law enforcement. Not only is this troubling, but it completely defeats the purpose of using Tasers in the ﬁ  rst place.
A new law that will go into effect soon in Connecticut aims 
to cut down Taser abuse by law enforcement in the state. Signed by the governor last summer, the law requires all police depart-ments to adhere to strict standards for using Tasers. It’s the strictest law of its type in the entire country — ofﬁ  cers must re-port and extensively document every incident involving a Taser 
or stun gun, similar to existing policies regarding ﬁ  rearms. The 
new legislation is partly a response to the death of a 22-year-old man in April of last year, one of 14 deaths involving a Taser in Connecticut since 2005.
It’s an applaudable step; tasers are a crucial weapon in a po-
lice ofﬁ  cer’s arsenal. Ensuring documentation of their use will 
lead to a more responsible and transparent institution of law 
enforcement.
53 TOTAL VOTES53% YES
47% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Have you donated 
blood before? Today’s question: Did you watch the State of the 
Union?Anti-abortion laws a setback for women
Unless you come from Texas, or you keep up with the 
intricacies of state politics, you probably aren’t aware of the fact that Texas currently only has seven func-
tional abortion clinics. Some people will probably say that seven is plenty, or perhaps too much. Some people might be 
horriﬁ  ed by the fact that I say there should be and need to be 
more. Texas is the biggest state in America, and as of 2013, a safe and healthy medical procedure is now likely impossible for many people who don’t have the resources or ability to go to an abortion clinic that could be hundreds of miles away.
However, does that affect us here in Florida, where in my 
hometown I lived close enough to an abortion clinic to drive by it every time I went downtown? It does.
The reason so many Texas abortion clinics were shut 
down is the Texas Senate Bill 5, which included new regula-tions mandating that all abortion clinics in the state meet am-bulatory surgical center regulations and for abortion-clinic doctors to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. For many clinics, the expense of adding these regulations was too immense, and many closed almost immediately. Oppo-nents of the bill in Texas at the time declared it created un-necessary regulations intended to reduce access to abortions for citizens. They were right.
Many hospitals are unwilling to give doctors who per-
form abortions admitting privileges out of fear that their own funding will be cut or because of anti-choice views. And many abortion clinics in the U.S. are small and underfunded. 
Abortion is usually a very safe, non-invasive procedure 
if done early. With the strides technology has made in the 21st century, it is now possible for an abortion to be entirely non-invasive and not require any inpatient care. Surgical center regulations are less necessary and are simply a gambit 
by those against abortion to shut down places for women to 
receive safe medical care.
Abortion clinics in Florida are now in danger of being 
prescribed the same overreaching regulations designed to restrict access to a safe procedure. On Jan. 8, HB 147 went into the Health Quality Subcommittee. The bill is sponsored by republicans Rep. Walter Bryan Hill, fomer president of the Northwest Florida Tea Party, and Rep. Scott Plakon. If passed, the bill would require doctors who perform abortions in Florida to have admitting privi-leges at a hospital within 30 miles of the abortion clinic, effective July 
1. Like the law in Texas and similar 
anti-abortion legislation in Louisi-ana and Oklahoma, the initiative is part of TRAP — Target Regulation of Abortion Providers.
Much like the creepy acronym, these laws are a trap to try 
to discourage women who need abortions. I can tell you one thing: Whether you are pro- or anti-choice, abortions aren’t going to stop happening. No woman ever wants to have an 
abortion, but for hundreds of years it has been happening. 
Now, women with no money or support, women with 
lives they can’t put on hold and women who have been vic-
tims of rape or incest have access to safe and healthy medical care. In the past, women who performed abortions on them-selves suffered from severe blood loss, psychological issues and mutilated reproductive organs. 
If these laws go into effect and abortion clinics are forced 
to close their doors because of expensive and unneeded reg-
ulations, it will not only rob women of the right to control 
their own bodies and choices, but also force many desperate women to revert back to dangerous methods of abortion.
Abortion clinics often offer contraception, safe-sex tutori-
als and workshops on consent and healthy sexual lifestyles. Places like Planned Parenthood offer family and relationship counseling and support.
I don’t often see anti-choice people walking around hand-
ing out condoms, providing adoption services or informing 
others about healthy sexual choices. I see fake, triggering 
posters on Turlington Plaza. I see people using guilt and fear tactics. I see holier-than-thou politicians shutting down abor-tion clinics with underhanded campaigns. And I think it is disgusting. Women’s health is a fundamental issue that bills geared toward shutting down abortion clinics don’t take into account. Who is really pro-life in this equation?
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations sophomore. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7MLK and ‘American Sniper’: Light will 
drive out darkness
It’s heartbreaking and infuriating to 
observe that this weekend — officially 
dedicated to commemorating the legacy of a great pacifist and visionary of a more just world — was hijacked by Hollywood 
and rededicated to a film, which serves to 
glorify American militarism; attempt once again to justify the unthinkably savage slaughter waged for a decade in Iraq; and reignite hatred against Arabs and Mus-lims. Just check Twitter.
There is nothing heroic about invad-
ing a foreign land on false pretenses, brutalizing and murdering the captive 
civilian population and destroying civil-
ian infrastructure, as well as thousands of years worth of buildings and antiquities. Clint Eastwood’s attempt to humanize the militants among us who undertook this slaughter is yet another insult to the memory of all those who fell victim to America’s merciless war machine, Ameri-can and Iraqi alike.
Granted, the film does figure into a 
larger genre of racist propaganda that 
serves to provide an “artistic” comple-
ment to the narrative provided by state media. (Another work) that falls into this category is Kathryn Bigelow’s “The Hurt Locker.”“The Hurt Locker” and “Ameri-can Sniper” are of the same ilk, as they aim to instruct us that the inhabitants of the Middle East are sub-humans.
As Martin Luther King Jr. demonstrat-
ed heroically, there is no glory in violence and no honor in upholding institutional-ized murder carried out by agents of the state. As he proclaimed in 1967, “The time has come for America to hear the truth about this tragic war. In international con-flicts, the truth is hard to come by because most nations are deceived about them-selves. Rationalizations and the incessant 
search for scapegoats are the psychologi-cal cataracts that blind us to our sins. But 
the day has passed for superficial patrio-tism. He who lives with untruth lives in spiritual slavery.”
I pray that we may free ourselves of 
the deception that it is our divine calling to police and brutalize the world, rejecting “rationalizations,” such as these films, of our violence. I pray also that we whole-heartedly accept Dr. King’s message that we still have much to do here, improving our own country by focusing on the bet-terment of our own populace.
Once again, it is disheartening to ob-
serve that this year’s commemoration of MLK was overshadowed by the release of a shameless glorification of war. Thank-fully, neither the sniper who took King’s life nor all the militants in the world can crush the dream of peace that lives some-where within each of us. Long live MLK!
Jordan MacKenzie
First-year linguistics graduate student
Letter to the Editor
Imagine an average student with an iPhone: She gives $45 a month to AT&T for cell ser-vice. If she switched to my $12.71 Republic 
Wireless plan, she’d save approximately $387 a year. That’s about 28 jars of Nutella from Ama-
zon, or about 49 months of Netflix.
My first phone 
was for emergencies. 
It was a gray Trac-Fone with an annoy-ing chirp and a small physical keyboard. I think the phone is still col-lecting dust in a cupboard somewhere; I couldn’t find it on the TracFone website. I do remember 
having fun inputting prepaid minute card codes.
I needed a reliable way to acquire digits and 
schedule dates, so before I moved to Gainesville, 
I started researching. I’m cheap, so I needed an object that wouldn’t give me buyer’s remorse. But I also needed a status symbol.
First, I hacked together an iPhone. I used 
money from part-time jobs to buy a black iPod Touch, signed up for a Google Voice phone num-
ber, and used a Voice over Internet Protocol app 
called Talkatone to make and receive free calls over Wi-Fi. Crackly noise and lag turned phone conversations into a Blue’s Clues episode, so I re-turned the iPod.
Freshman year at UF, I rocked Virgin Mo-
bile’s HTC One V. For $35, I had slow, unlimited 3G data from Sprint and unlimited texting on an Android smartphone. I had a cap at 300 min-
utes a month, so I abused Talkatone whenever I 
needed to talk too much. I didn’t get service in the usual places: underground caves, rural areas and the UF New Physics Building.
I desired a provider that took advantage of 
my surroundings: On campus, there’s Wi-Fi ev-erywhere. Enter VoIP provider Republic Wire-less.
I’ve been a Republic customer for almost two 
years now. They expect users to primarily use Wi-Fi calling, but its hybrid-calling algorithm is a beneficial mutation from traditional VoIP ser-vices. When I’m chilling at Volta with a clear Wi-Fi signal, the algorithm routes my calls and texts over the Wi-Fi network. When I walk outside and out of router range, the algorithm automati-cally hands me over to Sprint’s cell towers.
Occasionally, the algorithm falls asleep and 
disconnects a call instead of switching over. When that happens, I call back and pretend that I accidentally pressed the red hang-up button.
I only miss a data connection when I’m bored 
on a road trip. As long as I put in my destination address while on Wi-Fi, a GPS will direct me to the house party. When I travel abroad, I can still call and text over Wi-Fi. There’s no lag. The cell connection is usually clearer-sounding, but no-
body I talk to notices either way.
There are swappable plans at Republic’s web-
site. I can go without data, so $10 a month for 
unlimited calling and texting keeps my thumbs busy.
The $299 first-generation Motorola Moto X ar-
rived outside my apartment in a white and green box with a small instruction booklet, and it led  me through setting up service via the Internet.
My Moto X isn’t a Samsung Galaxy S5, but 
app multitasking and YouTube are fluid. I lean toward the Android camp over iOS because it’s open source software built for customization. Even the option to design the physical device with Moto Maker is useful.
As an equation: Independence from parents + 
high up-front handset cost + dirt-cheap monthly service = one happy customer.
Andrew Silver is a UF mathematics junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Save yourself 
money: Use Wi-Fi serviceColumn
Andrew Silver
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
Frank Townsend doesn’t consider Panama 
home anymore, but he does miss the music and 
the coffee.
Now an emeritus professor in the UF Depart-
ment of Civil and Coastal Engineering, Townsend 
is a third generation “zonian,” meaning he grew 
up in the Panama Canal Zone. Both of Townsend’s grandfathers worked on the canal, and that family history combined with his love for engineering led to a desire to commemorate the modern marvel.
Thus the Panama Canal Centennial Trail ex-
hibit was born, marked by seven signs stretching from Smathers Library to the Reitz Union. It is a one-hundredth scale representation of the canal 
funded mostly by local engineering companies.
“The construction and the design of the canal 
are really important to me,” Townsend said. “And so when (Smathers) came about to try to do a cen-
tennial exhibit, I was looking for a project and an exhibit that would highlight the canal.”
Each sign helps explain its engineering and 
construction history.
“If you think back to 1904, back when they 
started it, the fact that they made something this big without what we consider modern technol-ogy — that’s pretty amazing,” Townsend said. 
“It was the space shot of that particular time. It’s 
listed as one of the seven engineering marvels of the world.”
To create the exhibit, Townsend teamed up 
with Lourdes Santamaría-Wheeler, Smathers ex-hibits coordinator.
About three years ago, the Panama Canal Mu-
seum in Seminole closed down, and the collection came to UF.
While the Library of Congress has most of the 
official documents pertaining to the canal such as employee records, the Smathers collection docu-ments are more personal, Santamaría-Wheeler said.
“We have what we call the people history — 
the photographs and personal papers, the things that aren’t the official history,” she said. “But it’s an important history nonetheless because it tells us what people were going through.”
While Townsend is hoping the exhibit will 
highlight the engineering feats of the canal, Santa-maría-Wheeler said she hopes it will bring aware-ness to the Panama Canal Museum Collection and other library resources.
Santamaría-Wheeler said there are a few final 
details to finish, including printing brochures and stickers to guide people along the trail. Indefinite plans are also underway for an opening ceremo-ny.
Stephanie McComber, a UF international stud-
ies junior, volunteers with the museum collection and said the trail exhibit is a good way for stu-dents who are unfamiliar with the canal to under-stand its scope.
“Since I myself am Panamanian,” McComber, 
20, said, “I wanted to be involved in something that would give me an opportunity to learn more about my culture and history that I wouldn’t nec -
essarily learn elsewise in my classes.”Smathers Panama Canal exhibit 
offers insight into its construction
Cresonia Hsieh / Alligator
Let’s Talk MLK
Brittany Isidore, a 20-year-old UF animal sciences sophomore, fa -
cilitates a discussion Tuesday at “Remember MLK: Releasing Injus -
tices” in the Yulee recreation room.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
 HE ANSWERED QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS 
BOOK “SIX AMENDMENTS: HOW AND WHY WE SHOULD CHANGE THE CONSTITUTION.” 
ZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
Almost ﬁ  ve years after his retirement from 
the U.S. Supreme Court, former Justice John 
Paul Stevens spoke to UF students and the 
general public Tuesday afternoon about his 
personal thoughts on topics ranging from the death penalty to the Second Amendment.
Stevens, along with three UF Levin College 
of Law professors, addressed current issues regarding the U.S. Constitution to a full audi-ence at 12:30 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
As part of a lecture series hosted by the law 
school, Stevens answered questions regard-ing his recently published book, “Six Amend-ments: How and Why We Should Change the Constitution,” as well as advocated for states’ 
rights to regulate gun control.
“I certainly believe the elected representa-
tives of the people should be deciding this, not federal judges at a national level,” he said.
Lyrissa Lidsky, the associate dean for inter-
national programs and a professor at the law 
school, asked Stevens whether he had any re-grets during his time on the Supreme Court. 
He then went on to discuss his role in a rul-
ing regarding the death penalty.
“One case that I voted incorrectly in, hav-
ing openly spoke about it many times, was the Texas capital punishment case,” Stevens said, sharing the story of the 1976 Jurek v. Texas 
case that led to the widespread adoption of the 
death penalty in the U.S. court system.
He brought up a separate case to further il-
lustrate his point.
“There is a Texas case in which they exe-
cuted the wrong defendant,” Stevens said. “It is a risk that a civilized society should not al-low to develop, which is an adequate reason to amend this practice.”
Natalie Mendez, a 19-year-old UF business 
sophomore, said she agrees with Stevens and  hopes to see the death penalty abolished. 
“I don’t think that the government should 
run the risk of killing innocent people, espe-cially when we run the risk of jailing innocent people,” she said. “That’s something you can’t erase.”Former Supreme Court Justice 
speaks on capital punishment
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sing and they will listen
Alex Brown (right), 36, listens to 25-year-old Jude Kincer, of Baltimore, 
play “House of the Rising Sun” on Tuesday outside Mystic Smoke Shop.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY, 21, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 
whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-23BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
House for Rent - Minutes from UF
3BR/2BA on quiet street. SE 48th St. Perfect 
for grad student or artist. Vauled ceilins, lots 
of watery light! Mary Jane Brunel, Green 
Tree Realty 352-281-1968    1-23-15-3-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.2 female room mates needed for a 3/2 condo 
near UF, along bus route, near Lucky's mar-
ket. all utilities, TV, Internet, Security,fully fit-
ted kitchen, furnished common areas, $450 
per month per person, sorry no pets. Call 
Owner 208-589 6261    1-22-15-3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 11 
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, JANUARY, 21, 2015
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $95000 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY, 21, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
No experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14SUMMER JOBS: Summer Camp Recreation Program: Counselors/Assistant Program Supervisors/Program Supervisors/Recreation Specialists from 6/8/15-7/31/15 for chil-dren ages 5-14 and WSI/Lifeguard. City of Plantation is (west of Ft. Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave., Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org to download application   1-23-15-4-14.
Babysitter and housekeeper needed PT 9-20 hrs. per month. Must be CPR cert. Helper needed for married couple with 3 children, 3 dogs. $11/ hour. Must love kids and have cleaning and org. skills. Amber 352-226-7272    1-21-15-2-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, Energetic person.
Experience preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be available weekends.
Apply in person
Spyglass 701 SW 62nd Blvd
4-22-15-68-14
Fraternity Management Assistant.Work with Accounts Payable/Receivable, Handle Invoices, Attend Weekly Fraternity Meetings, etc. Must be dependable, knowl -
edgeable, and focused. Min of 10-15 hours a week. Email Resume to info@fratmgmt.com    1-28-15-6-14    
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
GATORS IN THE NBA
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Corey Brewer is enjoying the 
change of scenery – and the chance 
to compete for another NBA cham-pionship.
A rebuilding Minnesota Tim-
berwolves team traded Brewer to the contending Houston Rockets on Dec. 19.
Brewer has responded by be-
ing a vital contributor off the bench 
for Houston, averaging 10.9 points 
per game in his ﬁ  rst month play-
ing alongside James Harden and Dwight Howard.
Brewer was a contributor to the 
2010-11 Dallas Mavericks team that defeated LeBron James’ Miami Heat in the Finals, James’ ﬁ  rst season in South Beach.
While Brewer seemingly fell into 
a favorable situation, Joakim Noah hasn’t been as lucky. 
Injuries to Derrick Rose have hin-
dered the Chicago Bulls’ ability to compete in recent seasons – seasons that have seen Noah arguably hit his prime. 
The center, who is currently out for the Bulls with an ankle sprain, has seen success in his time play-ing professional basketball.
The reigning 
NBA Defensive Player of the Year is missing one 
thing, however, that Brewer has – an NBA Championship.
If Noah recovers from the ankle 
injuries that have plagued him this season, the Bulls are a legitimate contender in the weaker Eastern Conference.
The former Gators with perhaps 
the best shot to win an NBA title this season are Al Horford of the Atlanta Hawks, and David Lee and Mar-
reese Speights of the Golden State 
Warriors. 
Horford was named Eastern 
Conference Player of the Week after recording his ﬁ  rst career triple-dou-ble against the Philadelphia 76ers, and the Hawks sit at ﬁ  rst place in the East at 34-8.
Lee and Speights have provided strong post play for a Golden State team that has the best record in the NBA (33-6). 
Lee has missed several games 
this season with a hamstring injury, but appears to be rounding into 
form after scoring a season-high 18 
points in Saturday’s win over Brew-er’s Rockets.
Speights has been the ﬁ  rst post 
player off the bench, and has played well when ﬁ  lling in for the oft-in-jured Bogut. The Warriors face Co-rey Brewer and the Rockets tonight at 10:30.
Corey Brewer making most of opportunity with Rockets
Brewer
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Corey Brewer, Joakim 
Noah and Al Horford are all playing for potential playoff teams.  Read the 
story on page 14. UF softball starts on top
USA Today ranked the Florida softball team No. 1 in its preseason poll released Tuesday. The Gators are defending national champions.McGee earns sixth year of eligibility
Jake McGee, who suffered a broken leg in Florida’s season-opener against Eastern Michigan, was granted a sixth year of collegiate eligibility on Tuesday, McGee announced via Twitter. SOCCER
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
 It was only back on Nov. 28 that Florida soccer’s Fall season 
came to an end with a loss in penalty kicks to Stanford in the 
NCAA Tournament Quarterfinals. 
Most teams take a considerable break in the offseason be-
fore they start playing a few spring games and look to get back into form. 
But for the Gators, they have a game on Saturday against 
a team from one of the most respected soccer organizations in the world. 
Florida’s offseason is over.The Gators will host FC Bayern Munich’s women’s team 
on Saturday at James G. Pressly Stadium, making this the first 
time its women’s team travels to the United States. 
FC Bayern is a professional team based in Munich, Germa-
ny, and is a member of the German league Bundesliga. 
The Florida players and coaches are excited for the oppor-
tunity to face one of the world’s best women’s teams and they 
aren’t taking this match lightly. As assistant coach Alan Kirkup said, 
this game will be about each team proving 
something to its opponent. 
This won’t be just a lackadaisical spring 
game.
“They know that American soccer is 
quite good and I think they’re here to prob-ably prove that German soccer is better than 
ours,” Kirkup said, “and we hope to give 
them at least a test.”
The players realize that this isn’t a typical game for them; 
FC Bayern isn’t a collegiate team, it’s a professional organiza-tion. 
But the Gators are looking forward to the challenge and to 
see how well they can match up with the German side.
Florida sophomore forward Savannah Jordan has plenty of 
experience playing internationally in her time spent competing with the U-20 U.S. National Team. 
She said the organization and physicality were things that 
she remembers specifically from when she played the German 
national team, so she expects similar things from FC Bayern.“(Coach Becky Burleigh) was just telling us they’re second 
in their league, which is great competition for us,” Jordan said. “But I think that we always go out and give it our all, no matter 
when we’re playing or who we’re playing so, I mean, we go for the win.”
Junior defender Claire Falknor said she is happy to have 
spring games scheduled this early because she’d rather be 
playing against other teams than just working out and scrim-
maging each other.
“Maybe in the spring, I’m more set back because it’s a time 
to learn and be OK to make mistakes and learn from them,” 
Falknor said, “but I’m a naturally competitive person, so I take 
(this game) pretty seriously.”
Florida hopes to give FC Bayern all it can handle on Satur-
day and prove that it’s not only among the highest ranks of collegiate competition, but that it can hold its own against any-
body, even world-renowned professionals.
“It’s pretty early in our spring schedule, so we’re not 
prepped where we want to be,” Kirkup said. “But if you’re not 
prepared to play a team like this, then you really shouldn’t be 
at Florida.”  UF embracing opportunity to play against FC Bayern
Jordan
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
Freshman forward Devin Rob-
inson awoke Florida’s hometown 
crowd with an alley-oop off an 
assist from Kasey Hill, which fol-lowed a steal in the paint from Mi-chael Frazier II. 
Robinson’s play cut LSU’s lead 
to just two points with 8:32 left in 
the first half. 
From that point on, the game 
could have been UF’s for the taking.
But neither Robinson as an indi-vidual nor the Gators as a team rose 
to the occasion.
Instead, the Tigers did. 
LSU (14-4, 3-2 Southeastern 
Conference) defeated Florida (10-
8, 3-2 SEC) 79-61 in the O’Connell 
Center on Tuesday night.The loss snapped Florida’s 20-
game home SEC win streak, dating back to March 4, 2012.
By the end of the first half, the 
Gators were behind in most aspects, 
including the 37-32 game score. 
But an even greater discrepancy 
occurred from beyond the arc.
Florida failed to convert any of 
its five three-point shots in the first 
half, while LSU went five-of-eight 
from downtown. 
“We didn’t shoot the ball partic-
ularly well from behind the three-
point line in the game,” coach Billy 
Donovan said. 
“I was happy we were only 
down by five.” 
The Gators returned to the court 
in the second half with some an-swers. 
In the opening minutes, Fra-
zier knocked down a three-point 
shot, ending Florida’s drought and breaking the Gators’ all-time school 
record with 40 consecutive games 
in which he’s made at least one 
three-point shot.
Redshirt junior forwards Alex 
Murphy and Dorian Finney-Smith led Florida with 10 points each off the bench.
But the duo was no match for 
LSU sophomore forwards Jarell Martin and Jordan Mickey who scored 22 and 14 points, respec-tively. LSU had four players score in double figures on Tuesday.“It was a game where we were 
going to have to try to provide help because I just didn’t think that we could guard Mickey and Martin one-on-one by themselves,” Dono-
van said.
After scoring six points in nine 
minutes in the first half, Robinson 
went scoreless in the six minutes he played in the second half. 
With just over seven minutes left 
in the game, the Gators got a surge 
of energy from each other and the 
crowd as Florida went on a seven-point run that consisted of two lay-ups and a three-point shot that cut 
LSU’s lead to 10 points.
 The spark was not enough to ig-
nite a comeback, however.
Florida trailed the entirety of the 
second half and was never able to break through.
“We didn’t come out with ener-
gy,” said Finney-Smith, who began 
the game on the bench for the first time since UF’s loss to Georgetown 
on Nov. 26. 
“We didn’t fight.”
Added Donovan: “(There was) 
not enough competitiveness, not enough fight. Definitely not enough at all.”
Both the team and Donovan 
know there’s a lot of work to be done to recover from the 18-point loss.
“If we don’t come together and 
we don’t figure this out,” Murphy said, “we’re going to keep getting embarrassed.”Florida falls to LSU at home, loses second straight SEC game
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Jan. 10 in the O’Connell Center. Florida dropped its first SEC home game on Tuesday, losing 79-61 to LSU. 
Finney-Smith: ‘We didn’t come out with energy’16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015
