VOLUME 109 ISSUE 110 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Adobe pilot ends, now available at lower fee
It costs $35 per year, pg. 3.  
Check out more election numbers online
Visit alligator.org/sgelections2015 The Expendables returning to GNV, 
performing at High Dive 
They’re performing Sunday night, pg. 7. 
Read the last 
Trophy Hunting 
from Avenue writer 
Alyssa Holcomb 
about the Academy 
Awards, 
page 10.
66/45
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14
STAFF REPORT
The battle of the chants end-
ed in cheers and tears as Access 
Party claimed victory at the end of a nail-biting campaign season Wednesday night. 
Despite Swamp Party’s estab-
lished political presence, Access Party took the executive ticket with 6,316 votes compared with Swamp’s 6,192. For the ﬁ  rst time since 1999, a minority political party took the executive ticket, ac-cording to Alligator archives. The defeat nearly mirrors that 
of the 1999 Spring election, which saw the success of newly formed Progress Party against the strong-
ly backed majority Vision Party. 
Students broke records this 
election, casting a historic high 
of 12,742 ballots, said Hans Rojas, UF Supervisor of Elections. Spring 2014 brought in 10,048 votes. 
Access’ Joselin Padron-Ra-
sines and Kevin Doan took 50.11 percent of ballots cast, beating 
Swamp’s Joseph Michaels and Tia 
Smart by 124 votes. Nicholas Carre, Access trea-
surer-elect, earned 6,482 votes — 51.61 percent — receiving 484 more votes than Swamp’s candi-
date, Hadar Arazi. She received 
5,998 votes.   
Rojas announced the results 
at 10:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union breezeway. Along with the execu-tive ticket, Access took 27 Senate seats and Swamp won 23. 
Access ﬁ  lled all six seats in the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences, UF’s largest college. The 
College of Engineering’s four seats will also be represented by Access. 
The Sophomore seat was split, 
with four seats for Swamp and 
two for Access. The College of 
Agriculture and Life Sciences has one Swamp seat and two Access seats. The College of Journalism is split, with each party holding one seat. 
Both parties submitted com-
plaints, with six from Access and six from Swamp. There will be a 
meeting at the UF Levin College 
of Law today regarding the com-plaints.
The tight race was reminiscent 
of Spring 2012, when the Unite Party got 50.27 percent of the ex-ecutive ticket vote and beat the 124 VOTES MAKE HISTORY  
Record turnout, party upset, ﬁ  rst Latina presidentAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
President-elect Joselin Padron-
Rasines (center) hugs Matthew Hoeck, Access Party president, after the announcement that Access won the Student Govern-ment presidential ticket. Nicho-las Carre (right), SG treasurer-elect, joined in their celebration.
SEE ELECTION, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 110 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
82/61CLOUDY
77/61RAIN
64/57PARTLY 
CLOUDY
66/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
66/45
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 8 p.m. For more information 
and to register, go to gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, the 
Women’s Student Association 
and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are excited to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video con-
test. Help educate UF on how 
to intervene to end sexual violence. What better way to teach than by doing? So show 
us your best bystander sce-
narios in a public service an-nouncement video format, and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. 
Deadline for submission is 
March 1. For official rules and eligibility, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Ask a Scientist: Geology
Science is all around you! Take advantage of this op-portunity to talk one-on-one 
with researchers from UF’s 
Department of Geological Sciences on March 8 from 1 to 4 p.m. at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. Bring 
specimens and find answers during an afternoon of dis-covery and learning. For in-formation, call 352-273-2064.
Take Back the Night
The Office of Victim Services, in collaboration with STRIVE 
and other campus organiza-
tions, is looking for an artist to use his or her gifts toward making a creative stand against sexual violence. Take 
Back the Night is an annual 
event to “shatter the silence” of sexual violence. It will take place on April 1. They’d 
like to see a student help de-
velop a 3-D art piece that can be used in promotion of the event, as well as in the after-math as a visual reminder of 
how the Gator community 
takes a stand against sexual violence. If this project inter-ests you, please email victim 
advocate Annie Carper at an-
nekcarper@ufl.edu or send a Facebook message.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Midterms Relaxation Week at 
Library WestTake a break from studying, and 
join the Library Ambassadors 
for a relaxing activity at Library West. Pizza and fiction books will be given away today from 
5 to 6 p.m.on the second floor 
near the circulation desk.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and Roll
Hear history come to life today 
with a multimedia presenta-tion by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department 
entitled “Tampa Red and 
Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum, examines 
how the hokum blues of the 
late 1920s were the basis for well-known musical sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Gay Movie Night
This month’s movie is “Burning Blue.” They have been trained to meet danger head-on and ex-
ecute vital strategic maneuvers 
while flying at breath-taking speeds. But after a series of fatal accidents, a close-knit squadron 
of male Navy pilots begins to 
splinter and becomes the fo-cus of a criminal investigation. As a government agent digs to uncover the cause of the acci-
dents, two of the pilots engage 
in a secret, forbidden relation-ship. Their affair is exposed, and the squadron is engulfed 
by an incendiary scandal that 
will challenge each pilot’s no-tions of friendship, love, honor and courage. A $2 donation is requested to cover cost of 
snacks. It’s at 7:30 p.m. Friday 
at the Pride Community Center at 3131 NW 13th Street.
Public meeting for Save Our 
SuwanneeSave Our Suwannee is hosting a free public education presen-tation. Robert Knight will pres-
ent “Restoring the Suwannee 
— A Hopeful Future.” He will talk about the current scientific understanding of impairments, 
their causes and effects, and 
will lay out a comprehensive plan for restoration and protec-tion. It will be at 7 p.m. Friday in the Great Outdoors Ballroom at 
65 N. Main St. in High Springs.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration closes Saturday for Yes Means Yes, an interdisci-
plinary, interactive, non-credit, five-week, student-facilitated seminar that encourages mean-ingful, engaging discussions on 
consent and sexuality. Make 
your campus safer, have din-ner on us and increase your sexual satisfaction! Meetings 
are Thursday evenings March 
12 through April 9 from 6:30 to sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
A story that ran Wednesday 
under the headline “Moving service to hire 60 students af-ter successful first year” inac-
curately stated in the headline 
the company was only a year old. 
Two of the columns that ran 
Wednesday on page 7 had 
swapped bylines. Amy Coker  wrote the column titled “Radical Brownies troop gives 
hope for the next generation.”  
Grace Hudgins wrote the col-
umn titled “Midterms and their stresses: Spring Break is almost here.”
The photo that ran Wednesday 
with the story titled “UF alum co-curates Ghana fashion ex-hibit now open at the Harn” was incorrectly credited. The photographer was Laura Escobar, who also wrote the story.
In a story that ran Wednesday 
under the headline “UF law students spending break vol-unteering,” it was incorrectly stated the mother mentioned had four children, and that the students were renovating a house. She has three chil-dren, and they are completely building the house. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
The free Adobe pilot period has 
ended, and a limited number of 
students can purchase a subscrip-tion today.
The program, called Adobe@
UFApps, works like the free pilot program offered since November, Patrick White, a UF Computing Help Desk end user support spe-cialist, wrote in an email. 
White said the program is ac-
cessible through apps.uﬂ  .edu and can be used anywhere with Inter-net access on just about any device, 
just like the pilot program. 
It costs $35 for the duration of 
the subscription period. It includes 
Adobe Creative Cloud software, including Adobe Photoshop CC, Adobe InDesign CC and Adobe Premiere Pro CC. 
White said the university ne-
gotiated a contract with Adobe to broaden access to its products. The contract included a limit of 3,000 subscriptions.
Interested students can go to 
the UF Computing Help Desk in the Hub to sign up, he said. This includes the 400 people who par-ticipated in the pilot. 
Tara Thomson, a UF advertis-
ing junior, said she took advantage of the Adobe pilot to create a news-letter for a design class.
“It came at a useful time,” the 
21-year-old said. “But I haven’t needed it since.”
Jameson Johnston, the UF In-
formation Technology manager, said there was great feedback.
“It gave us the information 
needed to make the program suc-cessful,” he said. Adobe pilot ends, now 
available at lower fee
EMILY COCHRANE 
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
University Police is investigating 
the death of a UF student that oc-
curred in Mallory Hall on Wednes-day morning.
Shortly after 11 a.m., University Police were called to a single room on the second ﬂ  oor of the building. University Police spokesman Maj. Brad Barber conﬁ  rmed the death of the student, who police hadn’t named as of press time. Barber said no foul play is suspected. Police are still investigating the incident.Dave Kratzer, vice president for 
student affairs, sent an email to UF housing residents informing them of the student’s death. According to the email, there was no crime, and no other students were endangered.
Residents on the ﬂ  oor said main-
tenance staffers were visiting rooms on the ﬂ  oor, knocking on doors to check and change air conditioning vents. Maintenance remained in front of one door, knocking repeat-edly before entering, they said. Po-lice were called soon after.
Residents said two rooms on the 
ﬂ  oor were blocked off by tape while police investigated. University per-sonnel, police and medical inves-tigators remained at the dorm for more than an hour speaking with residents and residence hall staff.
As of press time, no ofﬁ  cial re-
port had been released with details about the incident.
University Police investigating death of student on campusLaura Palomino / Alligator
Rules of Engagement
Tom Shroder, former editor of The Washington Post and author of “Acid Test: LSD, Ecstasy and the Power to Heal,” explains the rules of the frank Adventure Hunt in The Wooly on Wednesday.
Students Party by just 114 votes. 
“Si se puede,” the crowd of Ac-
cess members chanted. “Yes we 
can,” as the Spanish phrase is of-ten translated to English.
And they did.“I can’t believe this happened,” 
Padron-Rasines said through sobs. “I don’t think words can de-scribe this feeling.”
UF’s first Latina Student Body 
president hugged her running mates. Makeup ran down her face.“All of us are honored,” she 
said.  
Access’ campaign manager Mi-
chael Christ said he never thought 
he’d see a minority political party 
win in his time at UF.  
“Now the real work begins,” 
he said.
In a huddle, Swamp members 
cried and hugged, but they took the news in stride.   
Swamp spokesman and Presi-
dent Ricky Salabarria said he is 
proud of the campaign, from the 
candidates to the volunteers to the supporters, and he is looking for-ward to their continued service to students. 
He said he knows the winning 
candidates will represent stu-
dents to the best of their abilities. 
Business will resume as planned. 
“Tonight we are the winners, 
and we wear the white hats,” Sal-abarria said. “We fought the good fight. We stayed true to our mes-sage.”
Out of a huddle of Swamp sup-
porters came words of consola-
tion.
“The Fall campaign starts to-
morrow.”CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
By 6:15 a.m. Wednesday morn-
ing, Natasha Pereira was already in 
line.
The 19-year-old UF psychol-
ogy sophomore camped out in the hopes of scoring backstage passes to James Franco’s visit to the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. 
Though not a huge fan herself, 
the event fell on Pereira’s sister’s 18th birthday, and she  has been a fan of Franco’s since the Spider-Man movies.
“He’s very dedicated in every-
thing he does,” said Natalia Pereira, Natasha’s sister. “He’s so passion-ate.”
During the Accent Speaker’s 
Bureau-sponsored talk with journal-ism professor Mike Foley, Franco touched on everything from the book he wrote based on his experi-ences as a teenager, “Palo Alto,” to his friendship with Seth Rogen.
“He’s what you see in the mov-
ies, is what he is,” Franco said. “What can I say? He smokes a lot of weed.”He spoke about the controversy 
surrounding “The Interview” and the Sony computer hacks, which had him worried hackers would break into his bank account or per-sonal computers.
“It was a weird situation to be 
in,” Franco said. “There was nothing I could do but wait.”
The famously well-rounded 
Franco said he went back to school and began directing after acting in 
a string of movies he wasn’t happy 
with, such as “Flyboys,” caused him 
to sink into a sort of depression.
“I had what a lot of people want, 
but I was making movies that I hat-
ed,” he said. “You change from your 
mistakes. If things are going well, 
you don’t really change.”
Though no backstage passes 
were given out, the Pereira sisters 
did score front-row seats.
“It was a pretty exciting inter-
view,” Natalia said. “It gave some 
insight into him.”
The event had the O’Connell 
Center packed to the rafters, and it 
ended after Franco took the custom-
ary Gator Chomp selfie with the screaming crowd. 4, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Ricky Salabarria (center), Swamp Party president, joins the rest of Swamp after the announcement that Access Party won the Student Government executive ticket. Swamp won 23 Senate seats while Access won 27.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
James Franco reacts to a crowd at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Wednesday. In his talk, which was sponsored by the Accent Speaker’s Bureau, Franco discussed the 2014 Sony hack and his work.
CAMPUSFranco visits UF, talks Rogen, learning from past mistakes 
Swamp upset but looking ahead to Fall
ELECTION , from page 1
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer
afisher@alligator.org
The Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center’s proposed renova-tions will be postponed one year, but Spring commence-ment will remain in the Swamp.
The project was paused 
due to its aggressive sched-ule, rising costs and change in construction management, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said.
She said the previous 
management team’s short time frame called for the start of construction before the design was finalized.
The design plan was 60 
percent complete before the new team took over, Sikes said. 
It was estimated to cost 
$60 million, but a finalized budget and completion date won’t be determined until the design is complete. 
There should be a new 
plan in about six to eight weeks.
“It is a special building,” 
Sikes said. “It is important we do it right. We pushed pause temporarily.”
Sikes said Spring com-
mencement will remain as scheduled in the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. She said  the university didn’t want to inconvenience those who  already made plans and sent out invitations.O’Connell renovation
postponed one year 
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center will see 
the following improvements:
New chair-back seats
New high-definition video boards and 
sound system
Updated mechanical, electrical and      
plumbing systems
Renovated offices and locker rooms“It is important we 
do it right. We pushed 
pause temporarily.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College student senators 
voted against a resolution asking the 
college to diversify posters about sex-ual harassment and approved a club overflow request at Wednesday’s 
meeting.
At the meeting, senators discussed 
a resolution claiming the sexual ha-
rassment posters around campus are discriminatory toward men because they depict men as the perpetrators. The resolution asked the college to examine the posters and change them to ads not based on gender. 
Senators deliberated for more 
than an hour. Sen. Connor Levine said if a student feels uncomfortable, they should talk to Vice President of Student Affairs Naima Brown or As-sociate Vice President of Student Af-fairs Dan Rodkin instead of bringing it to Senate.
But Sen. Shannon Lewis said 
that if a student feels discriminated against, Senate should address the is-sue and help them. 
Senators voted against the resolu-
tion by a slim margin of 19-18, with three abstaining.
For nearly 50 minutes, senators 
discussed whether to approve a $1,830 request by the Santa Fe Global Society to send 19 members to a con-ference in April.
Club representative Daniel Col-
menares said the conference would benefit Santa Fe by providing its club members with valuable skills that will land them jobs later on.
Senators approved the request for 
the Leadership Team to review, and the request will be reviewed a second time at the next Senate meeting.SFC senators vote on 
harassment postersCAMPUS
 THE NEW SEMINAR IS JUNE 14 TO 19.
RALPHY LOPEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
High school students can begin their humani-
ties educations this summer at UF.
UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences will 
host “Humanities in the Sunshine State: Exploring 
Florida’s Past, Present and Future,” a week-long 
seminar for high school juniors and seniors to 
emphasize the importance of the humanities. The seminar will be held from June 14 to 19.
The program is partnering with the Center for 
Precollegiate Education and Training to engage students in humanities-rich activities to create a fun learning environment. It was initiated by the Florida Humanity Council, said Sophia Krzys Acord, associate director of the Center for Hu-
manities and the Public Sphere.
It costs $350 per student, and the application is 
currently available on the CPET website.
The program will be funded by the Florida Hu-
manities Council, UF’s Center for Humanities and 
the Public Sphere, and the Robert and Margaret Rothman Endowment, Acord said.
Melissa Clapp, a Library West instructor and 
outreach coordinator, said this may be part of her 
job, but she joined the team because it is new, fun 
and humanities-focused.  
“Anything I can do to promote the humanities, 
I will do it,” Clapp said.
Acord said the students, who will be living in 
Beaty Towers, will visit locations in north Florida that do cutting-edge research in the humanities as well as connect contemporary humanities affairs with local Florida issues.
Clapp said humanities issues can often be 
brushed aside, but they’re part of everyday life. She also said it’s important to reach the program’s age group, as that is when students begin to think about their futures.
Lori Taylor, a UF digital scholarship librarian, 
said she is excited to be a part of the program. Tay-lor will be helping students learn to use and un-derstand digital projects.
“This is what we do,” Taylor said. “The Uni-
versity of Florida libraries has one of the largest info networks in the state. It is a great opportunity for students to be able to work hands on with the materials.”UF summer program to teach 
humanities to high schoolersReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Access Party 
wins but work 
has just begun
We’ve finally come to the end of a long, hard-
fought campaign, defined by multiple episodes of political intrigue and the strongest resurgence 
of the opposition since 1999.
In contrast to last Fall’s election, where only one Senate 
seat could have feasibly gone to an opposition candidate, this one was competitive right up to the highest positions in 
Student Government. Tuesday night saw the highest voter 
turnout ever. For the first time in three years, UF hosted elections that could be considered fair and contested. 
The 2015 Student Government election results are in. 
Access Party has won.
We congratulate Access on its victory, and we’d like 
to thank every student who participated, campaigned or voted for either party. 
But our gratitude belongs to the voters, especially — 
y’all are the ones responsible for making this historic change.
 That this election received the turnout it did deserves 
its own recognition and pride.
An Access victory was the best chance the Student Body 
had of freeing itself from Swamp domination. We’re glad to see the Student Body finally mobilized and threw off the burden of one-party dictatorship. 
Access stands in a position with enormous potential. 
While we look forward to seeing the changes this will bring to SG, keep in mind this election wasn’t a one-time deal to determine the future of SG permanently. The re-sults of this election will be valid for a year, at most. Access may have succeeded in its electoral campaign, but the fight 
for its cause is just beginning. 
If Access is truly going to bring change to SG, the party 
needs to stay sharp. Winning the election is getting a foot 
in the door. What matters now is how Access holds up in 
the months and semesters to come.
It’s going to be difficult — Access doesn’t just have the 
business of running a government to worry about. We 
predict titanic resistance and opposition from sitting and newly elected Swamp senators and from their supporters 
and allies in the Student Body at large. 
Swamp Party has proven it will do anything within its 
means to hold its grip on power. It would be naïve to think 
anything different now that its preeminence has been tak-
en.  
Through all of the trials to come, we hope Access keeps 
true to the ideals that brought the party to victory. We urge 
Access to embody its standards of honesty, transparency and inclusiveness — standards SG has desperately needed.
198 TOTAL VOTES49% Swamp 
51% Access
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Who do 
you think will win the election?Today’s question: Do you approve of the election 
results?Local politics should not be underrated
Former House Speaker Tip O’Neill often said that “all politics is local.” This is an incredibly true statement, even in Alachua County. When a politician can tap into 
the needs and wants of his constituents, magic happens.
When a politician in Alachua County taps into the needs, 
hopes and wants of Alachua County residents, a bizarre sort 
of political theater happens.
This is what occurred during the Gainesville City Com-
mission candidate debate Feb. 16. Nine politicians vying for 
District One’s seat and an At-Large seat communicated their 
views on a host of issues, including Gainesville Regional Utilities, diversity in local government and a variety of eco-nomic-development projects.  
As with local political events, the unexpected and the un-
ruly should be anticipated. Of course there was the incoher-ent, random-guy-off-the-street candidate. The crowd got a little too involved in the clearly pandering responses, even Amen-ing a candidate after every sentence he uttered. The 
candidates also threw some serious shade at each other.
One truly unique aspect to local election theater is the 
unﬁ  ltered, unpolished, left-ﬁ  eld candidate. This debate put 
forth an extremely unﬁ  ltered one. In my humble opinion, this candidate, Lucas Jewell, was without a shadow of a doubt the most memorable feature of the evening.
Some of his lines on responsive politics: “More people 
voted for weed than Rick Scott, but Rick Scott is governor and we have no weed.”
On the policies of other candidates: “Y’all not an expert 
and I’m not an expert.”
When asked about a particular economic development 
issue: “Commissioners need to be honest, and I haven’t thought about this issue. “
On diversity in local government, he said there’s a lot of 
people we need to get rid of in local ofﬁ  ce, and we can ﬁ  ll their seats with diverse candidates.
This candidate’s responses seemed to be unrehearsed and 
improvised. They were clearly spoken from the gut and were intended to catch the audience by surprise. Despite the un-orthodox and mesmerizing power of his responses, I had to believe that he was answering each question with complete sincerity. At no point did I think this candidate, with all of his ec-centricities, was running for City Commission for selﬁ  sh purposes.
This is somewhat unique to lo-
cal politics. I’d like to believe that local politicians are pursuing of-ﬁ  ce for unselﬁ  sh reasons.
Let’s face it, running for the 
Gainesville City Commission will 
actually harm a candidate’s reputation more than help it. Most commissioners remain nameless in the minds of many, but when they are remembered, it’s probably not for a good reason. Taking a stance on a controversial issue like GRU 
could make your neighbor stop speaking to you. Remem-
ber, this is local politics. The only people voting for you — or against you — are the people who tend to be around you the most. They live in your community, shop at your grocery store and attend the same church as you.  
The pay is not that good. As referenced in the debate, the 
most promising county residents are offered better-paying government jobs in nearby cities and counties. A candidate will probably not get rich by occupying a commission spot.   
This is small-ball politics. Though it’s a small stage, the 
policies put forth by the commission really affect the lives of the residents, including students. National politics get the most attention in the media, but the issues affecting our ev-eryday lives are handled by local politicians. They handle our water, energy and commuting issues. The candidates de-bating truly believed in the issues they supported, especially when they had actually thought about the issue beforehand. The crowd even more so.
Local elections are politics in its purest form. They’re un-
rehearsed politics. They’re emotional. They’re honest. The responses to questions are given from the gut. The barriers to becoming a candidate are low. 
They’re purposeful, unscripted and raw. And of course, 
local politics are always important and entertaining.            
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column appears 
on Thursdays. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgAlligator cartoon from Spring 2004. The then-Access Party ran, and won, against majority party Innovate.theAvenue    Read the Avenue’s final Trophy Hunting column: 
Awards season is over and our awards show writer is 
graduating. Check out Alyssa’s final column, pg. 10. What are your plans for Spring Break? Tweet us @TheAlligator. Stuck in Gainesville for Spring Break?
Check out the Avenue’s guide to fun day trips not far from town, pg. 8-9.LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
The Expendables is returning 
to Gainesville this weekend.
The reggae-rock band will per-
form at the High Dive on Sunday 
night, located at 210 SW Second Ave., as part of their annual Win-ter Blackout Tour. Doors open at 
8 p.m. and the show will begin at 
8:30 p.m. with reggae-rock band Ballyhoo.
The Expendables bassist Ryan 
DeMars said he is ready to head 
down south for the welcoming 
weather and a plate of gator tail.
“We’re looking forward to 
being in Florida next week be-
cause we will finally be out of the 
snow,” DeMars said.
The band will celebrate the 
January release of their sixth al-bum, “Sand In The Sky.” They 
will perform new songs from the 
album as well as fan favorites such as “Bowl for Two,” “Sacri-fice” and “Down, Down, Down.”
The longtime friends formed 
the band in 1997, getting their start by playing for college crowds when they were fresh out of high school.
 Friends who went off to sev-
eral colleges around California would call the band and invite them to play at parties.
“All the students are always down to party,” DeMars said, re-ferring to the college crowd. “It makes for a good chance for us to have a good show.”
Jamming and playing parties 
turned into regular gigs at their local hometown venue.
“We would have all our 
friends come out, and next thing you know they’re buying tickets 
, and we were starting to sell out 
our local venue at a really young age,” DeMars said. “It just kind of sprung from there.”
Since then, the close-knit 
group has retained its original lineup.
DeMars attributes the band’s 
style to the surf-and-skate beach 
lifestyle of their hometown, San-
ta Cruz, California. Their music combines elements of rock, reg-gae and metal, and he said they have been strongly influenced by 
greats such as Bob Marley, Eric 
Clapton, Iron Maiden and The Police.
“The music is a product of our 
environment,” he said.
DeMars said performances de-
pend on the people in the crowd.
“We have so much fun in our 
live shows. We feed 100 percent 
off the audience,” DeMars said. 
“If the audience is going to be, like, lame and boring, we are go-ing to be like ‘ugh.’”
Tickets can be purchased at 
the door for $21 or  in advance for $18 at High Tides Tobacco and Gifts or on ticketweb.com.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Expendables, a reggae-punk band from Santa Cruz, California, will be returning to Gainesville 
to perform at the High Dive on Sunday night. 
The Expendables returning to GNV, performing at High Dive musicELLEN VILLAFUERTE
Avenue Writer
After being in the right place 
at the right time (aka the Alligator 
office), I was able to casually chat 
with Vince Vaughn (and six other student journalists) via Google Hangouts to talk about his upcom-
ing film, “Unfinished Business,” 
(March 6) a comedy also starring 
Dave Franco and Tom Wilkinson about a small-business owner and colleagues who take a business trip 
to Europe to close an important 
deal but not without some prob-
lems along the way. He also spoke about his involvement in films extending beyond acting, and he 
even dropped some knowledge for 
those who are unsure about what 
they want to do with their lives.You have a lot of com-
edy films under your belt. What makes “Unfinished Business” different from those films and what at-tracted you to the role of a small-business owner?
Recently I found myself 
in some more kind of PG-13 mov-ies. What I like about this was that they were going to deal with this with adult tone, language and situ-ation. For me, the concept of guys going on a business trip, the relat-ability of the family and the inter-play of the guys seemed exciting.
I know you’ve written and pro-
duced films, and even starred in those films. What’s it like playing those different roles?
It’s really case by case. Like the 
movie “Made,” I was always con-tributing. It was really nice to care about something. “The Break-Up” was my idea and I wrote it with two other writers — that was a story I wanted to tell that I thought, “We’ve never seen that.” I thought 
it was interesting to tell it in a co-medic way at first where the char-acters don’t end up together but grow from that experience. So I think if you’re excited about what you’re working on, the amount of work doesn’t matter.
“Unfinished Business” is an 
original script like many of your other films. How do you feel about the increasing dominance of remakes and sequels in Holly-
wood versus these original films?
Well I’ve been a part of both. I like being a part of an original 
idea; there’s something that’s ex-citing about it. I do understand when someone is moved by some-thing or excited by something and they almost want to homage it or they have an interpretation of it. It feels like nowadays, in the mar-ketplace, there is a sense that you have to have a big IP or kind of a franchise in order to cut through in the movie theaters.
As you get older, do you think 
you will eventually veer away from the underdog comedy role?
I’m excited to be mixing stuff 
up. For me, I think the best thing is to do different stuff. I like to do different things and split my focus.
You said you’ve known what 
you wanted to do from a young 
age. What advice would you give someone in college who doesn’t 
have any idea what they want to do?
That it’s OK. Don’t let other 
people’s wants or results dictate 
your process because the main 
thing that matters is that you land on something you feel good about. 
You don’t have to commit to some-
thing today and then follow that 
choice 15 years later. You’re al-
ways going to be changing, your 
goals are going to change, your in-
terests are going to change, and be 
easy on yourself with that. If you 
make a commitment to do some-
thing, try your hardest. Success 
is knowing you did the best you 
could at something. Get engaged, 
read about stuff, be involved in 
what’s going on around you, form 
your own opinions and be willing 
to hear other people’s opinions. 
You have to honor whatever your 
calling is.
Vince Vaughn talks about acting, ‘Unfinished Business’ 
His latest film premieres in theaters March 6 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
UFGhosts & Gravestones tour
Open 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily
Go on a lantern-lit walking tour, 
crawl through haunted pubs to lift 
your “spirits, ” ride the trolley of the 
doomed to historic sites and hop 
aboard a ghost ship haunted by those 
who never made it back from sea.
167 San Marco Ave.
St. Augustine, Florida
One hour and 45 minutes away
Price: ranges from $12.98 to $26.78Gatorland
Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily
Visit some gators at the Alligator 
Capital of the World. Enjoy a natural, alligator-breeding marsh from a view-
ing tower and zip line.
14501 S. Orange Blossom Trail
Orlando, Florida
About two hours away
Price: $27 for adults, $19 for kidsGiraffe Ranch
Two tours, one at 11 a.m. and one at 2 p.m.
Ride off on camel-back expeditions, jour-
ney on customized vehicle safaris, feed le-
murs and take behind-the-scenes tours of 
a working farm and wildlife preserve.
38650 Mickler Road
Dade City, Florida
One hour and 30 minutes away
Price: varies by activityChocolate Kingdom Factory 
Adventure T our
Open 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily
An interactive journey that explains the creation of chocolate from cocoa bean to distribution, in-cluding a Chocolate Museum and a look at fully functional, old-world machinery. For an additional cost, visitors can make their own chocolate bar.
2858 Florida Plaza Blvd.
Kissimmee, Florida
About 2 hours away
Price: $16.95 for adults, $12.95 for kidsSpring Break Day Trips
NATALIE CALVO
Avenue WriterALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
In the season-long trek from 
movie screens to center stage, all of 
the surprises, snubs and shenani-gans of the 2015 awards season ar-rived at the pinnacle of the Holly-
wood trophy hunt — the Academy 
Awards. The most prestigious cer-emony in Hollywood, hosted this year by Neil Patrick Harris, had no shortage of the aforementioned traits for this Avenue writer to write her last Trophy Hunting column.
Kicking the show off with typi-
cal Harris flair, the former Tony 
Awards host put his musical talent 
to good use with a glitzy, glamour-filled affair of incredible graphics and guest appearances by Anna Kendrick, Jack Black and a number of dancing Stormtroopers.
Harris was quite punny through-
out the evening, bringing sass and several “bah-dum-tiss” moments 
throughout the verging-on-four-
hours-long ordeal, but the running gag of his awards-show-predictions box fell flat as its overuse wore thin throughout the evening. His open-ing monologue, however, noted the sound engineers, the makeup “mas-ters” and the audience itself, ex-panding the elite ceremony to more 
than just the actors and directors in 
the limelight.
Many of the evening’s big win-
ners were no surprises, including “Whiplash” and “Boyhood” stars J.K. Simmons and Patricia Arquette winning Best Supporting Actor and Actress, respectively. A pleas-ant surprise was Arquette’s impas-
sioned acceptance speech advocat-
ing wage equality for women, which prompted Meryl Streep to shout out her support.
Several performances stood out 
throughout the night, including two from the Best Original Song category. On the sillier side, The Lonely Island and Tegan and Sara brought out a barrage of fun with 
“Everything Is Awesome” from (the 
snubbed) “The Lego Movie.” Danc-ers even distributed Lego Oscars to audience members, including Channing Tatum, Emma Stone and Oprah Winfrey.
“Glory,” performed by Common 
and John Legend from the movie “Selma,” brought the crowd to their 
feet and to tears. The performance, 
covered in a set resembling the Ed-mund Pettus Bridge, which Martin Luther King Jr. led a historic march to, was truly chill-inducing.
But the most outstanding num-
ber of the night went to Lady Gaga’s tribute to “The Sound of Music,” which is celebrating its 50th an-
niversary this year. The medley of 
tunes from the musical showcased a more classic side to her already impressive vocal range. Add in an appearance by the film’s star, Julie Andrews, and you’ve got an Oscar moment for the books.
In awkward Oscar moments, 
surprise guest Idina Menzel (aka 
Adele Dazeem) exacted her revenge 
on name-flub master John Travolta by giving him his own new moni-ker: Glom Gazingo. Travolta/Gaz-ingo then proceeded to creepily ca-ress Menzel/Dazeem’s face in what was easily the night’s most uncom-fortable scenario.
Other notable winners included 
“Big Hero 6” for Best Animated Fea-ture Film, “Birdman”’s Alejandro González Iñárritu for Best Director and “The Imitation Game” scribe Graham Moore for Best Adapted Screenplay. Moore’s acceptance speech was the most moving of the night, with the writer urging those who feel they don’t belong to “Stay weird. Stay different, and then when it’s your turn, and you are 
standing on this stage, please pass 
the same message to the next person who comes along.”The night ended with the three 
biggest awards going to three of the year’s biggest frontrunners. A sweetly grateful Eddie Redmayne humbly accepted his Best Actor Os-car for “The Theory of Everything,” and a poised Julianne Moore collect-
ed her first Best Actress statue for 
her role in “Still Alice.” Besting the likes of “Boyhood” and “The Grand Budapest Hotel,” “Birdman” took home the night’s biggest honor of Best Picture. I thought “Boyhood” and its 12-years-of-filming platform had the last one in the bag. It was a nice surprise to see Iñárritu, Michael Keaton and company take home the 
trophy.    
Read the full version of this story 
online.
10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
AP Photo
Host Neil Patrick Harris speaks at the Oscars on Sunday at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles.
Trophy hunting: Academy Awards showcase year’s best moviesOscars
KELSI AND KERI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
Stopping by Starbucks on the way home for a 
Frappuccino? Making reservations for Friday night 
at Leonardo’s 706? If so, you are not alone; count-less people seek hundreds of thousands of differ-ent restaurants every single day in the U.S. There 
are different restaurant environments, from small 
“mom and pops” to individually run businesses to fast-food chains to fine-dining, sit-down establish-ments. Restaurants face many challenges to draw diners in and work to enhance the eating-out expe-rience by creating a specific ambience.
Elements such as music, scent, objects of decor 
and lighting summarize the mood we expect. Col-ors also contribute to the atmosphere and influence 
our behavior. Have you ever noticed that fast-food 
places are decorated with vivid reds and oranges? Market researchers have found that these colors in-cite hunger and encourage diners to leave quickly, which is exactly what fast-food companies want.
In contrast, bistros and fine-dining restaurants 
arouse a sense of romance with dark interiors, can-dlelight, white tablecloths and wine bottles. Indirect and LED lighting make food and people look bet-
ter. Natural wood, softer neutral colors and plush 
chairs give even more concrete suggestions of luxu-ry and good taste.
Music makes a difference, too. A re-
cent trend is for restaurants to “audio brand” or have customized music. Chipotle asked Chris Golub to create a specific playlist for all their stores. Golub considered the acoustics — hard sur-faces like windows, metal and wood that make the 
sound bounce — the time of day and the volume 
levels of the music. A 2012 Cornell University study confirmed the importance of music affecting the en-joyment of food. The study found soft music and a more formal ambience made customers think the food at Hardee’s restaurant was tastier.
The number of patrons also impact our percep-
tions and image of a restaurant. A study conducted among Hong Kong restaurant patrons found that 
consumers perceived a very crowded restaurant 
more positively than a quiet one. Consumers asso-ciated crowdedness with high food quality, a good reputation and low prices.
The future of dining revolves around restau-
rants incorporating technology to create better consumer experiences. Ordering from your phone, sharing reviews of dishes, tablets on tables and di-rect feedback to managers may initially be appeal-
ing; however, they may undermine the soul of the 
dining experience. They are distractions from what matters — your meal, the company you’re sharing it with and the experience that brings you all to-gether. Restaurants are one of the few opportunities where you can sit down, be taken care of and enjoy your meal with others. Hopefully, future technol-ogy will not cause restaurants to abandon its core principle of hospitality. Dining out: more than just food
NICOLETTE HOFFMAN
Avenue Writer
Matheson Museum visitors will 
be exploring music history with a Yale musicologist tonight.
James Hepokoski, the chair of the 
Yale University Music Department, 
will be hosting “Tampa Red and Ho-
kum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll” from 6 to 8 p.m. Admission for this event is free and is sponsored by the Yale Club of Gainesville.
This event is the first time in two 
years that there has been a presen-tation by an Ivy League professor, said Stephanie Pastore, the market-
ing and public relations museum 
technician for the Matheson History Museum.
“James Hepokoski will trace the 
evolution of blues to rock and roll,” Pastore said. “His lecture examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for the musi-cal sensations of the 1950s as ‘Rock 
Around the Clock,’ ‘Jailhouse Rock,’ 
‘Rockin’ Robin’ and more.”This tour through Florida’s mu-
sic history will be presented in con-junction with the museum’s current exhibition called “Florida’s Got the Blues.”
The exhibition opened Feb. 9 and 
ends April 30, and it showcases mu-sicians who pioneered blues music during the early 20th century.
In this exhibition, viewers can 
explore the stories of many no-table blues artists who had roots in Florida, Pastore said. The exhibit allows viewers to stand face-to-face with Ray Charles, admire a costume 
worn by Bo Diddley and features 
musicians such as Tampa Red, Dia-mond Teeth Mary and Dickey Betts of the Allman Brothers.
Lindsey Tran, a UF music educa-
tion junior, said she’s gone to similar events in the past and plans to at-
tend the presentation.
“Learning about the study of 
music and how it has developed in 
our culture through James Hepo-koski’s eyes will be the most inter-esting part,” the 21-year-old said.Yale professor to speak 
at Matheson MuseumlocalBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
ClassifiedsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;
One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-
10-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    
2-27-15-7-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR/1BA CONDO FOR RENT.
W/D, fireplace, new appliances. Off 13th St., 
Creekside Villas. $600/mo. 352-870-0488    
3-9-15-5-2
2Bd/2BA Treehouse Village Condo
Tile flrs,w/d,new kitchen appliances.1.5 mi from UF. 2 pools, Secure 24 hr workoutfacility. Beautiful ground floor unit.$695/mo,$200 dep call 813-340-8982or cindy.choate@comcast.net     2-27-15-3-2
CUSTOM 2BDRM 1BA AVAIL NOW Within 1 1/2 mi UF & Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest cntrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $685/mo. Call 727-423-9463     2-27-15-2-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE APT (for re-let)
5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent includes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $725/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-13-15-10-3Sublease for Summer Term4-29-15 to 8-11-15. Individual lease,all-inclusive, furnished. $481/monthPavilion on 62nd Nicole- 305-742-7594     2-27-2-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-27-14-73-13 
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
babysitter - cooking skills, reliable,organised, references, flexible hours 
avgeorgieva@yahoo.com     2-27-15-5-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
Help Wanted
10-15 hrs per week in Alachua
Predominantly Farm/yard maintenance
$12/hr cash
3522583571      3-10-15-5-14
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Student wanted to assist elderly woman with 
meals. Part time on weekends. Five minute 
drive from campus. $15/hr. Call Rosemary 
703-638-0295 or hilleyjohn@yahoo.com    2-26-15-5-14BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring all positions. Experience manda -
tory. Earn top pay in a family work environ -
ment. Apply in person 5 SE 2nd Ave.    2-27-
15-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop Small
Small Business Craft Show
March 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pm
Cymply Fresh/Cymple Room
5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Bryan Shelton and the UF 
men’s tennis team opens conference play today against Georgia. Read the story on page 15. Women’s tennis player honored
Sophomore Belinda Woolcock was named the Southeastern Conference Player of the Week, the conference announced Wednesday. Florida heads to Alabama for ﬁ  nal road contest
The Florida Gators women’s basketball team takes on Alabama tonight at 7 in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Three of Florida’s four Southeastern Conference victories have come on the road this season.  FRESHMAN ALESHIA OCASIO PITCHED THE COMPLETE-GAME WIN.
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @Pinakk12
 Aleshia Ocasio may be a fresh-
man, but she has no problem pitch-
ing against ranked teams.
Ocasio, who beat No. 8 Michigan 
on Feb. 7 by tossing a complete-
game victory, went the distance 
once again as No. 1 Florida downed No. 17 UCF 2-1 Wednesday night at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Florida is now a perfect 17-0 to 
start the season.
In her fourth start of the season, 
Ocasio tossed all seven innings, giv-ing up one run while striking out 
eight and giving up three hits as she 
improved to 5-0 on the season.
“If she can give up one run ev-
ery time she goes out and pitches, we got a good chance to win, so I’m gonna give her a lot of credit,” coach Tim Walton said. “She’s really tal-ented.”
The Gators threatened early in 
the bottom of the ﬁ  rst inning after UCF pitcher Shelby Turnier issued two hit-by-pitches and a walk to load the bases. But with two outs, freshman Nicole DeWitt struck out swinging to end the threat.
Florida scored its ﬁ  rst run after 
junior Kirsti Merritt lined a double to lead off the bottom of the third 
inning and later scored from third 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida’s 4-1 win against Illinois State on Saturday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. In UF’s 2-1 win against 
UCF on Wednesday, Ocasio earned her ﬁ  fth win of the season, giving up just one earned run while striking out eight batters in seven innings.
Florida softball wins close midweek against UCF
Tuesday was supposed to be the dream night for the Florida men’s 
basketball team.
It was going to be the night 
the Gators got another win after dropping ﬁ  ve of their last six, relishing in the ﬁ  nal score after 40 minutes worth of playing on the court.
And it should have been 
the night Billy Donovan won his 500th career game, becom-ing the second-youngest head coach in Division I history to accomplish the milestone.But that dream quickly 
turned into a nightmare after the Gators lost yet again, this time on the road to a Missouri Tigers team that had just one Billy D might not 
reach 500 this seasonAIR JORDAN
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
While the University of Miami 
made a big splash jumping from 
Nike to Adidas, the University of 
Florida barely made a ripple in re-
upping with the apparel giant that 
has outﬁ  tted it since 1999.
In mid-January, the Portland 
Business Journal ﬁ  rst reported Flor-ida had quietly extended its appar-
el deal with Nike to April 1, 2024. It 
was originally set to expire in 2017.
According to a contract ﬁ  rst ob-
tained by the PBJ via public records 
request, Florida is set to receive $3.1 
million in apparel during the ﬁ  rst year of the new agreement starting 
July 1, 2014. 
The amount will increase to $3.5 million by the ﬁ  nal year of the agreement, 
increasing by $100,000 every two years.
Athletics director Jeremy Foley 
signed the agreement on Sept. 8.
Florida does not receive a cash 
payment from Nike, but it does get $255,000 in merchandise for discre-
tionary use, typically to outﬁ  t em-
ployees.
Florida’s previous extension 
with Nike set the school up to get 
between $2 million and $2.1 million 
in apparel over the ﬁ  nal four years 
of the deal through 2017. 
The new extension increases 
that amount by more than $1 mil-lion.
It’s a necessary play by Nike, 
which is receiving shots across the bow from Under Ar-mour and Adidas. 
While they may not 
have as many schools 
signed as Nike, they have shown 
they will pay top dollar to poach 
college sports’ heavy hitters.
Under Armour reportedly paid 
Notre Dame between $90-$100 mil-lion to outﬁ  t the Fighting Irish over 
10 years, and Adidas has a deal 
with Michigan valued at over $80 
million.
The details of Miami’s agree-
ment with Adidas were not dis-
closed but a source told the Associ-
ated Press it was “multiple times” what Miami was receiving from 
Nike.Florida, Nike quietly extend 
apparel agreement until 2024
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126UF Fo otballCAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
 For the UF men’s tennis team, 
spring break came early.
After a nearly three-week hia-
tus from action, No. 17 Florida 
(5-2) is warming up for its first Southeastern Conference match of the season against No. 7 Geor-gia (7-2) at 5:30 p.m.
The Gators started the break 
on a high note after defeating Florida State 4-2 in Tallahassee.
But despite not playing other 
teams during the three-week pause, it was far from a break in the eyes of the players and coach-es.
“We’ve been working on a 
little bit of everything,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “This break from matches have given us the opportunity to be healthy going into this match, so I feel like we’re 
at full strength and everybody is not only healthy but everyone is 
playing well.”
As the team heads into the 
midst of its SEC season, the com-petition will increase.
But the Gators feel prepared 
for the tests that are to come.
One factor the team cites as an 
advantage is Florida’s weather.
“We have been able to play 
outdoors more than other teams in the SEC,” sophomore Maxx 
Lipman said. “I know in Georgia 
its been snowing and the weather 
has been terrible in Athens so you know we’ve been indoors I think twice in the past two weeks 
and that’s huge for us.”
While the team as a whole 
has shown improvement over 
the course of the past couple weeks, junior Diego Hidalgo has 
displayed progress with his 6-0 
record while working his way 
onto the No. 1 court against the Bulldogs, moving the rest of the lineup down in rotation includ-
ing Lipman.
“No matter where I play I just 
kind of want to get a win for the 
team you know, put a point on the board to help us,” Lipman 
said. 
“I have a really tough match 
against a good player but I kind 
of want to just go out there and play my game and find the con-fidence.”
Success has not come easy to 
Florida this year, but the Gators continue to try and find a way to make the most out of each match.
Although Shelton said he is 
certain SEC teams will provide a test for his players, the third-year head coach said he is looking for-ward to seeing what the Gators are capable of.
“I feel like we’ve tried to place 
our guys under some pressure in practice but there’s no substitute for playing matches live against other teams,” Shelton said. 
“Hopefully Georgia is going 
to come in here, they have three quality double teams and that will be a test for our guys.”Southeastern Conference vic-tory all season and had lost 13 straight heading into the game.
And now, it looks like Bil-
ly D might have to wait until next season to get his 500th 
win.
The Tigers had absolute-
ly nothing going their way 
heading into the game at Miz-zou Arena.
Missouri was ranked in the 
bottom half of the SEC in ev-
ery statistical category except 
for three-pointers made.
But that didn’t stop the Ti-
gers from clawing their way 
into the win column for the 
first time since Jan. 8.
This Gators team isn’t go-
ing anywhere.
And with UF two games 
below .500 with three games left, Donovan is almost cer-
tain to post his first losing re-cord since his inaugural year as the UF team’s headman un-
less his team can put a run to-
gether in the SEC tournament.
Florida’s best chance at 
a win will come Saturday 
against Tennessee.
The Volunteers are in a 
similar situation as the Gators, as UT has dropped five of its last six.
But if any of Tennessee’s 
top scorers in Josh Richard-
son, Kevin Punter or Armani 
Moore goes off against UF’s defense, the Gators will be 
in deep trouble, especially 
with Florida’s top scorer in 
Michael Frazier, II (ankle) ex-
pected to be out and Dorian Finney-Smith’s suspension 
situation still up in the air.
And UF’s final two regular 
season opponents — Texas 
A&M and Kentucky — are no joke.
Texas A&M already bested 
Florida once this year — a 
63-62 toppling in College 
Station, Texas — in a game where Florida’s offense actu-ally found a rare outburst of 
success.
And Kentucky is, well, 
Kentucky.
Tuesday’s game against 
Missouri looked to be Flori-da’s last guaranteed chance to 
secure Billy Donovan’s 500th 
win.
But these Gators proved 
once again that a win is any-thing but guaranteed when 
they step on the court.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Maxx Lipman hits a two-handed backhand during Florida’s 
9-3 win against William & Mary on Jan. 10 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 62-61 loss to Ole Miss on Feb. 12 in the O’Connell Center.
TENNISGators open conference play today
COLUMN , from page 14UF likely to lose final 
regular-season games
UF scored its first run off illegal pitch
base on an illegal pitch from Turnier.
In the bottom of the fourth inning, Kelsey Stewart 
pushed the score to 2-0 with a two-out line-drive single 
to left field that scored Taylor Schwarz from second base.
Stewart finished the game 1-3 and recorded Florida’s 
only RBI. The junior struck out in her first two at-bats 
but said she changed her approach during her third at-
bat.
“I had a talk with coach and some of the other girls 
in the dugout and I made a better adjustment,” Stewart said.
The Knights had the Gators on their heels in the top of the sixth when Schwarz misplayed a ground ball at first base and UCF’s Linnea Goodman chopped a single up the middle with one out. After a sacrifice bunt that moved the runners over, Ocasio was able to escape the 
jam by enticing Jessica Ujvari to fly out to right field in 
foul territory.
Ocasio’s only blemish came on a solo home run to 
UCF catcher Kalyn Cenal in the top of the seventh in-ning that cut UF’s lead in half. But the St. Cloud native regrouped and retired the next two batters to seal the win.
“Home runs happen,” Ocasio said, “so it was my job 
to just deliver hope onto my team and stay calm and just 
get more outs and bounce back.”
Florida only managed three hits off Turnier, who 
came into the game 7-1 with a 0.70 ERA and 77 strike-
outs through 50 innings.
The Gators will head to San Diego to play a double-
header against No. 2 Oregon and Cal Poly San Luis Obispo on Friday as part of the San Diego Classic I. The two games will mark the beginning of UF’s 11 game stretch in California. SOFTBALL , from page 14
“Home runs happen so it was my job to 
just deliver hope onto my team and stay calm 
and just get more outs and bounce back”
Aleshia Ocasio
UF softball pitcher16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2015
