We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 124 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
UF women’s golf team wins ﬁ  rst 
tournament of the season
The Gators had four of its ﬁ  ve players ﬁ  nish 
in the top 25, pg 13
UF oﬀ  ers opportunity to participate in virtual 
career fair
It will feature 105 employers, pg 5.
Santa Fe Student Government needs your help
Read our editorial urging student involvement, pg 6.President Kent Fuchs: Communityservice as important as class
Read his second guest column of the 
semester, pg 7.
THEY ASKED FOR MORE 
PREEMINENCE MONEY.
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
UF students joined the Florida 
Legislature in a round of “We are 
the Boys” on Tuesday afternoon at a luncheon sponsored by the UF Alumni Association.
Florida Blue Key members and 
UF dignitaries — including President Kent Fuchs, alumni and administra-tion — gathered in the Capitol for the annual Gator Day, UF’s legislative advocacy day.
Dave Chauncey, Florida Blue Key 
president, said students go to Talla-hassee to celebrate and advocate for UF.
“We want them to know what we’re about, and why it’s important for the 
University of Florida 
to be successful,” the third-year UF law stu-dent said.
The students made the case for 
additional preeminence funding, ex-plaining how UF appears to be the frontier of innovation in the state and the nation.
More than 70 students were on the Senate ﬂ  oor and about 250 attended 
the evening event at 
the Florida Governor’s Mansion, said Caroline 
Harding, director of Gator Day.
She said the amount of student 
participation made an impact, and  Fuchs’ genuine interest in The Gator Nation fostered conﬁ  dence within the university.  
“It’s inspiring how powerful the University of Florida is in Florida and the U.S. as a whole,” Harding, a 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance senior, said.
Chauncey, 27, said UF is the 
state’s preeminent university, as it receives $800 million in research 
funding and will create new jobs in 
the technologically advancing world. He said meeting with legislatures went positively.
“It was great having their ears for 
a day,” he said.
Students speak at Florida Legislature for Gator Day
CAMPUS
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
T o the Beat of the Drums
West African dance group Agbedidi performs at the Hunger Beneﬁ  t, presented by S.T.E.A.M. Academy, at Emerson Alumni 
Hall on Tuesday. S.T.E.A.M. is a UF organization that combines STEM ﬁ  elds with art to address global issues.
By Cyanne Dunn and Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writers
cdunn@alligator.org
cvianna@alligator.org
A bill aiming to change the Gainesville 
Regional Utilities governing structure passed 
through its second Florida House subcom-mittee Tuesday.
However, concerns at the local level — namely from the Gainesville City Commis-sion and the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce — still linger.
Florida House Bill 1325 aims to transfer 
GRU authority from the City Commission to an independent, ﬁ  ve-member board appoint-ed by the Commission. If passed, the bill would be voted on through a referendum.
Sponsored by Rep. Keith Perry, the bill 
also outlines board policies, such as qualiﬁ  -cations for its members.
Perry ﬁ  led a similar bill last year, but it 
was not successful.
The idea is to have an independently run 
board that focuses solely on governing GRU, with the goal being to run the utility more efﬁ  ciently and reduce rates across the board, Perry said.
“We want to give them some autonomy,” GRU bill passes 2nd House subcommittee
SEE GRU,  PAGE 4CAMPUS
By Veronica Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health earned a new badge of excel-
lence.
The UF Health Cancer Center was one 
of four honored on Monday as the state’s 
inaugural group of Cancer Centers of Excel-lence, according to the Florida Department of Health.
The yearlong process was the collective 
effort of multiple UF hospitals, which came together to create a roughly 800-page report.
Jon Graham, UF Health Cancer Center’s 
deputy director of clinical administration, and Thomas George, director of the Gastro-intestinal Oncology Program, co-authored the application.
“There’s a ton of team players for the huge 
effort to pull together the application and provide the state the requested data to sup-port the application,” George said.
Graham said John Armstrong, the Florida 
surgeon general, will come to Gainesville to present the award.
The hospitals earned the excellence recog-
nition for providing the most patient-centered care in Florida.
“All four of those hospitals had to demon-
strate excellence in patient care, research and the third component is education,” Graham said.  
George said it is important for UF Health 
to be recognized as a Cancer Center of Excel-lence.
“The state set minimum requirements, 
and the joint committee made sure that the legislative requirements were met and took those and made them more robust,” George said.State awards 
UF Health for cancer centerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 124
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  61°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vote to Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest 
videos are up on UF’s Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education Facebook page and are awaiting your views! Check out all three and like your favor-
ites. Videos are awarded points 
in the Fan Favorites category of judging based on Facebook likes at facebook.com/STRIVEUF/vid-eos.
Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit 
submissionsAlachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center is seek-
ing art submissions for the 2015 Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit held April 24 to 30 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris 
Books in Gainesville. Survivors 
are encouraged to submit origi-nal artwork of all forms, includ-ing performance pieces. For more 
information, call 352-264-6763.
Mass Incarceration from the U.S. 
to Palestine
Join UF Students for Justice in 
Palestine with Dream Defenders 
leader Phillip Agnew in a discus-sion on racism and mass incar-ceration in both Palestine and 
the U.S. They will be looking at 
the ties between mass incarcera-tion in both places and the un-just targeting of people of color in the U.S. as well as the apart-
heid-like Israeli prison system 
that unjustly targets Palestinians in their own homeland. Doors open today at 6:30 p.m. at the UF 
Institute of Black Culture. Dinner 
will be served.
Free Tie-Dye
Today from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
on the Plaza of the Americas, 
STRIVE will help the first 100 visitors craft a tie-dye tank or T-shirt to promote the upcoming 
Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual Violence. Write your reason for marching, snap a pic, upload to social me-dia and then fold, band and dye. 
Wear your tie-dye to the march 
and rally April 1 from 6 to 9 p.m. on Norman Field to show your support for survivors and for 
ending sexual violence. You can 
be the generation to end sexual assault.
Pre-release screening of ‘Danny 
Collins’The Hippodrome Cinema and the New York Film Critics Series are partnering to present a pre-release screening of “Danny 
Collins” starring Al Pacino, 
Annette Bening, Christopher Plummer, Jennifer Garner and Bobby Cannavale. Arrive at 7 
p.m. for a preshow recorded in-
troduction by NYFCS Host Peter Travers. The film will begin at 7:30 p.m. Stick around after the screening for a captured (re-
corded) Q&A with Al Pacino. 
Tickets are $15 and include a complimentary bag of popcorn. The Hippodrome Cinema is lo-
cated inside the Hippodrome 
State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete listing of films and additional showtimes, please visit thehipp.org.
Inner Tube Water Polo tourna-
mentInner tube water polo is played 
just as its name suggests. 
Participants will play the tra-ditional sport of water polo while sitting in inner tubes to make this game fun for anyone. 
No experience is necessary. 
Participants must register by 5 p.m. Thursday on IMLeagues. The tournament will be held at 
the Florida Pool on Saturday.
Fifth annual GASA Glenti
The Greek American Student 
Association and the Department 
of Classics present the 
GASA Glenti. Join us in the Touchdown Terrace (in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium) from 8 to 11 
p.m. Friday. Listen to tradition-
al Greek music, taste authentic Greek cuisine and experience the culture of Greece. The event is free and open to the public.
Gay Movie Night — ‘Southern 
Baptist Sissies’ — Friday at 7:30 p.m.
“Southern Baptist Sissies” is 
a film of the theatrical experi-ence of writer and director Del Shores’ GLAAD Award-winning play about four gay boys grow-
ing up in the Southern Baptist 
church. It explores the conflict between the caustic rhetoric of dogmatic religion and the frag-
ile development of adolescent 
homosexuality while challeng-ing hypocrisy, exposing dam-age and offering hope. The intimate experience of theater 
on the film screen reveals the 
complicated emotions from all sides — the confused child, the struggling adolescent and the angry and damaged adult. Gay Movie Night is a free service of 
the Pride Community Center 
of North Central Florida, 3131 NW 13th St. A $2 donation is requested to help cover the cost 
of snacks.
Art and Science Panel Discussion
Join artists, scientists and cura-
tors at the Harn Museum of Art on Saturday at 2 p.m. as they 
engage with the shared history 
of science and art highlighted in the installation “Repurposing the Wunderkammer: Building a 
New Space for Science and Art” 
and welcome audience discus-
sion on future collaborations in these disciplines. For more information visit harn.ufl.edu/
exhibitions/artandtechnology 
or contact eking@harn.ufl.edu. 
The Harn Museum offers free admission and parking is free on weekends.
Take Back the Night
Recognize Sexual Assault Awareness Month by attending the annual Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence. Visit tabling organiza-tions to learn more about how they prevent and respond to sexual violence, make a poster of support to carry on the two-mile march around campus, en-joy soulful musical performanc-es, take in the wisdom of our two keynote survivor-speakers and share your own experience during open mic if you are a sur-vivor or support survivors. April 1 from 6 to 9 p.m. on Norman Field.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 By Chris Kennedy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Paint will soar across the sky this weekend as students 
of many races and ethnicities celebrate the traditional Hin-
du festival Holi.
Although the actual Holi festival took place March 6 in 
India, the UF Indian Student Association and UF Student Government will be hosting UF’s third annual staging of the festival at 11 a.m. Saturday on Hume Field.
Nazmi Ahmed, a 21-year-old 
sustainability studies junior who went to UF Holi last year, said her favorite part about Holi is playing with the colorful pow-
ders.
“It’s a sense of holiness, wholeness, and you feel really 
spiritual at the same time,” she said.
Dhara Patel, the president of the ISA, said UF Holi is 
important because it signifies the start of something fresh.
“I think Holi, in a sense, means it’s a brand new year, 
it’s a brand new season, it’s a brand new everything, so 
live positively,” the 21-year-old anthropology junior said.
Ahmed, who is Bangladeshi-American, said Holi brings 
her closer to Indian culture. She said it’s important for UF students to learn about other cultures through events such as Holi.
“I think everyone should go to Holi,” she said. “It’s a 
wonderful experience.”
Patel said there are new additions that seek to make 
the event more traditional and fun at the same time. There will be a bonfire at 7:30 p.m. Friday at Graham Oasis where students can write down something they want to 
overcome before throwing it into the fire as a way to sig-
nify the burning of the past.
“It basically takes out the old, brings in the new,” Patel 
said.
Patel said the first 500 students to show up Saturday will receive free T-shirts, and the first 1,000 will get free temporary tattoos. A DJ will be playing American and In-dian music, and there will be tubs of water. Patel sug-gested to bring water guns. Free Krishna Lunch and sodas will also be provided.
Patel said during Holi in India, people are covered in 
colored powder, which temporarily eliminates the coun-try’s caste system.
Alligator File Photo
In this photo from March 2014, Sarim Zaidi, a 24-year-old UF computer science graduate student, cheers at the 
festival on Flavet Field. Holi is observed to celebrate spring.
Holi to return to campus with a dash of color, free Krishna
CAMPUS4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
An ex-convict is being held in lieu of 
a $1 million bond after Gainesville Police 
arrested him Monday morning for report-edly snatching a Coach purse out of a woman’s car.
At about 8 a.m., a woman left her car 
door open outside of her house, located at 1204 NE 10th Ave., when she went inside to grab something, according to a police report. 
When she returned, Garnet Mintz, 
49, was inside her car holding her Coach purse, valued at $1,500, which had been left on the passenger seat. She told him to 
get out, and Mintz ran north on Northeast 
10th Avenue, taking the purse with him.The woman ran after him, and the 
two struggled for the purse, according to the report. Mintz threw the woman on the ground before he 
tripped over his bicycle and 
dropped the purse.
The woman picked up 
the purse and began to yell for help, according to the report.
A neighbor came out of his house 
as Mintz began to run away, according to the report. The neighbor biked after 
Mintz, chasing him across a soccer field 
as Mintz ran inside of his mobile home, located at 1600 NE 12th Ave. in Candle-light Mobile Park.
Police found Mintz hiding behind a TV 
inside his home, according to the report.  
Gainesville Police spokesman Officer Ben Tobias said many officers thought Mintz, who has served time in prison six times for crimes committed in Ala-
chua County, was still in 
jail for a series of car bur-
glaries.
“He’s just one of those 
individuals who can’t help but commit crime,” Tobias said.
Tobias said he believes Mintz, who 
also goes by Blue Mints or Peanut Mints, works alone.
“It looks like he’s just a one-man 
wrecking crew,” he said.
Police arrested Mintz on a charge of 
robbery by sudden snatching. 
Officers took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $1 million bond.Police: GNV man attempts to steal purse; bond $1 million
CRIME
Cresonia Hsieh / Alligator
The Musical Trio
Violinist Sungrai Sohn, pianist T ammy Lum and cellist Chungsun Kim perform the “Master’s T ouch” in the UF 
Music Building on Tuesday night.
Imprisoned: 6 times
Has been charged with...
Battery: 7 times
Burglary: 15 times
Theft: 5 times
Drugs: 11 times
Lewd/lascivious behavior: 3 
times
Traffic violations: 6 times
THE NEXT INTERVIEW IS TUESDAY.
By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
Final interviews have begun in the search for a new dean 
for the UF Levin College of Law.
The four final candidates are Mark Alexander, Michael 
Cahill, Laura Rosenbury and Charles Tabb. Alexander 
is from Seton Hall University, Cahill from Brooklyn Law 
School, Rosenbury from Washington University and Tabb 
from the University of Illinois.
The finalists will visit the law school, where they will 
present to the faculty. The visits are public, so students in-terested in evaluating the prospective deans can attend.
This is the second time a group of finalists has been cho-
sen in the search for a new dean.
Last Spring, three finalists were chosen before the search 
was called off. 
In an email sent at the time of the decision, then-Presi-
dent Bernie Machen said he and the provost “did not find one (candidate) ideally suited to lead the college,” accord-ing to Alligator archives.
The new dean will take over for interim dean George 
Dawson. Dawson did not apply for the position because he will be retiring, according to an email sent by Donna Win-chester, strategic communications director for UF.
On Tuesday, Cahill began the interviews. Alexander will 
interview next Tuesday. Tabb will be April 2, and Rosen-bury will interview April 6. All of the interviews will take place from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Chesterfield Smith Cer-emonial Room 180.Law school dean 
search down to 4
Perry said. “While appointed by the City Commission, they 
wouldn’t report back to them for approval on how to run the utility.”
The City Commission believes GRU governance is a local 
matter that should be handled locally, Commis-
sioner Lauren Poe said.
“I don’t believe that the state has the role to 
play in this,” Poe said.
Both the City Commission and Chamber op-
pose language in the bill outlining what board 
members can and can’t do.
“We (the Chamber) don’t believe that at this stage those 
determinations should be included as part of the bill,” said Ka-mal Latham, the Chamber’s vice president of public policy. “It 
should deal with the governance issue — separate from policy 
mandates and decisions.”
Perry said the bill’s policy language is based on other suc-
cessfully run governing models across the state.
The originally filed 52-page bill was met with concern from 
the community, which led Perry to file a revised version.The shorter version still contains policies that neither the 
Chamber nor the Commission agree with.
Latham and Poe both cited language in the bill that would 
hinder economic development incentives that GRU currently uses to retain and attract new businesses as a problem.
Poe will meet with Commissioner Randy Wells on Thurs-
day at 1 p.m. to continue a local discussion on the utility’s 
governance structure.
“Our belief at this point is that we should be 
allowed to do that ourselves, as opposed to hav-ing the state tell us what we should be doing,” 
Poe said.
The bill advanced through its second subcom-
mittee on the same day the City Commission in-
terviewed candidates in hopes of finding a new GRU general 
manager. The general manager has overall responsibility for the company, said GRU human resources director Cheryl Mc-Bride.
Commissioners interviewed five of the six candidates start-
ing at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday. Each interview ran about an hour 
long. Ed Bielarski, Rob McGarrah, Dwight Miller, Thor Wis-
hart and Phil Williams attended the first round of interviews. The sixth candidate, Charles Dickerson, will be interviewed Monday due to a scheduling conflict.
Before the interviews began, the candidates were given 
a tour of the city and the GRU facilities. They will also at-tend one-on-one interviews with each of the commissioners Wednesday, McBride said. Dickerson will have his one-on-one interviews on Monday, if scheduling allows.
The Commission will announce its decision at a meeting 
Thursday, April 2, said McBride. The new general manager will take over from interim general manager Kathy Viehe, who replaced Bob Hunzinger after his resignation. Viehe did not 
apply for the permanent position, McBride said. The salary for 
the position is open to negotiation.
Commissioner Craig Carter said while the governance de-
bate didn’t affect their interviewing process, all of the candi-dates are aware of Perry’s bill.
In the applicants, Carter said the commissioners are look-
ing for someone who can be sensitive to the needs of citizens while also managing such a large company.
“It’s a unique situation,” Carter said. “There are people 
that are out there that have to make the decision, ‘Do I get medicine, or do I get electricity?’”GRU,  from pg 1Commissioners interviewed candidates for GRU general manager
LOCALWEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 By Angela Dunn
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can register to donate bone 
marrow at a Gift of Life bone marrow match 
drive today from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Those who want to donate marrow can 
get the inside of their mouths swabbed on Turlington Plaza and at Library West. The swab places a person in the bone marrow registry, and that person can be matched with someone in need of bone marrow at any future time.
Dr. John R. Wingard, program director of 
the Bone Marrow Transplant Program at UF 
Health, said there is a need for 
more donors with an empha-
sis on nonwhite communities, 
and college students are a great population to pull from.
“The best way to find a do-
nor is within the family, but 
family size is shrinking,” Wingard said. 
Only about one in three people have a relative who is a suitable match, so donors 
have to be found outside the family for these patients. 
Alyssa Goldenhart, a 
20-year-old UF health science 
junior, is on the executive 
board of the Footprints Buddy and Support Program at the 
UF Health Shands Children’s 
Hospital, where a lot of the 
children she volunteers with are in need of bone marrow transplants. Goldenhart said becoming close with many of these kids is something that connected her to this cause.
“At our most successful drive, we 
swabbed over 1,000 people,” Goldenhart said. 
Since a drive last Fall, they have already 
had three matches to one 27-year-old man, one 25-year-old man and one 6-year-old 
boy.
The next drive will be at the St. Bal-
drick’s Foundation event from 2 to 6 p.m. 
Friday on Flavet Field.Gift of Life bone marrow match drive on campus today
By Chris Watkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new study suggests loving 
others goes hand-in-hand with 
loving the environment.
The study, conducted by Ste-
fan Pfattheicher, a post-doctoral 
student and lecturer at Ulm Uni-
versity in Germany, showed peo-ple who are more sympathetic to-
ward each other tend to be more 
sympathetic and compassionate toward nature.
While conducting the study 
published March 10, researchers showed participants photos of people suffering and then asked a series of questions to gauge the participants’ sympathy toward the environment and toward oth-ers.
“We become conscious of our 
own vulnerability and become connected through it,” said Ron Chandler, a sustainability psy-chologist and environmental sci-entist as well as the interim di-rector of sustainability studies at UF. “We then recognize our environment is vulnerable, then we become empathic toward our 
environment and toward nature.”
Pfattheicher and his colleagues 
assessed the participants’ com-
passionate tendencies for other 
humans, their pro-environmental values, their pro-environmental 
intentions and whether they have 
donated money to nature or envi-ronmental organizations.
Martha Monroe, a UF profes-
sor of environmental education and extension, said some people 
feel connected to themselves, 
some people feel connected to others and some people feel con-nected to nature.
“It depends on how people 
perceive others,” she said of the study. “It can extend to non-hu-man others.”Study: compassionate 
individuals connect better with nature
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Rousing Roundabout
Feather Mills (left), 19, and Olive Yu, 19, both Gainesville residents, cheer on passing vehicles from 
atop the roundabout at Southwest 12th Street and Southwest Second Avenue on Tuesday after-noon. Yu said they were just “trying to make people happy. ”
IT WILL FEATURE 105    
EMPLOYERS. 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can talk to employers 
and pass out their resumes in the 
comfort of their own homes next week through a virtual career fair.
UF will be one of 27 universities 
participating in the Southeastern Conference & Atlantic Coast Confer-ence Virtual Career Fair from April 1 to 3. The fair is open to all UF stu-dents and alumni.
This is the third year UF will 
participate in the fair, said Monica 
Moreno, assistant director for re-
cruitment services at the UF Career Resource Center.
The number of employers more 
than doubled this year from 50 to 105, Moreno said. Employers can register until the day of the event.
Last year, 100 students partici-pated, which was a decrease from the 220 students who par-ticipated two years ago. Moreno said she 
thinks this was be-
cause it wasn’t marketed enough.
She said she expects the number 
of participants to rise this year due to additional marketing efforts, schools and employers.
Virtual career fairs make it easier 
for students to participate, Moreno said.
“When you attend 
a virtual fair, you can attend while being on a bus, you can at-
tend on an iPad or at 
home,” Moreno said.
Virtual fairs also allow more em-
ployers to participate because com-
panies don’t have to send represen-tatives to a university, Moreno said.
“It’s cheaper to do a virtual fair 
where employers can be anywhere in the world,” Moreno said.
This is the first time the Peace 
Corps has recruited from many uni-versities in a virtual career fair, said Emily Whitfield, a regional recruiter 
for the Peace Corps.
Every year, the Peace Corps 
heavily recruits UF students. UF has 
the third-highest number of students in the program, Whitfield said.
“We always want the best stu-
dents for national service,” Whitfield said, “and UF has that.”
UF offers opportunity to participate in virtual career fair
By Brigitte Stambury
Alligator Contributing Writer
A conference Friday will demonstrate how 
to effectively utilize electronic evidence in the 
courtroom.
UF’s third annual Electronic Discovery Ref-
erence Model Electronic Discovery Conference will highlight how big data is shifting the liti-gation process and how it now involves social 
media, mobile devices and cloud storage. The 
event will be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Holland Hall 180: Chesterfield Smith Ceremonial Class-room in the UF Levin College of Law.
Craig Ball, a court-appointed special master 
— someone who testifies as an expert — on 
computer forensics and electronic discovery, 
is the keynote speaker.Ball said tangible evidence, such as hair 
and bloodstains, only makes up a small por-tion of evidence. Most evidence today is data, 
which can be recorded in smoke detectors, 
mobile phones, the cloud and, recently, our watches.
“The world is just teeming with electronic 
evidence, and you just have to learn how to see it and how to use it,” Ball said.
The event is free to UF students and faculty 
as well as judges, judicial staff and govern-ment employees. There will be expert panels discussing specialized software that filters information based on search terms and algo-rithms to ease the litigation process.
They will also demonstrate how to effec-
tively record and sort the data to create a com-pelling story.
William Hamilton, the executive director of 
the UF Law E-Discovery Project, said he lives on his phone since the shift to data utilization.
“Data tells what’s happening in a person’s 
life,” Hamilton said. “It’s really better than memory.”Conference to present on importance of data evidence LOCAL
“The world is just teeming with 
electronic evidence, and you just have 
to learn how to see it and how to use it.”
Craig Ball
keynote speakerCAMPUSThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSanta Fe Student 
Government needs 
your help
We’ve been devoting a lot of coverage to Ted Cruz, Iran, 
anti-homelessness ordinances and regressive legisla-tion concerning who can use what bathroom. Today, 
let’s direct our attention locally to Santa Fe College.
Recently, Santa Fe was declared the best commu-
nity college in the country, receiving $800,000 as a reward for its 
overall excellence as well as the institution’s high graduation and 
transfer rates.
It’s a prestigious honor and something Santa Fe and its stu-
dents should be extremely proud of. Lurking just behind this good 
news, though, is the cesspool of unprofessionalism and ineptitude that is the Santa Fe Student Government. Student Body elections 
end today. Even though the president and vice president ticket is 
unopposed, students should take this opportunity to start getting involved in SG. Because it needs an intervention. 
Incompetence and infighting in the Student Senate and other 
vital SG organs is making a mockery of the democratic process and ruining opportunities for Santa Fe students in the process. At the same time, a largely apathetic electorate is choosing not to vote, consigning Santa Fe to at least another term of shoddy government.
The state of Santa Fe SG is truly alarming. Last year, former 
Student Body President Michael Chartier and Student Senate Pres-ident Jeremy Pierce had a physical altercation that arose from an argument about whether Pierce had threatened senators. Santa Fe 
officials essentially placed a mutual restraining order on the two, 
and Chartier was later dismissed from his position after a disci-plinary hearing. This caused a rift among Santa Fe senators, who twice tried and failed to impeach Pierce. 
Part of the difficulty arose from SG’s endemic problem meeting 
quorum; throughout this semester, several important SG duties have been postponed because senators couldn’t be bothered to show up to — or stay at — meetings. They’ve deferred multiple budget requests from clubs and, because the SG treasurer played 
hooky, even the 2015-16 budget itself. The Senate floor has be-
come an arena where senators take each other on in petty rival-ries, threatening to gut funding for each other’s clubs, impeach each other’s allies, lower minimum Senate GPA requirements and everything else — except govern. The drama is so trashily over-
blown that SG has been compared to an “interesting season of 
‘Bad Girls Club,’” according to Alligator archives.
In this week’s elections, the candidates for president and vice 
president are running unopposed. The treasurer position has two  
candidates, but one failed to show up to a debate. Nobody is run-
ning for chief justice. Voters were enticed with free pizza, which worked until it was all eaten. If this were the government of a country, it’d be called a failed state. By now, some mustachioed guy in khaki fatigues and aviator sunglasses would have stepped 
in and declared himself President for Life. Luckily for us, Santa Fe 
doesn’t have a military filled with disaffected colonels — instead, it’s up to the students to take charge and hold their whacked-out SG accountable for what it does. So, Santa Fe students: Please go 
vote today. Or, hell, even join SG in some capacity. Your govern-
ment needs you.
A woman’s place is on the money — literally
If you were to open your wallet right now and pull out a 
genuine U.S. bill printed within the last century, there is a 100 percent chance there will be a man’s portrait on it. To put this a different way: There is a 100 percent chance that there will not be a woman on it. The last time a wom-
an’s portrait was printed on U.S. paper currency was in the late 1800s, when first lady Martha Washington, President George Washington’s wife, was on the 1886 and 1891 $1 silver certificate. It isn’t just paper currency where women have not been recognized, however. Only three women have been on U.S. coins: Susan B. Anthony and Sacagawea on $1 coins and Helen Keller on the back of the 2003 Alabama quarter. There has always been a need to recognize more ac-complished women, and now it might actually be addressed.
An organization called Women on 20s launched a cam-
paign early this year with the goal of replacing President An-drew Jackson’s portrait on the $20 bill with that of a woman. They chose to replace Jackson because of his support of the Indian Removal Act of 1830, which mandated the forced re-location of Native Americans, causing the deaths and suffer-ing of thousands — aka the Trail of Tears.
Women on 20s is currently conducting a poll on their 
website to determine the most popular woman to replace 
Jackson and take charge of the $20 bill. Then, as soon as 
they gather 100,000 signatures, the group plans to petition the White House for a response, which could lead to Presi-dent Barack Obama directing the secretary of the U.S. De-partment of the Treasury to initiate the change. Obama has already shown support for changing currency to recognize women, and Congress would not be involved in this process. For those reasons, there is a very real possibility that this could happen, and it’s about damn time.
Putting a woman on paper currency would be a major 
step toward gender equality. It would not only recognize an individual woman who contributed to our country, but it would also begin to show appreciation and admiration for all women. Women have led our country in every aspect from politics to civil rights movements. They are philanthropists, abolitionists, diplomats, intellectuals, politicians and scien-tists. Women like Margaret Sanger, who fought for legal birth control, and Clara Barton, the founder of the American Red Cross and a nurse on the front lines of the Civil War, have embodied admirable attributes while achieving courageous feats. Yet, 
only men have been awarded the level 
of praise that comes with being pre-sented on paper currency. This is an obvious imbalance in gender recog-nition, and if it isn’t corrected, it will continue to instill false ideas about men and women in the minds of our 
people.
When people don’t see women on paper currency, they 
often adopt the idea that women are incapable of achieving the necessary level of accomplishments to be recognized on such a major platform. Men are then assumed to be more ca-pable than women, so they receive more generous assump-tions and beneficial treatment solely because of their gender. Just imagine you are a child again. Considering all of the admirable people on money are men, what do you assume about the capabilities of women? What about those of men? Male-only currency perpetuates male privilege. We can take 
a stab at it, however, by supporting the Women on 20s cam-
paign and eliminating the gender-specific nature of who can be found in our wallets.
Don’t get me wrong; the men currently presented on 
our currency are indeed accomplished. But they don’t ac-curately represent the demographics of people who have led our country. England took a step toward fixing their gender imbalance on currency in 2013 when they renovated their 10-pound note with a portrait of novelist Jane Austen instead 
of naturalist Charles Darwin. We, too, can begin to fix our 
gender imbalance by introducing a woman on the $20 bill. If we start with this one change, especially on such a frequently used bill, our currency would begin to recognize who our country’s leaders truly are, and we will be much closer to gender equality.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Christopher
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
In the span of one short week, Star-
bucks rolled out and ended a campaign called “Race Together,” with a hashtag and sticker set to match. Starbucks al-lowed its partners to write “Race To-
gether” on customers’ cups, hoping to generate dialogue. By the way, “partner” is just what Starbucks calls its employees as a gesture of goodwill and to show that employees are valued. 
Almost unanimously, Starbucks em-
ployees and customers alike condemned the idea as inappropriate and misguided. After such a tense and negative response, the company ended the cup mes-
sages part of the campaign — under the ofﬁ  cial expla-
nation of they were always going to end it after a week — but are still encouraging the conversations.
For the sake of transparency, I am a Starbucks part-
ner, and I do believe in the general integrity and good intentions of the company. Unfortunately, good inten-tions do not always manifest in workable strategies. I ﬁ  nd it admirable that Starbucks saw the issues of race in America — something so prevalent and impossible to ignore — as worthwhile to discuss. In a country where so few companies are willing to take a stand on 
issues that affect their customer and employee base, it’s 
refreshing that Starbucks continually shows its support, as it did last year in asking customers to leave ﬁ  rearms outside the coffee shops for the safety of customers and employees, or in banning smoking outside stores.
I’m quite pleased to work for a company that rec-
ognizes race is an issue that needs national attention, but asking baristas to engage with customers on such tense issues was doomed to fail from the start. Race is a sensitive subject, and it can make people extremely upset or uncomfortable. This does not mean these is-sues should be ignored, but perhaps they should be left outside the realm of the Starbucks transaction. 
As an employee, I can attest to tense situations be-ing bound to occur inside a Starbucks without 
adding anything as serious as race into the 
mix. I’ve had customers berate me over cups of complimentary water, the amount of occu-pied tables in the lobby or my sheer audacity to run out of a certain item. 
I don’t need to discuss hundreds of years of 
slavery, oppression and institutionalized rac-ism with a 68-year-old ACR (Alachua County Resident). Some customers were already mad 
we stopped serving decaf; I don’t need to hear 
their opinions on race. 
With baristas regularly on the receiving end of nega-
tivity and backlash, it makes sense that many of us, de-
spite desires for real conversations about racism to take place, would rather avoid such discussions at work. A 
barista named Alana Banks wrote a poem about the 
experience of racism in the workplace before anything like #RaceTogether began. In her piece, she writes that a demanding customer called her a “black bitch.” Race Together won’t address the real issues of racism that some employees experience daily. We can't solve such massive issues with a simple conversation in a tense transaction with a stranger. Instead of looking to “start a dialogue,” perhaps Starbucks should look to take de-
ﬁ  nitive action to better the environment for its partners 
of all races, and put new policies in place that refuse to tolerate such belittling treatment of employees.
There is a ﬁ  ne line between enduring customer ser-
vice and enduring verbal abuse. Race Together began to promote conversation, but how much could a barista really say to an arguing customer without stepping out-side the bounds of polite customer service?  To me, the Race Together campaign shows a good amount of heart 
but very little thought from ofﬁ  cials higher on the cor-
porate ladder. Race Together appears to be the brain-child of Starbucks employees who are so far removed from the experience of working behind the counter that possible resulting tensions between partners and cus-tomers, or even within the staff, did not occur to them.
Starbucks operates on a motto of personalization 
and connection — really interacting with a customer in an attempt to brighten his or her day, a break from the anonymity of a typical food service transaction. Race Together was an attempt to extend that motto into so-cial politics, which was perhaps a step too far. Espresso and activism don’t mix. When it comes to work, I like to leave my opinions at the door, no matter how ﬁ  rmly I’m resolved, because I know that a simple “discussion” 
with a customer is bound to solve absolutely nothing.
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her columns ap-
pear on Wednesdays.Intentions behind #RaceTogether misguidedColumn
Tony Wright is a prisoner serving his 
time in Philadelphia. In 1993, he was convicted of rape and murder. Today, he is still serving out his life sentence.
However, Wright is a little out of 
place in prison. He has something not many of his counterparts have: DNA tests proving his innocence.
One would think this would make Wright 
stand out amongst his peers; however, his plight is similar to that of his cellmates. He still lives behind bars and sleeps in a cell. He patiently waits in a county jail, hoping he will get the retrial he deserves. If he gets it, he 
will undoubtedly become a free man. But for 
now, he continues to be treated like a crimi-nal.
Unfortunately, Wright’s story is not the 
result of exceptional bad luck. In fact, his situation is similar to many cases that have recently come under scrutiny. 
As DNA testing continues to advance, it 
has become evident that far too many inno-
cent people are behind bars. It is apparent 
these cases are not isolated events, but rather 
the result of a systematic trend. The source: archaic prison policy that separates America from the rest of the world in a very bad way.Research suggests police are 
overzealously arresting American citizens. Studies show America’s incarceration rate far exceeds that 
of any developed country. In fact, 
our states have higher incarcera-tion rates than most countries. Data indicates the state of Wash-ington has the same incarceration rate as Russia; New York has the same incarceration rate as Rwan-da; and Washington, D.C., has a higher incar-
ceration rate than Cuba.
But our crime levels are lower than those 
of these countries. This means our high incar-
ceration rates are not due to high crime but 
rather stem from a different source. Research published in Professor Alfred Blumstein’s and Joel Wallman’s “The Crime Drop in America” conﬁ  rms this notion. The data collected suggests “the growth in the U.S. prison popula-
tion can be more closely attributed 
to ideological policy choices than actual crime rates.” 
That being said, it is evident 
many police ofﬁ  cers are adhering to a very inefﬁ  cient philosophy. It appears justice is not the main 
motive behind the actions of many ofﬁ  cers. Instead, recent studies suggest many de-partments encourage their ofﬁ  cers to simply 
get an arrest at any cost. Lawyers working 
with the Innocence Project, an organization ﬁ  ghting wrongful incarcerations through the use of DNA testing, have overturned many convictions resulting from this mindset. The abundance of cases exposing faulty arrests has demonstrated that too many police ofﬁ  -cers have no desire to employ actual justice.
The systematic incarceration of innocent 
people is not only morally wrong but also 
leads to widespread prison overpopulation. 
This problem is a costly endeavor that plagues our country and drains our budget. And un-fortunately, America still holds fast to policies that facilitate unnecessary convictions.  
Take, for example, the mass incarcera-
tion of nonviolent drug users that has ﬁ  lled prisons to the brim. These people are not a 
danger to society and have not threatened 
anyone’s livelihood in any way, yet they are placed in prison like violent criminals.
This demonstrates our system is failing in 
multiple facets, and our policies and ideolo-gies have failed to garner optimal results.
Other developed countries have taken 
strides to better their prison systems. They have progressed their ideologies and have reaped the beneﬁ  ts. Yet, the U.S. continues to 
stagnate while other countries move forward.
Wright’s story is indeed tragic, but, un-
fortunately, it is not a rare occurrence. The 
incarceration of innocent people is continuing at an unprecedented rate. These arrests are not caused by isolated events, but rather the systematic result of an outdated system. 
Our policies must progress if we wish to 
ﬁ  x this problem. It is time our prison system 
left the past and ﬁ  nally joined the free world 
in the present.
Dennis Fiore III is a UF political science 
freshman. His column appears on Wednes-
days.
America's inefficient prison system leads to overpopulation, high costs ColumnA part of my college education is missing. The classes I took were 
great (at least some of them), and I did well in my classes (at least some of them). But when I wasn’t in the library or lab trying to keep up with better-prepared students, I was working as a dish-washer in the cafeteria, earning money to pay for tuition.
Two weeks ago, I had the privilege of watching 
thousands of UF students celebrate raising a record of more than $2 million for UF Health Shands Chil-dren’s Hospital in the Dance Marathon. More than 2,300 students planned or participated in the event, including 825 dancers who stayed on their feet for more than 26 hours. That so many committed an en-tire weekend to helping sick children left an indelible impression on me.
I am awestruck that so many of you give up por-
tions of your weeks in school, your Spring Break and even your summers to serve others. You volunteer at UF Shands Hospi-tal. You paint school classrooms, clean up neighborhoods, mentor at-risk youths, volunteer overseas through service trips and perform many other community service good deeds — locally, nationally and worldwide.  
The UF culture of leading through serving and working together for a 
greater good persists beyond graduation. It is one reason UF consistently ranks among the nation’s top ﬁ  ve universities in the number of graduates 
entering the Peace Corps.
I missed a number of personal beneﬁ  ts by not being involved in a ser-
vice organization and not volunteering my time while in college. I missed 
the opportunity to work toward a goal that was greater than just my exams, papers and grades. I missed the opportunity to learn from, and be inspired by, other students working not for themselves but together for a greater cause.
Educators now know that service-learning can be a meaningful com-
ponent of a college curriculum. Not only is the classroom important, but 
experiential learning and the living-learning environment contribute to a 
student’s education. What we learn outside of the classroom and our text-books can motivate, inspire and even transform our lives.
Fortunately, my graduate divinity studies included a mandatory service-
learning requirement. I worked as a volunteer middle-school tutor in the Cabrini-Green public housing project in Chicago. That brief experience was as meaningful as any course I took in college. The privilege of serving others and working with a team toward a common positive goal was in-credibly satisfying. The challenges that I faced in my studies and personal 
ﬁ  nances seemed to fade when I was volunteering. I felt energized and 
inspired because I saw how I was making a positive difference.
I know there are many UF students who need to devote almost all their 
energy and time to study and work and who aren’t able to devote signiﬁ  -cant time to volunteer activities. However, if you can’t take advantage of the educational opportunities to learn through serving now, I urge you to do so when the opportunity is right.  
Making a positive difference by enabling others to achieve their aspira-
tions is the meaning behind the phrase “For the Gator Good.” The UF cul-
ture of Leading through Serving is one reason The Gator Nation is unique.
UF President Kent Fuchs will be contributing a semiregular column.Service as important as classColumn
Amy Coker
opinions@alligator.org
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Dennis Fiore
opinions@alligator.org"To me, the Race Together 
campaign shows a good 
amount of heart but very little 
thought from oicials higher 
on the corporate ladder."
"It is time our prison 
system left the past and 
inally joined the free 
world in the present."WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Charming 2 bed 1 bath housewith large fenced yard, screen porch,washer/dryer hookup,dog with deposit,1123 nw 31st avenue, lease,$800475 1586 or/213 1963 leave message   3-25-15-5-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSEBike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $375/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    3-25-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14
Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl basic English and math to help her trans-fer to the US education system. Experience with children and reference required. ~20hr/wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    4-2-15-8-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/30 - 4/3 from 5-7 p.m. each day.   Verbal sessions are M & T; Math sessions are W & R.  Go to the teachingcenter.ufl.edu and click “Study Skills” and “Workshops” to register and learn the location.      3-31-6-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesWEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsBy Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
The Gators women’s golf team entered 
the Briar’s Creek Invitational on Monday as 
a top-25 team for the first time this season.
The newest addition to the rankings 
proved its worth, after a tournament team 
score of two-over-par gave them a clubhouse 
lead and their first tournament victory of the season.
“I’m really happy for the team, they did a 
great job today,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “We knew we had the lead going into today and I was really happy with the way they handled the pressure.”
Monday’s first day featured a shotgun 
start and was supposed to have 36 continu-ous holes. 
However, there were simply not enough 
hours in the day for teams to conclude two rounds, as the sun set on the golfers, resulting in a postponement during Round 2.But once the sun rose, it was clear the 
Gators were able to remain focused, shooting 
6-under-par during the third and final round 
to end the tournament with a 2-over-866.
While sophomore Kelly Grassel led the 
team during the first two rounds, Tuesday’s final round saw the emergence of a new, yet familiar face in senior Camilla Hedberg.
At times this season, Hedberg has strug-
gled to find her game, after returning from a shoulder injury suffered in September of last 
year, which sidelined her for the Fall season.
Hedberg was able to match Grassel’s first 
round score, as she recorded the Gators’ low-
est round of the season at 3-under-par, im-proving her tournament score to a 7-over-223. 
She finished the event in a tie for 26th 
place. 
Grassel is not to be forgotten, though.The Chesterton, Indiana, native finished 
Round 2 with an even par score, before shooting three birdies and two bogeys in the By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Geoff Collins must have felt like 
he walked into a gold mine when he 
took the job as co-defensive coordi-
nator for the Florida football team.
That gold mine is filled with de-
fensive back talent and potential 
that could be among the best in the 
nation.
Florida returns 16 defensive 
backs heading into the upcoming season, giving Collins a lot of op-
tions in how he will use the entire 
unit.
“It gives us a lot of flexibility in 
what we do,” Collins said. “One of 
the best things about them is that 
group is highly competitive. They love playing football and they’re unselfish.”
The best player in that group is 
Vernon Hargreaves. The Tampa na-tive has been an impact player since he first stepped on the field two seasons ago. Hargreaves has started 
22 games in his career and has six 
interceptions and 24 pass breakups.
The junior was a semifinalist for 
the Chuck Bednarik award, given to the best college defensive player, 
last season.  
One player who has caught the attention of Collins in spring prac-tice is redshirt freshman J.C. Jack-
son.
Jackson played in the season 
opener against Eastern Michigan, 
but was hurt in the game and took a 
medical redshirt afterward.
His athletic ability and versatility 
in the defensive backfield is some-thing Collins loves.
“J.C. is probably one of the most 
athletic kids, possibly, that I’ve ever been around,” Collins said. “He’s done a good job for us, playing cor-
ner, playing some nickel, very fast, 
very physical, very athletic. Tech-nique, he gets better every day.
“Sometimes some of the techni-
cal things he might not be 100-per-
cent on, he can make up for sheer 
athletic ability.”
Collins is known for bringing 
his safeties down into the box and 
moving them around in his defen-
sive scheme. At Florida, it’s going to be no different with the amount of physicality the group brings.
Keanu Neal will be one of the 
safeties Collins will be working with because of how physical the junior can be.
Neal played in 10 games last 
season and started eight at safety, recording 45 tackles and three inter-
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman defensive back J.C. Jackson catches a ball during practice on March 16 at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Defensive back depth giving Gators flexibility in Spring
UF returns 16 players from last season
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE WOMEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15WOMEN'S GOLF 
UF wins first tourney of year 
at Briar's Creek Invitational By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
The madness began in the sixth in-
ning.
Stetson starter Adam Schaly was 
pulled after his pitch hit Ryan Larson in 
the face, drawing blood. 
Minutes later, right-
hander Josh Thorne pegged 
Richie Martin in the back, 
drawing a reaction from Florida’s dugout. Thorne was ejected. 
As the Gators led 5-1 heading into 
the bottom of the inning, they crumbled without starter Alex Faedo on the mound, surrendering four hits, five runs and their lead.
But UF’s offense managed to bail out 
its bullpen as No. 4 Florida (21-5) avoid-ed an upset with a 9-6 victory over Stet-son (14-12) Tuesday night. 
The game was UF’s first against SU 
since 2009, but felt more like a matchup between two familiar rivals.
While Faedo was sharp — the righty 
allowed just two hits and one run in five 
innings — Florida’s bullpen continued its 
streak of inconsistency.
Its five relievers com-
bined for four strikeouts while allowing five runs and 
five hits. Two of them failed 
to record an out.
“We played nine innings, 
and then we have one half an inning 
where we don’t pitch. It kind of puts a 
sour taste in your mouth,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “(The win) doesn’t dis-guise the fact that we have to do a better job out of the pen.”
Florida tallied a .359 batting average, Florida defeats Stetson 
despite poor relief pitching
Peggy Porter clinches win 
for UF women's tennis
The Gators are on an 11-game win streak, pg. 16Senior midfielder Shannon Gilroy earned her fifth Big East weekly honor on Tuesday when she was named the conference's Midfielder of the Week.
Basketball facility getting a face lift
The University Athletic Association approved a $1.2 million renovation for 
UF basketball complex's weight room, the school announced Tuesday. Con-struction is set to begin in April and is expected to be completed by August.BASEBALL14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
and six of its players had at least two hits. 
Josh Tobias had the game’s only home run 
alongside a team-high three RBIs, and Martin 
reached base for the 10th time in his last 11 games, 
going 3-for-4 while scoring three runs.
Florida cruised through the first inning with four 
runs on four hits as six batters reached base.
But in the bottom of the first and with the sun 
shining in his eyes, Harrison Bader couldn’t locate a fly ball to left field, which allowed the Hatters’ Vance Vizcaino to reach third. 
Vizcaino scored after Stetson’s next batter 
grounded out, narrowing UF’s lead to 4-1.
Stetson recorded just one hit in the next four in-
nings before taking the lead against Florida in the sixth.
The Hatters led by one until the eighth, when 
Bader scored Martin from second after he singled to center field. 
Next, Josh Tobias hit a two-run homer to take 
a 8-6 lead.
Florida scored one more run in the ninth after 
Larson grounded out to second base, scoring Jason Lombardozzi.
Florida will return home to begin a three game 
series against Alabama beginning Thursday at 7 p.m.
“We probably needed a game like this, to be 
honest with you,” O’Sullivan said. 
“To fall behind after we had a comfortable lead 
and to battle back was good for our team and our psyche.”final round, improving her tournament score 
to 4-under-par.
“It was a great tournament for Kelly,” 
Glaser said. “She’s been playing some great 
golf this spring, but had yet to put three good 
rounds together like she did this week.”
For Grassel, her score put her in second 
place for the event, which is her second top-five finish this Spring and the second consecu-tive tournament a Gator finished at the two spot.
The first to do so was sophomore Karolina 
Vlckova.
Vlckova had another astounding perfor-
mance, shooting even in Round 3 and one-over-par for the tournament, placing her in a tie for sixth place. 
The team is heating up at the right time, 
with four golfers finishing in the top-25 for consecutive tournaments.
“Each player had a solid round today,” 
Glaser said. “It’s a real testament to the depth 
and consistency of this team."WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Justen Rosenberg / Alligator
Camilla Hedberg putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on 
UF's Mark Bostick Golf Course. Hedberg shot a 3-under-69 in the final round of the Briar's Creek Invitational to finish the three-round tour-nament at 7-over par. 
WOMEN'S GOLF,  from pg. 13UF had four golfers finish in the top 25By Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
 
In his first season at Florida, 
new defensive coordinator Geoff Collins may arguably have the eas-iest job taking over a unit out of 
any new coordinator in the coun-
try. 
Collins inherits a defense that 
returns seven starters from last sea-
son — a unit that finished ranked 15th nationally in total defense.
Luckily for Collins and the de-
fense, the system that was ran last 
year is very simi-lar to what Col-lins is installing. 
The only real 
difference comes with terminol-ogy.
“We’ll look 
through and see 
‘this is what has been called in the past, here’s how it was different,’” Collins said. “... It’s kind of teach-ing them a new language.”
Instead of identifying key roles 
in the depth chart, Collins said the staff is trying to rep as many dif-ferent personnel groups together as possible, in order to simulate game situations in case of injuries.
“(We’re) just trying to fig-
ure out what the best matchup is when they’re together what the 
best chemistry is,” Collins said. “And so, on Saturdays when we’re 
rolling through guys or a possible injury may happen, they’re used to communicating with the differ-ent guys that they’ve played with throughout the spring.”
The one position that is severe-
ly lacking depth this spring is at linebacker, which lost Mike Taylor and Neiron Ball after last season. 
The lone returning starter, An-
tonio Morrison, is recovering from 
a knee injury he suffered during the Birmingham Bowl in January. 
Collins said Daniel McMillian 
and Alex Anzalone have done an 
admirable job early on in practice.
“The guys have kind of rallied 
around them because they can get along with any kid on the team,” Collins said. 
“They understand the defense, 
they know how to make the calls, they do it with confidence.” 
Continue reading this story at 
alligatorsports.org
Florida expecting consistency on defense under Collins
Collins
BASEBALL,  from pg. 13Six of Florida's 
batters recorded 
at least two hits
ceptions, which was good enough 
for second on the team.  
Marcus Maye was heavily in-
volved last season and led all defen-sive backs in tackles with 62.
Collins has been working with 
the safeties a lot in spring prac-
tice, which is something coach Jim McElwain wanted to have when he 
first hired Collins.  
The ability to rotate players in the 
secondary and to figure out who is the best at rushing the quarterback 
is key when Collins moves between 
the Sam and Nickel positions.  
“They’ll be a new nickel, may-
be he’s a linebacker, maybe he’s a safety, maybe he’s a corner,” Col-
lins said. “A new guy at the rush position that we’ll have either Alex 
(McCalister) or sometimes it’ll be Quincy (Wilson) or whoever it may be.
“Move those guys around to give 
them different shots to play differ-ent roles to see who does do it well in different personnel groupings.”
One corner on the team who was 
adept at getting after the quarter-
back last season was Jalen Tabor.As a freshman, Tabor led all de-
fensive backs with two sacks and 
four tackles for loss. He also added eight pass breakups en route to a spot on the Southeastern Confer-
ence All-Freshman team.
With the amount of talent and 
the individual highlights of some 
in the secondary, Collins said the group doesn’t hesitate to heap 
praise on others who haven’t had the same success.
“Even though Vernon might be a 
great player, Marcus, Keke are great 
players, it doesn’t (turn) them down a little bit for somebody else to have 
success,” Collins said. “They love 
seeing DP (Deiondre Porter) have success, J.C. have success, Quincy, those kind of guys. They pull for each other. It’s a fun group to be 
around.”
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 13Gators plan to rotate players in secondary throughout practiceFlorida’s last five 
first-place finishes 
and team scores
Cougar Classic (September 
2013): 5-under-par
Florida Challenge (January 
2013): 10-over-par
Betsy Rawls Invitational 
(October 2012):  1-under-par
Cougar Classic (September 
2012): 12-under-par
SunTrust Gator Invitational 
(March 2012):  24-over-par“W e probably needed a game like this, to be 
honest with you. To fall behind after we had a 
comfortable lead and to battle back was good 
for our team and our psyche."
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
By Kyle Brutman      
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
The Florida men’s and women’s track and ﬁ  eld 
teams will travel to Austin, Texas, for the three-
day Texas Relays. 
Competition begins today.This will be the ﬁ  rst major out-
door meet for the Gators in 2015, as last week’s UCF Black and 
Gold Challenge featured 
just three UF athletes 
— women throwers Jayla Bostic, Lloydricia Cameron and Jontavia Dykes.
Coach Mike Holloway will be sending 
a total of 17 athletes to compete in 14 respective events.
The Gators will also feature four relay squads, 
as both the men’s and women’s 4x400 groups will compete alongside the men’s 4x200 and the wom-en’s 1600 sprint medley.
Senior thrower Fawn Miller will be making her 
highly anticipated 2015 debut in the javelin toss.
Miller is coming off a historic outdoor season in 
which she won the Southeastern Conference jave-lin title, setting the meet record in the process, and the NCAA javelin title — both in personal record-breaking fashion.
Including the conference and national titles, 
Miller won each of her ﬁ  nal four javelin events last season, also doing so in the LSU Invitational and the NCAA East Preliminary Round.
Senior jumper and USTFCCCA National Indoor 
Field Athlete of the Year Marquis Dendy will make his outdoor season debut in the long jump.
The Middletown, Delaware, native will look to 
maintain the momentum he gathered at the SEC Indoor Championships and the NCAAs.
Dendy won the conference and national titles in 
both the long jump and triple jump—with the latter national title setting a new UF record and placing him third on the all-time collegiate list.
Joining Dendy in the long jump will 
be freshman jumper KeAndre Bates, who will make his outdoor collegiate debut.
Bates’ ﬁ  rst indoor season as a Gator was high-
lighted by a PR-setting third-place ﬁ  nish in the long jump at the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
He also set a PR in the triple jump at the na-
tional meet.
NCAA indoor triple jump champion Ciarra 
Brewer will make her outdoor debut in Austin. 
Brewer is a historically-better triple jumper in 
outdoor meets, as her PR in each of her outdoor seasons is over one-tenth of a second better than her indoor season-bests.UF heads to Texas for next meet
TRACK
Miller
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Eneisy Rodriguez
Alligator Writer
@eneisyr29
The Gators are rolling, and they 
don’t appear to be slowing down. 
The No. 5 Florida women’s ten-
nis team extended its win streak to 11 matches after clinching a 4-3 
victory over No. 15 Texas A&M 
Tuesday at the George P. Mitchell Tennis Center, keeping UF unde-feated in conference play.  
With the match tied 3-3 and 
only one court still playing, UF freshman and Texas native Peg-gy Porter secured the win for the Gators, defeating Texas A&M’s Ste-
fania Hristov 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 (2) on 
Court 6. 
“It came down to Peggy in her 
home state, and as a freshman in that environment, to be able to come through after a back-and-forth battle was really, really fan-tastic,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release. 
“It’s something you can’t pre-
pare for and she just showed great toughness today to be able to close it out for the Gators.”
The Aggies (8-4, 5-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) entered the match with ﬁ  ve-consecutive wins, but the Gators (16-1, 8-0 SEC) proved to be too much for the them to handle.
Florida start-
ed singles play with a 1-0 dis-advantage after 
dropping the 
doubles point for the ﬁ  rst time since its match against Alabama 
on Feb. 27. 
The No. 31-ranked pairing of 
Josie Kuhlman and Porter fell to Texas A&M’s Rutujua Bhosale and 
Saska Gavrilovska, 8-5.
The 54th-ranked duo of Spencer 
Liang and Belinda Woolcock fell to 
the Aggies pairing of Eva Paalma and Rachel Pierson, 8-6.  
In singles play, Florida earned 
wins from Brooke Austin, Kourt-ney Keegan and Josie Kuhlman before Porter clinched the victory.Freshman clinches win
Porter
