NO FLY ZONEINSIDE
On and off the field, Florida’s secondary has a unique bond that makes it 
one of the best secondaries in the country. 
ONLINE
For updates on Saturday’s game between Florida and East Carolina, staytuned to alligator.org/sportsBy Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Florida’s secondary is known around the 
country as one of the best in college football.
The Gators’ defensive backs have youth and 
experience across the board that can compete 
with any top-tier secondary in the country.
It all starts with Vernon Hargreaves III, com-
monly regarded as the best cornerback in the nation. Opposite him is sophomore Jalen Tabor, one of the game’s rising starts and a former five-star recruit himself.
Sprinkle in corners Brian Poole and Quincy 
Wilson along with safeties Keanu Neal and Mar-cus Maye, among others, and you have the mak-ings of a dynamic group of defensive backs. 
It’s a unit that was tied for 15th nationally in 
interceptions last season, and has been a top 20 pass defense in six of the last seven years and a top 10 pass defense in three of those six years.  
But this year they want to be better.They’ve placed higher expectations on them-
selves and have accepted the challenge of being the best in the country, with Hargreaves leading the charge.
“We’re the best part of the team. Without a 
doubt we’re probably the best in the country,” Hargreaves said at the Southeastern Conference Media Days.
However, what hasn’t been said is how close 
they are off the field. Spending so much time with each other outside of games and practices is vital to how each of them plays on Saturdays.
It isn’t about how many interceptions they 
get or how many highlight reel plays they make.
It’s about building a bond that goes beyond 
the field and will last well beyond their playing days.
What goes on behind the scenes when no-
body’s watching, and the friendships forged when the bright lights of Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-um aren’t on, is what gives the Gators’ second-ary the confidence it possesses to be the best in 
the nation.   
“We’re the closest unit on the team. We 
might be the closest unit in all of college foot-ball, we just go out there, we compete with each 
other and make each other better,” Tabor said. 
“I feel like off the field we’re just as close as 
we are on the field.” 
•   •   •
For defensive backs, the film room is their 
go-to place. It’s where they find time to break down the game, correct their mistakes and com-municate with each other. In Florida’s case, you won’t just see one member of the secondary go 
into the room at a time.
“They go in packs. Very rarely do you see 
people by themselves. It’s two at a time, three 
at a time,” defensive backs coach Kirk Callahan said.
But the film room isn’t just a place to do 
work. It’s a place where they have another chance to bond, become closer and strike up a chemistry that goes beyond the field.
Defensive lineman Bryan Cox Jr. has seen it 
first hand.    
“You go in the defensive room to watch film 
and you’ll either see Keke (Neal) or you’ll see all of them in there watching film together, calling out plays and stuff like that,” Cox said. “That’s a strong sign that they’re really close.”
The importance of having a strong bond is something Tabor has appreciated since he set foot on campus. He’s been with the program for two years and has already experienced two dif-ferent coaching staffs.
But what the Washington, D.C., native hasn’t 
seen change is the players surrounding him. The familiarity with the others has allowed him  build a relationship, one he compares to a fam-ily.
“I feel like we get along so well off the field, 
we’re like brothers,” Tabor said. “We’re going to fight. We fight sometimes, we argue, we get on each other hard and at the end of the day we all know that we’re for one another.”
The importance of family and getting along 
with each other is one of the things head coach Jim McElwain has stressed since he took over the program. He believes there are more impor-tant aspects in life than the game of football, with family being a top priority.
But when describing the secondary and how 
tight-knit of a group they are, he couldn’t help but praise them for putting the onus on them-
selves on and off the field.  
“What they’ve done is they’ve accepted kind 
of a responsibility above and beyond. We only 
get 20 hours with these guys, so a lot of things, they’ve gotten to kind of do on their own,” McElwain said.
“And to see how these guys have taken the 
extra time to study the opponent … that’s the thing that separates great players from just good 
players.”
•   •   •
While all members of the secondary speak 
highly of each other, the attention has always 
been on Hargreaves — projected to be one of the top draft picks in the 2016 NFL Draft. 
While football fans across the country are 
aware of his physical gifts, most might not know how unselfish he is off the field.
And it started before he landed in Gainesville.Coming out of Wharton High in Tampa, Har-
greaves was the No. 3 player in the country ac-cording to 247Sports. He had the reputation of being a shutdown cover corner in high school, but a lot of people don’t know that he’s always been the type of player willing to bring along others for the ride.
His father, Vernon Hargreaves II, now the 
linebackers coach at Arkansas, said his son was willing to defer to others and he didn’t want to take sole possession of the spotlight. It’s a qual-
ity Vernon has kept since he arrived at Florida, 
and he has taken the responsibility of imparting wisdom on the younger players.
“I think he probably just feels the obligation 
of helping those guys to get better, especially younger guys,” his father said. 
“That’s what you try to do if you’re one of 
the leaders or top guys. You try to bring as many guys along with you and help guys be better, and that’s what he’s trying to do.”
Vernon’s father also had the same thoughts 
about the importance of team chemistry within the position group. He said if one player is self-ish, it has a negative effect on the entire team when a coach like McElwain is trying to build 
a program. Sharing the accolades and being un-
selfish with each other is the sign of an up-and-coming program.
“When you’re playing your game and if you 
feel really good about the guys you’re playing around and you have a connection with those guys off the field as well, now you want to play really well and not let your partners down,” Ver-non’s father said. “I think that’s a big part of it as 
much as anything. It kind of all works together.” 
Vernon has also made a strong impression 
on Florida’s defensive coordinator Geoff Collins. At Mississippi State, Collins helped develop 
two cornerbacks who were second round picks 
in the 2013 NFL Draft — Darius Slay drafted by the Detroit Lions with the 36th overall pick and Johnthan Banks drafted 43rd overall by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
Banks was the 2012 Jim Thorpe award win-
ner, which is given to the top defensive back in the nation.
Vernon, however, is in a class of his own 
when compared to those two. 
While he might not have as many intercep-
tions as them, he does have 24 pass breakups in 
his first two seasons at Florida, compared to the 
26 Slay and Banks combined for in their last two seasons at Mississippi State. Vernon was also named an All-American in his first two seasons, and Collins loves the extra work Vernon puts in off the field. 
“One of my favorite things about Vernon is 
the things that he does that people don’t see,”   Collins said. “He’s one of the first ones in the 
meeting room to watch film. He takes notes. He 
studies. He does little things extra that people don’t see. But that’s one of the things the great ones do, is the extra little things that other peo-ple don’t see or aren’t willing to do.”
•   •   •
The veterans on Florida’s secondary do what 
they can to help bring along the younger play-ers. They spend extra time teaching them the intricacies of the position, because once Harg-reaves, Poole, Neal and Maye leave, their pro-
duction will need to be replaced. 
The crop of Tabor, Wilson, Nick Washing-
ton, Duke Dawson and others will be the next in 
line to carry the torch. 
Callahan sees it as imperative that the young-
er guys learn everything they can from the vet-erans.
“You want the young guys to see how it was 
done and done the right way. They’ve done a 
great job and obviously there’s the progression 
of when those guys move on, guess what, the young guys become the veterans now,” Calla-han said.
“Now you’re taught to sit there and teach 
the young guys and you like to keep that sys-tem rolling and you continue the success and the situation that we want to have with great players being in the back end continue to keep develop-
ing those guys.”
It’s never easy living up to high expectations, 
though. For the younger guys in the secondary, 
trying to crack the lineup and get playing time over the established players is no small task. 
But for guys like Wilson, Washington and 
Dawson, sitting behind the others provides an opportunity for them to learn the game.
“It’s kind of hard for them, but it’s also good 
for them to learn from us,” Hargreaves said. “They listen to what we have to tell to them.”
It worked out for the now-established guys in the secondary and it’s one of the reasons why they’ve gotten to the point where now they’re one of the best in the country.
•   •   •
With the second game of the season against 
East Carolina on Saturday, the lights will contin-ue to shine bright on the Gators’ secondary. And the question of whether they can be the best in the nation will play out as the season progresses.
But having the chemistry they have, com-
bined with their willingness to share the spot-light, there’s no reason why they shouldn’t live up to their expectations.
However, one thing is for certain: They’re not 
short on confidence.  
“We all know we’re talented. We all know 
we can play and we’re comfortable in our own skin,” Tabor said. “At the end of the day no mat-
ter who goes out there we know the job is going 
to get done no matter who goes out there. … Because at the end of the day we all have one goal, to be the best secondary in the country.”
FLORIDA offense vs. ECU defense FLORIDA defense vs. ECU offenseKICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photo for Cover Illustration Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, September 11, 2015
OUTINJURY
REPORT
OL Martez Ivey (Knee)
LB Matt Rolin (Undisclosed)
QUESTIONABLE
S Keanu Neal (Leg)
SUSPENDED
WR Latroy Pittman
OUT
INJURY
REPORT
QB Kurt Benkert (Knee)
DOUBTFUL
WR Deondre Farrier (Knee)OL Tre Robertson (Illness)
QUESTIONABLE
OT Dontae Levingston (Shoulder)
C.J. StruykCBlake KempQBChris HairstonRB
Jalen
T abor or 
Quincy WilsonCB
Vernon
Hargreaves IIICB
Jonathan
BullardDE
Joey 
IvieDT
Alex
AnzaloneSAM
Antonio
MorrisonMIKE
Jarrad
DavisWILL
Bryan 
Cox Jr.RUSH
Marcus
MayeS
Keanu Neal or 
Marcell HarrisSJ.T. BoydRGDontae 
Levingston or 
Brandon Smith RTIsaiah
JonesWR
Quincy
McKinneyLGIke
HarrisLTDavon
GraysonWR
Cam DillardC
 Will GrierQB
Kevin T aylorRBMason
HalterLTTrip
ThurmanLG
Antionio
CallawayWR
Antonio
RilesRG
David
SharpeRTJake
McGeeTE
Ahmad
FulwoodWR
Brandon 
PowellWRZeek
BiggerMIKE
Demage
BaileyDTT errell 
StanleyDEJosh
HawkinsCB
Jordan
WilliamsBUCK
Rocco
ScarfoneCBJoe AllelyWILL
Montese
OvertonSAMTravon
SimmonsS
T errell
RichardsonS
Johnathon
WhiteDEBryce
 WilliamsWR
Jimmy 
WilliamsWR
Caleb
BrantleyDTJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Safety Keanu Neal, who missed Florida’s season opener against New Mexico State with a leg injury, intercepts a pass during practice on Aug. 8 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
UF secondary wants to be the best
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III returns an interception during Florida’s 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Sharing
Goala commonWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 14 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
UF continues season 
with matchup against ECU
The Gators defeated the Pirates in the Birming-
ham Bowl to close out the 2014 season, pg 13.
14 years later, UF remembers 9/11
Students and faculty share their stories, pg. 3
Ropes course open for all students
Students don’t have to be afﬁ  liated with a group to partake, pg. 5Diversity through ﬁ  lm 
Check out the Gainesville Latino Film Festi-val photo story, pg. 8
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Bullseye
Easton Roorda, 8, gets his face painted with a Dia de Los Muertos theme in celebration of Latin cul-
ture on Thursday. “It’s great how the museum has a different theme every month, ” said his father, Ben Roorda. “The kids love the crafts too. ”
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Uber and Gainesville recently 
teamed up to help seniors get 
around town.
Uber, an app that enables peo-
ple to get from one destination to the next, has partnered with the city of Gainesville and ElderCare 
of Alachua County, Inc., to offer 
rides through the app to elderly citizens. A six-month trial of the service will begin this coming week for anyone age 60 or older in specific neighborhoods.
“For once, seniors will have 
options for transportation. While they’re aging, they can only rely on family, and now they have 
access to this program,” said 
Anthony Clarizio, the executive director of ElderCare of Alachua County, Inc. “It will put them 
back in motion.”
A representative from Elder-Care will come to the community centers located in two Gainesville 
neighborhoods, the 400 Building in downtown Gainesville and the Turkey Creek Forest community, 
to teach citizens how to use the 
app.
“We project at least 100 peo-
ple [will benefit],” Clarizio said. 
He also said the program has 
been in the works since last year, and it received approval Sept. 3 during a city hearing.
The success of the next six months will determine any future expansion.
“Then we’ll see for students 
and the rest of the community,” said Russ Blackburn, city man-ager of Gainesville. 
He said the program will be 
managed by ElderCare and the 
Gainesville Chamber of Com-
merce during the trial period.
Clarizio said ElderCare would 
be responsible for paying for the 
program, using $15,000 in grants 
from the city of Gainesville. 
The senior citizens using Uber 
would pay up to $5 based on their economic status, determined by 
Medicare and Medicaid, with 
some using the service for free.
Marcial Abrahantes, 19, said 
he thought the program would 
have great benefits.
“If none of their relatives have 
any time to move them around 
town, and they can’t drive them-selves where they want, then 
why not teach them how to use Elderly get Uber ride services HE WILL LEAD THE 
CHEER AT THE NEXT 
HOME GAME.
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
No stranger to Florida Field, 
Michael Cizek played the sousa-
phone last Fall with The Pride of Sunshine, one of many marching in the cluster of orange-and-blue 
uniforms.
But all eyes will be on Cizek 
on Saturday.
At the home game against 
East Carolina University, he’ll 
step on the ﬁ  eld once again, but this time he’ll be command-ing the crowd alone as Mr. Two Bits. In seersucker pants, a yel-
low button-down shirt and an 
orange-and-blue striped tie, he’ll lead the famous cheer:
“Two-bits, four-bits, six-bits, 
a dollar. All for the Gators, stand up and holler!”
Cizek, 19, said he couldn’t be-
lieve the University Athletic As-sociation chose him as the win-
ner of this year’s Mr. Two Bits 
competition Monday.
“I know what it’s like to step 
down on cherished ground, es-pecially on game day,” the UF ﬁ  nance sophomore said. “I deﬁ  -nitely don’t take that for grant-ed.”This is the second year the 
UAA opened the tradition to stu-dents, said Alicia Longworth, the UAA assistant athletic director of marketing and promotions. Stu-dents were encouraged to submit videos of their best rendition of the classic Two-Bits chant, and for the ﬁ  rst time, it was up to the 
Gator Nation to vote for the win-
ner.
Last year, the decision was up 
to UF Athletic Director Jeremy Foley, former Florida running back Errict Rhett and former UF Student Body President Cory Yef-fet.
“We just hoped to ﬁ  nd a stu-
dent who loved the University of Florida and the traditions that Mr. Two Bits stands for,” said Longworth, who oversaw the competition.
Cizek, who said he was one 
of two people to submit a video, will also continue as Mr. Two Bits at Gator Growl on Nov. 6. 
He also won tickets to Busch Gar-
dens’ Howl-O-Scream. 
Chris Yanes, a ﬁ  rst-year UF ar-
chitecture graduate student, was a ﬁ  nalist. A lifelong Gator fan, the 22-year-old said it was impor-tant not to forget the original Mr. Two Bits, George Edmondson Jr.
“I met Mr. Two Bits when I 
was 9 or 10 years old going to New Mr. Two 
Bits to carry on game tradition
Six-month trial coming
“For once, seniors will have 
options for transportation. 
While they’re aging, they 
can only rely on family, and 
now they have access to this 
program. It will put them back 
in motion.”
Anthony Clarizio
executive director of ElderCare of 
Alachua County
Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Cizek, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance sophomore, Gator 
Chomps while bicycling down Stadium Road. He was chosen by the University Athletic Association as the winner of this year’s Mr. Two Bits competition Monday.
SEE TWO BITS,  PAGE 4
SEE UBER,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate the 
heroes in our lives — both real and fantasy — tonight from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the 
Reitz Union. The event will 
feature a rock wall, a four-person tumbler, video games and the Multicultural Greek Council Showcase: Nourishing the Roots of our Culture. GatorNights will also be host-ing showings of the movie “Avengers: Age of Ultron” at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free barbecue during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate. Students may bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.
Krishna
Come and attend this week’s 
Friday Program at Krishna House to learn about “Secrets of Concentration from Bhagavad Gita.” The program starts at 7 p.m. with Mantra Meditation 
followed by Ice Breaker Session 
and Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. No registration is required. Come directly at 7 p.m. Krishna House is located at  214 NW 14th St.
SCREAM Theater Performance
On Sunday from  2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at Gator Wesley Center, 1380 W. University Ave., SCREAM (Students Challenging Realities and Educating Against Myths) Theater from Rutgers University is a peer educational interactive program that utilizes improvisational theater to edu-
cate on interpersonal violence. 
The belief behind this method is by creating a conversation about campus sexual assault, we can create safer communi-ties and prevent these crimes from ever occurring. SCREAM Theater focuses on bystander intervention, which urges all 
members of the community 
to get involved when they know something wrong is tak-ing place. A SCREAM Theater program involves a skit on the issue of sexual assault as well as “in”-and “out”-of-character Q&A with the audience.
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
ComedyFree stand-up comedy features UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals, every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at Market Street Pub and Cabaret down-town. 
The show features professional 
comedians and amateur comics tearing up the stage. Feeling funny? Show up before 9 p.m. and sign up for our comedy open mic. Comedy workshop at 8 p.m. is hosted by local pros. Visit  facebook.com/gainesvil-
lecomedyshowcase.
UFIC Study Abroad Fair
On Wednesday, from 10 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas, the UF International Center invites students and faculty to learn about current study-abroad programs. 
At the UF study abroad fair, 
students can learn more about the vast array of study abroad options available to them. Program directors, independent program providers and former study abroad students will be available to share their interna-tional experiences at the fair. 
The UFIC staff will be available 
to explain the application pro-cess and help students with the first steps to find the right pro-gram for them. Other universi-ties and institutions that offer UF-approved study-abroad pro-grams and internships will also be available.
Volunteer Org. Fair  
This year’s Volunteer Organization Fair is Wednesday. Meet and gather information about all the vol-unteer organizations available on campus and in the commu-nity. More than 50 organiza-
tions will be present, including 
GRACE Marketplace, Wilmot Gardens, Red Cross Gators and many more. The event will take place from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway.
Gator Plunge  
The Center for Leadership and 
Service’s Gator Plunge online 
applications are open until Wednesday. The day of service is Sept. 19 from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Gator Plunge is a day of ser-vice that allows students and community members to come together to give back to the Gainesville area. You can 
choose where you want to 
volunteer and with which or-ganization you want to work. Questions? Contact Cara Snider at CaraS@leadershipandser-vice.ufl.edu.
Biking Thru Addiction Bike 
Ride
Register for the Inaugural Biking Thru Addiction Fun 
Bike Ride to raise awareness of recovery in our community 
and support Metamorphosis of 
Alachua County, a community-based residential treatment pro-gram. The ride begins Sept. 19 at 9 a.m. at Boulware Springs Nature Park and will utilize the beautiful 10-foot-wide paved Gainesville-Hawthorne Trail. While the trail is 32 miles 
round-trip, you can ride what-
ever distance you’re comfort-able with. Remember, this is a fun ride! Packet pickup will start at 8 a.m. at Boulware Springs. There will be prizes, food, drinks, sponsor booths and more once the cyclists re-turn to Boulware Springs. Use 
the coupon code “ALLIGATOR” 
to save $10 during registration.   
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-tidisciplinary clinic at the UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. 
The program provides free and 
confidential legal representa-tion, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigration and restraining orders for protection against domestic violence. The pro-gram also has a social worker 
who specializes in intimate 
partner violence and provides counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to con-tact the clinic, please call 352-
273-0805 or email drake@law.
ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear 
in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 110 ISSUE 14
HIGH  90° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
ISABELLA SORRESSI
18, journalism freshman
Isabella Sorressi was 4 years old the morn-
ing the twin towers went down on Sept. 11, 
2001.
She didn’t have school that day, and she 
didn’t know why the TV stayed on. She said 
she didn’t understand why her dad came 
home upset. She didn’t understand why her 
dad was frantically calling family members in New York.
“When you’re young, you don’t know 
what’s going on,” the UF journalism freshman 
said. “I didn’t get it until a few years later.”
Her grandparents lived in New York, and 
she said her family was concerned about 
them.
“It’s weird because every year in school 
at this time, people assume everyone has a story,” she said.
But Sorressi, 18, said her memories are a 
little vague.
“When people who were my age remem-
ber something like that, it’s usually because something really signiﬁ  cant happened — I’m lucky that I don’t,” she said.
      
TAARIQ IMAMI
20, computer science junior
Taariq Imami doesn’t remember much 
about 9/11 except feeling like everything 
stopped.
“I didn’t really understand what was going 
on at the time because I was only 6,” Imami, a 
UF computer science junior, said.
He is from Melbourne, Florida, but he said 
the aftermath of the tragedy affected him.
“I’m Muslim, and it seems like a lot of 
people, like, turned on that religion and were afraid of it after,” he said.
He said there are people who don’t under-
stand what his religion is and link it to ter-rorism.
Now, Imami is a certiﬁ  ed pilot.When he started ﬂ  ying, he said people 
cracked jokes.“People are always making assumptions 
that certain groups are terrorists, which isn’t the case,” Imami said.  “Some people just take it to the extreme.”
He said his parents were shocked when the 
terrorist attacks happened.
“We felt like it was an attack on our home-
land because we live here,” Imami said.
      
NICK DEERING
21, ﬁ  nance senior
Nick Deering was 7 years old when the 
twin towers fell. He was in his second-grade 
classroom until his dad came to get him.
He said he remembers seeing it on the 
news but didn’t fully understand what was 
happening.
“I think I was old enough to realize every-
thing wasn’t OK,” the UF ﬁ  nance senior said. “I was too young for it to really have an im-pact.”
He said his mom tried to call his uncle that 
day. He had been ﬂ  ying in the Navy when the towers fell. He was OK.
“It was a frantic time period,” Deering said.
      
LINDA SMITH
52, administrative assistant
Linda Smith was sitting in the Ofﬁ  ce of the 
Dean for Research when she heard about the 
terrorist attacks.
A 37-year-old secretary at the time, she 
found out from Douglas Archer, the current 
associate dean for research.
“He told us ‘Did you hear? It just hap-
pened,’” she said.
She and the other assistants turned on the 
television in time to see the second tower come down.
“My ﬁ  rst thought was, ‘I need to ﬁ  nd out where my children are,’” Smith said.
They were 4 and 6.Smith said she called her sister, who was 
working for the National Parks Service in Washington, D.C., at the time.
“I was one of the last people to get through 
before the line was cut,” she said.
Smith, now a 52-year-old administrative 
assistant in the same ofﬁ  ce, said she didn’t ﬂ  y for a long time after. She ﬁ  nally went to the 
Newseum in Washington, D.C., in 2012 and 
saw the 9/11 exhibit.
“It was sad,” she said. “But when you hear 
the stories of those who survived, it made me feel proud to be an American.”
She said she will always remember the 
9/11 attacks.
“You just hugged your family a little tight-
er,” she said.
      
LYNN LEVERTY
political science senior lecturer
Lynn Leverty, a UF political science senior 
lecturer, said she didn’t hear the usual sounds 
of UF when she walked onto campus the day 
the towers fell.
“The campus was eerily quiet,” she said. 
“Nobody was around, which seemed really 
strange.”
Then a lecturer in her early 40s, Leverty 
walked into Anderson Hall to ﬁ  nd the faculty 
lounge packed with professors watching the buildings crumble on TV, she said.
The political ethics class she taught that 
day was nearly empty, but the students who were there were anxious to talk.
“I think they just wanted to be together 
and have somebody to talk to rather than just sort of wandering the campus,” she said. “I 
think all of us were just in shock.”
Leverty said she felt she had to include dis-
cussions on terrorism in her class.
“I didn’t feel like you could ignore the big-
gest thing that had happened in many, many 
years,” she said. “So yeah, it did change things a bit.”
 Alligator File Photo
Natalie Ford and Jessica Gordon tap ﬂ  ags into the ground on Sept. 6, 2010. The ﬂ  ags are 
part of a 9/11 memorial sponsored by College Republicans and Network of Enlightened Women on the Plaza of the Americas.
14 years later, UF remembers 9/11
By Caitlin Ostroff, Briana Erickson and Alexandra Fernandez(Uber)?” the UF behavioral and cognitive 
neuroscience sophomore said. 
“The Uber drivers just need to be 
aware of any special requirements they might have,” Abrahantes said.
But Julia Frohlich, a UF telecommuni-
cation freshman, said she was concerned 
about the possible confusion from an app.  
“Elderly people tend to not have same 
understanding or feelings about Uber 
use,” the 18-year-old said.
But Blackburn said the program would 
help the elderly citizens overcome the technology obstacle.
“We recognize the challenge it is that 
as people age [and] cannot drive, and a service like Uber could help them,” Black-
burn said.
the game, and it’s like when you 
meet somebody and think they’re larger than life,” Yanes said. “He was just one of those people.”
Yanes said he applied to be 
Mr. Two Bits because it’s one of the SEC’s best traditions and rep-resents what a true fan looks like.
The tradition began in 1949, 
when UF played The Citadel, which Edmondson had attended. The Gators were being booed, forc-
ing Edmondson to stand up and 
cheer.
It was a high school cheer, so 
everyone knew it, said Jane, his wife of 40 years. He was always positive and strived to support the students from the stands.
“When he talked to groups, he 
would always say, ‘Just remem-ber, never boo the other team; be enthusiastic and cheer for your team,’” she said.
Although he never attended 
UF, Edmondson, now 93, carried on the home-game tradition for 60 
years.
“He loved doing it, loved be-
ing a part of it,” Jane Edmondson 
said. “It was wild — he was hot and sweaty.”
He and his wife live in Tampa, 
where he watches the Gator games on TV every week — even though the Two-Bits cheer doesn’t make it 
on screen.
Since he retired in 2008, 13 
people have taken on the role of 
Mr. Two Bits. Typically they’ve been athletes or other well-known figures.
Cizek is preparing for his turn 
as Mr. Two Bits by watching Ed-mondson cheer on YouTube.
“I want to be as close to the tra-
dition that he started as possible,” he said. “And I don’t want to look like too much of a goober down there.”
Maddy-Grace Black was one of 
more than 9,000 people to vote.
With alumni for parents, the 
19-year-old said she was practi-cally born wearing Gator diapers.
Black, a UF family, youth and 
community sciences sophomore, said she promoted Cizek’s vid-eo on social media because she thought he was up to the challenge of leading the stadium as the leg-endary Mr. Two Bits.
“I see that in Michael: a lot of 
leadership and passion about be-
ing a Gator.”
Cizek showed off his Mr. Two 
Bits potential in his video, which 
he shot at the Florida vs. Florida State University soccer game. 
Garrett Mulholland, a UF fi-
nance sophomore, held the camera as Cizek road his orange-and-blue tandem bicycle down Stadium 
Road.
“As long as I’ve known him, 
he’s really always not been afraid 
to be himself,” Mulholland, 20, said, “and the heart of Mr. Two Bits is about being yourself, not for the sake of notoriety, but for fall-ing in love with your university.”
Cizek said he will be channel-
ing all the Gator pride and energy he used this summer as a Preview staffer on the field Saturday.
He remembers interacting with 
the freshman, their eyes wide with excitement over becoming Gators.
“I think that I’ll be able to share 
that with the entire crowd this Sat-urday,” he said.4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
By Sara Perlman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kira Silverman thinks people 
should be more like elephants.
“They are models to make our 
world sustainable,” the 21-year-old said.
On Saturday, Silverman will em-
cee and perform at a gala dedicated to the animal she loves.  
The Conservation Initiative for 
the Asian Elephant will host the 
event, which will help Asian el-
ephants in one of the five largest herds in the world. 
The gala will feature an impro-
vised performance by UF Theatre Strike Force, and will be from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Wooly located at 20 N. Main St.
Silverman said she hopes to high-
light the issue of elephants being hunted in South Asia and the lov-ing relationship elephants have with each other through her performance and work with the organization.
“I think my connection to the TSF 
and elephants will bring an energy to the audience at the gala,” the UF psychology senior said.
Silverman said she started to get 
involved with the conservation ini-tiative when she took UF professor Ron Chandler’s psychology of sus-tainability class last Spring. Chandler co-founded the organization in 1999. He said elephants are role models of how humans should interact with each other and the world. Elephants are compassionate and benefit the 
land they live on, he said.
“Elephants are highly socially 
intelligent, and understanding how 
they live with each other and benefit their landscape is a role model for us,” Chandler said.
UF sustainability senior Nazmi 
Ahmed said students usually hear about South Asian disasters, but they rarely hear about the animals there.
The 21-year-old said she feels 
a connection to the Asian elephant because of her South Asian heritage.
“I’ll be attending, and I’m really 
excited for it,” Ahmed said. 
Student tickets are $25 in ad-
vance and $12.50 at the door on a first-come-first-serve basis. 
UF students perform to celebrate Asian elephants  
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
The Florida Surgeon General and Secretary 
of Health Dr. John Armstrong spoke at the UF Health Pediatrics Gerold L. Schiebler Chil-dren’s Medical Services Center on Thursday to celebrate something he called nothing short 
of remarkable.
He was referring to the transfer of own-
ership of the UF Health Pediatrics Gerold L. 
Schiebler CMS Center from the Florida De-partment of Health to the university.
“It’s an opportunity for UF pediatrics and 
Ped-I-Care to continue to grow and meet the needs of the children of Florida.”
Ped-I-Care, a program that provides health 
insurance plan benefits to children with spe-cial health care needs, is one of the many pro-grams housed in the now-UF-owned building.
Dr. Scott Rivkees, physician in chief at UF 
Health Shands Children’s Hospital, said this transition is an example of how UF and the Florida Department of Health work together.
“This building really has been a beacon of 
excellence in pediatric care,” he said.
The UF Health Pediatrics Gerold L. Schie-
bler CMS Center opened its doors in 1991 and has since served tens of thousands of children with special health needs, Rivkees said.
The building ownership transfer saves UF 
$12 million, Armstrong said.  Rivkees said UF students should care about this transition because the center is a hub for education for medical students and undergraduates.
Armstrong said this transition gives UF’s 
department of pediatrics the opportunity to continue to grow and become more innova-tive.UF gets pediatrics center
UBER,  from pg1
Original Mr. Two Bits retired in 2008
TWO BITS,  from pg1About 100 seniors will benefit 
from the partnership
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Archive    
George Edmondson Jr., also known as Mr. Two Bits, leads The 
Swamp in his signature cheer before the Gators’ 2008 home open-er against Hawaii on Aug. 30.
Act against hunting 
““If none of their relatives have any 
time to move them around town, and 
they can’t drive themselves where 
they want, then why not teach them 
how to use (Uber)? ”
Marcial Abrahantes  
 UF behavioral and cognitive neuroscience 
sophmoreTWOBITS!
Four Bits
6bits!
A Dollar!
All for the
GATORS&Stand Up
HOLLERSTUDENT HOUSING WILL 
ALSO BE ADDED.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Between two cowpens, 19 shovels stuck 
out of the dirt at what will soon be the lat-
est addition to UF’s Beef Teaching Unit.
At Thursday’s ceremony, Florida cattle-
men broke ground for the construction 
of the teaching unit that will hold a new 
cattle processing facility, as well as stu-dent housing, said Todd Thrift, an associ-ate professor in the department of animal 
sciences.
The Beef Teaching Unit is an 80-acre 
farm at 3301 SW 23rd Terrace, he said. 
Most animal science students use the facil-
ity for classes and research.
In June, the Florida legislature allo-
cated $1 million for the first stage of the 
renovation, a move heavily lobbied by the Florida Cattlemen’s Association, wrote 
Geoffrey Dahl, department of animal sci-
ences chair, in an email. 
The second phase will cost an extra 
$2.6 million and is slated to take place in 
2016. It is pending legislative approval.The unit is split into a northern and a 
southern facility. The latter has been in disrepair for sev-
eral years. It was infested with termites and falling apart. 
The student housing was condemned a 
few years ago, Thrift said.
The facility was demolished about two 
weeks ago because of its problems, and 
the section is currently under construc-
tion, Dahl said.
Speakers from UF’s Department of Ani-
mal Sciences and the president of the FCA 
praised the construction before picking up 
their shovels to scoop up the powdery dirt.
UF animal sciences master’s student 
and Miss University of Florida Taylor Pohl 
smiled as someone took a photo of her shoveling dirt from the construction site 
in her tiara.
Pohl, 21, said she was nervous in the 
old southern facility.
“It was very rickety,” she said. “Having 
classes out there for the past three years, 
I was kind of scared it was going to fall in on us.”
Pohl said she’s excited for the new 
building.
“I feel like this new unit will not only 
provide the students more opportunities to learn but also a safer environment,” she said.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
STUDENTS DON’T HAVE TO 
BE AFFILIATED WITH A GROUP 
TO PARTAKE.
By Danitza Yukopila
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can climb to new heights Sunday all 
by themselves.
The Gator Open Climb high-ropes course at Lake 
Wauburg will allow students who aren’t affiliated with a group to use the course, a set of obstacles that promotes teamwork. Usually, the high-ropes course is only available for students in organiza-
tions who signed up in a group of 12.
The course has been open since last January, but 
the open-climb event is different this year.  Rather 
than being a two-day, all-weekend event, Gator Open Climb will be spread over the course of two 
Sundays: this Sunday and Oct. 4, said RecSports as-
sistant director for marketing and communications Andy Howard.
This will allow more students to attend, he said.The event is something you can’t do every week-end, said Michelle Langkop, the RecSports coordi-
nator for parks and outdoor recreation.
“For many people, it’s a brand-new opportunity 
to come out and try something different,” she said.
As of press time, 11 out of 132 spots for students 
were left, Langkop said. To avoid lines, students should register online. However, students can also 
show up the day of to replace possible no-shows.
Robert Kail, an economics junior, said he is 
looking forward to the event and registered alone through the UF RecSports website.
“I really like climbing, and I think it’s great that 
it’s free to students,” the 22-year-old said. “It’s re-ally an exciting way to meet more people.”  
The Gator Open Climb will allow students to 
register in advance through recsports.ufl.edu. The event will be from 10:45 a.m. to 5 p.m.Ropes course open for all studentsSungwhan Cho / Alligator 
A group of Florida cattlemen and executives break ground for the construction of the UF/
IFAS Beef T eaching Unit, 3301 SW 23rd T errace, Thursday. The 80-acre farm will house a new cattle processing facility and student housing.UF starts construction for new beef teaching unit 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
University of North Florida student 
Wednesday afternoon after he was 
reportedly found with cocaine, par-
aphernalia and different forms of marijuana.
About 2:20 p.m. Wednesday, 
police entered 23-year-old Col-lin Vause’s apartment at Lofts Oa-sis, located at 2515 SW 35th Place, where they found almost five grams of cocaine and more than 20 grams of marijuana, according to a police report.
He also reportedly had a can of 
butane, which 
can be used to 
strip chemicals 
from marijuana when creating hash oil; a resin-
coated bowl; and 
a glass tube filled with wet marijua-
na, according to the report.
Vause reportedly told police he 
sells marijuana to friends, along with hash oil that he makes using the glass tube, according to the report.
Reported paraphernalia includes 
a glass bong, marijuana grinder and digital scales, which are commonly used to weigh drugs.
Vause is a registered student at 
the University of North Florida, said John Mark, a One-Stop operator working with the UNF registrar.
Police arrested Vause on charges 
for possession of marijuana with in-tent to sell, cocaine possession, pos-session of paraphernalia, possession of cocaine with intent to sell, and 
possession of dangerous drugs.
Authorities took Vause to the Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press 
time, he remains in lieu of a $62,000 
bond.UNF student arrested for drugsCAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer 
costroff@alligator.org
Students who want a free flu 
vaccine will need to show proof 
of insurance this year.
This is the first year students 
will need their insurance cards 
to get vaccinated at UF’s Stu-dent Health Care Center, said Catherine Seemann, SHCC com-munications coordinator. 
The SHCC will be billing in-
surance companies for the cost 
of the vaccines.
The money received through 
this will be put toward SHCC 
projects, including building ren-ovations, she said.
The SHCC doesn’t expect the 
requirement of insurance to af-fect student’s ability to receive the flu vaccine, Seemann said.
“The vast majority of stu-
dents are insured,” she said.
UF started requiring students 
to have health insurance Sum-mer B 2014, according to the SHCC’s website. 
Students are automatically 
billed for the student insurance plan unless they submit a waiv-
er proving coverage.
Students will have two op-
tions for receiving the free vac-
cine: a shot or a nasal spray. 
The nasal spray will only be 
available Friday on the Infirma-ry lawn, Sept. 22 on Turlington Plaza and Sept. 29 at the Reitz Union.
Researchers don’t yet know 
which vaccine is most effec-tive in college students, said Dr. Parker Small, a professor in UF’s Emerging Pathogens Insti-tute.
“That’s why we offer both,” 
he said.
Fewer than 10 percent of col-
lege students in the U.S. get the flu vaccine, Small said.
College students should get 
vaccinated to protect the elder-ly, he said.
“Our population is one-third 
college students,” Small said. “It becomes particularly impor-tant in Gainesville because of the size of the university.”
Catherine Caple, 21, said she 
wouldn’t be getting a flu shot because it doesn’t seem like a necessity.
“I know people who never 
had the flu, got the flu shot and then got the flu,” the UF Span-ish and linguistics senior said.
Although the SHCC usu-
ally sees the most flu cases in 
January and February, last year 
there was a high number of cas-es in September, Seemann said.
“It was strange — we saw 
more cases earlier,” she said.
Because there’s no way to 
tell if the flu will be bad this year, Seemann said students should get vaccinated sooner 
rather than later.
Ryan Thomson, 26, said he 
will get a flu vaccine on cam-
pus.
“I’m around too many stu-
dents to not,” the sociology teaching assistant said.
The SHCC will start vaccinat-
ing most students next Friday 
from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the In-
firmary’s front lawn.Students need insur-
ance for free flu shot
“For many people, it’s a brand-new opportunity 
to come out and try something different.”
Michelle Langkop  
RecSports coordinator for parks and outdoor recreationCocaine, marijuana found
Vause
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialColumn
Unpaid Internships: Experience vs. Exploitation
Most internships, paid or unpaid, are in-
credibly beneficial. They are a chance to learn and make valuable connections. More importantly, they allow you to test-drive a career and gain work experi-
ence. Even if you ultimately decide you don’t want to pursue a job in your internship’s field, many of the skills you honed will be useful in a different position down the road. While unpaid internships 
can have many of the same positive attributes as 
paid ones, they can also be problematic. Depend-
ing on the internship length, type of work, hours 
and chances of employment, they range from being a helpful learning experience to outright exploitation.
First and foremost, it should be noted that the majority of 
unpaid internships are not financially feasible for everyone. I have completed unpaid internships, which would not have been possible had I not saved money from scholarships and previous jobs. I am also among the minority of college stu-dents who still receive financial help from my parents (which 
I am endlessly grateful for).
With that being said, not all unpaid internships are exclu-
sionary. In fact, the summer internship I held with a nonprof-
it economic think tank, in my eyes, was an excellent example of what an unpaid internship should be.
Although I was a full-time intern, many of my fellow in-
terns were able to request part-time hours so they could hold jobs on other days of the week. We were also reimbursed for transportation costs, so we didn’t have to spend any money 
to participate. Furthermore, most of what we did for the 
think tank was purely educational; if we did complete work for them, it was highly supervised by employees so we could learn as much as possible. We were also invited to events that allowed us to network with highly esteemed academics, professionals and politicians.
My unpaid internship was a wonderful experience, and 
I learned a lot. However, many unpaid interns are not so lucky. I’ve heard of students working without pay at for-prof-it firms with a “staff” comprised almost entirely of unpaid interns. Lured by the vague possibility of a true job, they agree to work for several months performing the duties of full-time employees with absolutely no supervision and no compensation 
for lunch or travel expenses. They fill roles rang-
ing from human resources to database manage-ment. Their work generates most, if not all, of the firm’s revenue. 
When these interns completed their intern-
ships, their roles were immediately filled by another set of interns, and the cycle continued. 
While it’s true they agreed to work without pay, they only did so because they believed there was a light at the end of 
the tunnel: full-time employment. The sad truth is that this 
was an unlikely prospect their firms used to attract a continu-ous stream of unpaid labor.
If you are a prospective, unpaid intern who wants to 
avoid situations like the one above, take a minute to evalu-ate the likelihood of obtaining employment or useful con-tacts through your internship. If the company you’re going to intern with has a large, paid staff that started out in your position, your chances are probably pretty good. Similarly, 
if your company regularly associates with other firms in the 
same industry, you may have the opportunity to meet a fu-ture employer. However, if your internship involves you sit-ting in a room all day with other unpaid interns, it’s probably a dead end. Another red flag is whether your internship has a “revolving door.” If you notice most interns who complete their internships are simply replaced by more unpaid interns, it will probably be the same for you.
Internships are an increasingly mandatory prerequisite for 
post-graduate employment. Perhaps as they become more common, there will be a set of regulations developed for what differentiates an unpaid internship versus illegally free labor. Until then, the best thing anyone pursuing an unpaid internship can do is to be wary.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Acclaimed poet Busta Rhymes, the man who delivered 
the best verse on A Tribe Called Quest’s seminal album 
“The Low End Theory,” once wrote that “My making it is a 
combination of grinding, grinding, grinding and being lucky 
enough to finally get a shot.” 
As another week draws to a close here at UF, I think we 
can all find something to relate and aspire to in that state-
ment. 
Just because we all have a lot going on doesn’t mean that 
we don’t have time for…
 Darts and Laurels
As we covered in yesterday’s edition, Momcology and 
Cookies for Kids’ Cancer — two organizations centered on 
raising money and awareness for childhood cancer — held a bake sale on Turlington Plaza. 
As upsetting as childhood cancer is, it is inspiring to see 
people not only make the best of a difficult situation, but turn it into an opportunity to educate and brighten the days of others. For being incredibly sweet and showing resolved in the face of adversity, Momcology and Cookies for Kids’ 
Cancer get a Laurel.
For those of you who enjoy cucumbers, we have some 
bad news.
You’re going to want to stay away from any dish pep-
pered with cucumbers for a little while.
This week, the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion reported that salmonella-ridden cucumbers from Mexi-co have left two people dead and 341 sick. 
The cucumbers, which were distributed by San Diego-
based company Andrew & William Fresh Produce, have been recalled, but there is no way of being 100 percent sure about what has or has not made its way into the wild — the wild, of course, being our refrigerators and favorite restau-rants. 
It should be no surprise that salmonella gets a gross, 
bacteria-laced Dart for ruining cucumbers, a vegetable that should never be associated with sickness and death. 
Terry Gilliam has done a tremendous amount for the arts 
over the course of his four-decade long career. 
As a member of Monty Python, he provided iconic ani-
mations and timeless laughs; as a director, he brought the twisted tongue of gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson to life with his adaptation of “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas” and crafted dystopian epics with the likes of “Brazil” and “12 Monkeys.” 
So when Variety erroneously published a premature obit-
uary of the man, it should be no surprise that many were upset.
However, Gilliam himself took it in stride. Befitting of his usually absurdist approach to life, he 
responded to the obituary in a Facebook post reading, “I APOLOGIZE FOR BEING DEAD especially to those who have already bought tickets to the upcoming talks, but, Va-riety has announced my demise. Don’t believe their retrac-tion and apology!”
Death is a scary, frightening prospect.  For a man of Gil-
liam’s age — 74, if we’re counting — to dismiss it with a chuckle and a shrug is admirable, and there’s something to be said for it. 
For being a good sport about his eventual date with his 
maker, Terry Gilliam gets a crassly animated, clip-art 
styled Laurel.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan
 Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
A few weeks ago, my poor, 
innocent mother asked me the dreaded ques-tion: “What is Tumblr?”  Considering how long 
the blogging platform has been around, it’s odd that we had avoid-ed talking about it up until this point. I walked her through the ba-sics, but I felt bad when I left her unprepared for the things she might stumble upon when browsing the site for scrapbook-ing ideas.
If you have never used Tumblr, it’s actu-
ally pretty similar to the rest of the Internet. 
You click on one link, or walk down one dark alleyway, aaaaaand there’s sex. Not all of it is smutty and ﬁ  lthy — although one time, and I kid you not, I read a story in which the Hog-warts castle and a giant squid had a love af-fair — a lot of it is actually very helpful, such as the myriad social justice blogs and sexual 
educators that use the site.
Sometimes, you stumble upon the per-
fect mix of the two. Enter a new Tumblr 
blog, “How To Make Me Come,” which is described by its creators as “a collection of anonymous essays by women talking about female orgasm.” 
They go on to say that “the female orgasm 
can sometimes be challenging to achieve 
and/or talk about, but it goes beyond that. 
When we talk about female orgasm, some-thing deeper is at play — for one, the soci-etal assessment and conversation of female sexuality; the consequences of which bleed into the areas of our lives far outside the bed-room.”
Can I get a hell yeah?In the interest of full disclosure, I’m a 
big fan of this. Resources like this are ultra-important because they reinforce a few key things about sex, among them being that 
female pleasure is important. You can’t tell, 
but I’m side-eyeing all the partners who con-sider sex to be done as soon as they get theirs, even when their ladies sitting there afterward thinking, “So do I just leave now, or…?”
Also notable is the scope of the blog. 
When you’re as open about sex as I am, sometimes you’ll get questions like, “What sex position do girls like the most?” or “How do girls want to be asked out?” As much as I’d like to imagine I have a crown 
on my head that reads, “delegate 
for the female gender,” — imply-ing that I can speak for all women — I don’t.
To the surprise and horror of 
many, women are capable of in-
dependent thought and have individualized expectations or desires.
The blog has 72 posts so far, meaning 
there are 72 different accounts of how or-gasms happen or how they don’t. It’d be pretty boring if all 72 posts said, “I’d like ﬁ  ve minutes of oral, and then I’d like you to ﬁ  nger me with only the index ﬁ  nger, and then we can have sex for 10 minutes and 23 seconds.”
It comes down to this: Humans, and 
subsequently their orgasms and sexual pref-erences, are so varied they can’t be encom-
passed by a one-size-ﬁ  ts-all answer. Asking 
a female friend how to make your girlfriend feel good isn’t going to yield results as good as just asking your girlfriend.
And, although this column has focused on 
female pleasure, the conversation is a two-way street. Both partners need to take interest and care about what gets the other off.
If there’s a lesson to take away from this 
column, it’s that partners need to talk to each other. Actually talk to the person you’re hav-ing sex with — I know, a conversation isn’t what you’re looking for in a one-night stand, but hear me out.
It can be a simple, “Does that feel good? 
Is that pressure okay? Do you like it when I do this?” It can get more complex, like ask-ing your partner to masturbate so you can see 
ﬁ  rst-hand what feels good to them. But ulti-
mately, it’s worth it. I guarantee, if you make them feel good, they’re going to want to make you feel just as good (if not better) in return.
Check it out for yourself at howtomakem-
ecome.tumblr.com. 
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays. How to make me come: by askingColumn
In the current news cycle, the 
issue of immigration is drawing more attention than usual. This is partly due to what is going on in our own country, namely, our 
upcoming presidential election. It 
doesn’t help that the current GOP frontrunner is the most explicitly nativist public ﬁ  gure since Daniel Day-Lewis’ character in “Gangs of New York.”
Despite Americans’ woes, the real immi-
gration crisis is taking place in Europe. Many of these refugees ﬂ  ooding Europe are ﬂ  eeing 
Syria, which is four years deep into a civil war 
that has killed more than 70,000 civilians and has reduced the country to apocalyptic levels of destruction. So far, it’s estimated that 4 mil-lion Syrians have left their homes and become refugees, their fates at the mercy of foreign governments. Between President Assad — who literally drops barrels full of explosives on suburbs — and the Islamic State, can you 
blame them? Many individuals in potential 
host countries have no problem with the idea of taking in a few refugees from the nastiest war of the 21st century.  
With the rise in immigrants and refugees 
from the Middle East and Africa, there has come a response in the form of strong, vitriolic anti-immigrant sentiment in all countries af-fected. This general anti-immigrant sentiment 
has inspired acts of violence and spawned 
populist right-wing hate groups all across the continent.
Their hatred has manifested in rather nasty 
ways, like when a Hungarian news camera-woman was ﬁ  lmed tripping refugees and their children.
The anti-immigrant/refugee rhetoric that 
fuels these actions is blatantly hateful. Charg-
es that immigrants don’t assimilate, or that 
they’re criminals stealing jobs from native citi-zens, are plainly misguided. Assimilation is a matter of time; it wasn’t that long ago when Americans did not consider the Irish, Ger-mans, Italians or Poles to be white.  What makes all of this disturb-
ing is the potential a large group of such motivated people has. Far-right populist groups and political parties have been popping up all 
over Europe recently, with the is-
sue of immigration acting as the driving motor in their rhetoric and recruitment. 
These are groups like Pegida 
in Germany and Generation Iden-
titaire in France. I’d prefer not to call them Nazis, and I would refrain from doing so if they didn’t so gleefully make that association 
themselves. All of these groups have resur-
rected the old-fashioned Nazi salute. Pegida’s leader, Lutz Bachmann, was caught playing dress up as Adolf Hitler and had to resign the group. He has since been readmitted. The ar-sonists in Germany chanted “foreigners out” and “heil Hitler” while the asylum centers burned. All of them love to talk about na-tional purity and how it is being threatened 
by a sinister, conniving and dangerous ethnic 
intruder. Sound familiar?
Fortunately, these remain extreme ele-
ments. Counter-protesters at their demonstra-tions far outnumber the Nazis themselves. But what will happen if their views gain momen-tum?
As for us, we’re not immune.Anti-immigrant rhetoric and attitudes are 
not uncommon among our own countrymen. I’m not implying that anyone wary of immi-grants is a Nazi, but the sentiment is danger-ous and is one economic collapse away from morphing into something truly foul. Hell, most of the Trumpster’s campaign is stoking our deep-seated fears, molding himself into something akin to a sans-uniform Mussolini.
And while protesters spew with their rhet-
oric and torch buildings, millions more suffer in conditions unimaginable to most. The least we should do is offer them a place to stay.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.Anti-immigration activists provoke 
immigration crisis in Europe Column
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
ABOVE LEFT:
Jessica Diaz, a 21-year-old UF 
civil engineering student, waits in line for her share of fried plan-tains. She also participated in making her own mola, a tradition-al work of art from Panama. “It’s a giraffe, ” Diaz said.
TOP RIGHT:
Ashley Dene’e conveys her views on society’s urgent need for change through spoken word on Thursday night. “We want our city back, ” she said, hoping to highlight social issues, such as women’s rights and civil rights, while working to create a better community.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Stephanie Norman (right), a 27-year-old UF ecological res-toration student, dances with Maria Guijarro, a postdoctoral associate at the Orthopedics Re-habilitation Center, at the Harn Museum. “I really enjoyed learn-ing how to dance salsa as well as the other performances taking place tonight, ” Norman said.
The movie “En el Nombre de la Hija, ” directed by Ecuadorian ﬁ  lmmaker T ania Hermida, plays in the Harn’s auditorium on  Thursday for the 11th Gainesville Latino Film Festival. The drama ﬁ  lm follows the life of a young girl who tries to learn from the mistakes of past generations for a better tomorrow.
The 11th Gainesville Latino Film Festival started Thurs-day during Museum Nights at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. The festival, which 
showcases artistic and educational ﬁ  lms by or about Latino culture, will continue until Sept. 30. 
Thursday’s event celebrated wom-
en in ﬁ  lm and included a variety of events ranging from salsa dancing to spoken word and even arts and 
crafts. 
Photos by Andrea CornejoTHERE WERE 32               
COSTUMES.
By Elena Castello
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cheyenne Daly danced down 
the stage, ﬂ  aunting her ﬂ  apper cos-
tume.
Beaded accents and glittering 
adornments caught the lights of the stage as she shimmied through tables of women.
It was one of 32 costumes Daly 
and other members of Taylor Girls, a time-period costume-modeling company, wore Thursday morn-ing as part of a fashion show at the 
Gainesville Woman’s Club. 
The event was designed to raise 
money for the Climb for Cancer 
Foundation and the oncofertility 
program at UF, which aims to help 
women understand fertility options before going through chemothera-py.
The models’ outﬁ  ts spanned 500 
years of time-period costumes, with each model embodying a character — a suffragette, a ﬂ  apper, Queen Victoria, Elizabeth Blackwell and 
Marie Curie among the more rec-
ognizable — as they walked to highlight the causes. An audience of about 85, which included Climb 
for Cancer Foundation co-founders 
Ron and Dianne Farb, watched and applauded as they sipped tea and ate puff pastries.  
“Oh, this is great,” Daly, a 
20-year-old Santa Fe nursing junior said. “I love it, especially since it’s a fundraiser.”
This was the ﬁ  rst time Taylor 
Girls partnered with the two local organizations to fundraise.
The event raised about $5,000, 
which Ron Farb said will all be do-nated to the oncofertility program 
in hopes of furthering research and 
helping young women with fertility options before starting treatment.
“I feel fortunate to work at such 
a great university and have met all these people through my work there,” said Dr. Alice Rhoton-Vla-sak, an associate professor at the UF College of Medicine and head of 
the oncofertility program.
Farb, who lost his sister to can-
cer, said today it’s almost impos-
sible to ﬁ  nd someone whose life 
hasn’t been affected by cancer.
“Cancer is the modern-day 
plague,” Farb said. “I hate it. I’m 
committed, I’m passionate and I’ll ﬁ  ght it with every breath I take.”FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Fashion show for a 
cause, research cancer
Elena Castello / Alligator 
Linda Fuchs, UF President Kent Fuchs’ wife, walks down the runway in era clothing during a time-period 
fashion show at the Gainesville Woman’s Club on Thursday. The event raised money for the Climb for Can-cer Foundation and the oncofertility program at UF.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious at-mosphere. $425/mo includes high speed in-ternet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 352-631-0737    9-11-15-12-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-30-15-29-2
● HOUSE FOR RENT - 2927 SW 1st Ave ●
Directly across from UF Golf Coursel
4-5BR/3BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Only $1,775/month
No application fee, all pets ok.
352-258-0025
9-11-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10LIVE & ONLINE
BANKRUPTCY AUCTION
Brazilian Marble & Granite Corp.
Thurs, 9/17 10am
1820 7th Ave N, Lake Worth, FL 33461
Huge inventory of 100’s Marble & Granite 
Slabs, Machinery: Bridge Saws, Polishers, 
Routers, Toyota Forklift, Power Tls, Supplies, 
Pallet Racking, Hndlng and Whs Equip. & 
More!
Prvw: 9/16 10-3pm
10%-13%BP Live/Online -
Case #13-34872-PH
www.moeckerauctions.com
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin    9-11-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",
125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    9-11-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course 
creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
352 Inc. is looking for a rockstar admin to work 20-25 hrs/week Mon-Fri. in a fun and creative working environment. Looking for someone who is proactive, reliable and hardworking. If interested please send re-sume and schedule to lclifton@352inc.com.    9-14-15-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted Documentary Filmmaking Project
Team or individual to film and produce a documentary on the life and comeback of a veteran mma fighter, think "smashing ma-chine" meets "cinderella man", for more info email showtimesportsmngmt@gmail.com   9-18-15-6-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    9-11-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and  Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    9-11-1-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    9-11-1-15Attention  Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.
40 Pills + 4 FREE for only  $99. 
No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now  1-800-224-0305     9-11-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE FLIRTY CHAIR DANCE CLASS
This Thursday, September 17th, 6pm. The 
Lingerie Company 2614 SW 34th St. Call 
today to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    
9-17-15-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 
mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call 
Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY 
Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    9-11-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Sincerity Community Care
do you need companion care or home maker 
services for you or a loved one contact us 
at 3523010249 or sinceritycare@gmail.com    
9-17-15-5-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    9-11-1-16ATTN: CDL Drivers- Avg. $55k+/yr$2k Sign-On BonusGet The Respect You DeserveLove your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com     9-11-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on toQualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE   9-11-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Some UPS
deliveries
5 First Homeland
Security
secretary
10 Help badly?
14 Scott Turow title15 “I don’t give __”16 It may be hard to
resist
17 One in una
escuela primaria
18 Like two Tim
Lincecum games
19 Senate garment20 See 69-Across23 Country song24 __ generis25 Word with band
or toy
28 “Peace out”29 Struggling with a
choice
32 Hardly friendly
looks
34 See 69-Across36 Idaho motto word39 Theater funding
gp.
40 “... like __ not”41 See 69-Across46 Doctor with an
island of BeastFolk
47 Idée source48 Butcher’s units:
Abbr.
51 Progressive __
52 Gives birth to
54 Enjoy the bistro56 See 69-Across60 Home to many
Indians
62 Indianapolis pros63 Wrap alternative64 Staff at sea65 Food inspector’s
concern
66 Showing wear67 And68 “Hamlet” prop69 Clue for four
puzzle answers
DOWN
1 Informal chat2 Like some dips3 Symbolize4 Critter that sleeps
upside down5 Went berserk6 Screen VIP7 “Fantastic Mr.
Fox” author
8 Breakfast side9 Speak with
passion
10 Start to focus?11 Bully12 Frittata base13 Leaves in a bag21 Interim software
phase
22 Digital band26 Great Seal word
27 Strategic
European river of
1914
30 Former Quebec
premierLévesque
31 Arms control subj.33 Land with “her
back towardsBritain, her faceto the West,” in aWilliam Drennanpoem
34 Brood
35 Not fancy at all
36 Miss Megley’s
charge, in a
Salinger story37 Chocolate-and-
toffee bar
38 Layered dessert
42 Waimea Bay
locale
43 Easy things to
overlook
44 Diner’s need45 Slowpoke’s
place
48 Creator of Meg,
Jo, Beth andAmy49 Flat-topped
formations
50 Places53 Seller’s supply55 Freshen, as a
drink
57 Stable diet58 Giants manager
before Bochy
59 “__ be all right”60 Juice unit61 ESPN reporter
Paolantonio
By Patti Varol©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/11/1509/11/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 11, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health ServicesFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 Headline
Story description Pg#FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
The Florida volleyball team 
defeated Eastern Washington 3-1 to open play in the Outrigger Resorts Volleyball Challenge in Hawaii. Read the full story online.Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics. Florida men's golf team tees off season
The Florida men's golf team begins its Fall season today at the Carpet Capital 
Collegiate in Dalton, Georgia. The Gators have four freshmen in their five 
player lineup as they head to The Farm Golf Club course. Florida finished in 13th place out of 14 teams last year in the tournament. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks out of the tunnel prior to Florida's 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium.
Grier to start as Florida hosts East Carolina
We’re one week into the 2015 college football season and  we here at the alligatorS-ports Brand Picks Column are ready for the excitement 
to continue.
Florida actually showed it knows 
what the term "offense" means last week and is looking to continue that trend on Saturday against East Carolina.
The Swamp had more than 90,000 
pack the stands and fans who left early did so with a smile on their face instead of out of frustration.
Whether or not Jim McElwain and 
Co. can continue to make dazzling plays is to be determined, but the energy is bound to be plentiful on Saturday.
Debating the first game of the week 
— tonight’s matchup between Utah State and No. 24 Utah, nicknamed the "Battle of the Brothers" — is alligatorS-ports assistant editor Luis Torres and al-ligatorSports staff writer Graham Hack. 
Utah (-12.5) will beat the Aggies 
because.. 
Did you watch the Utes’ season 
opener against Jim Harbaugh’s Michi-gan Wolverines? That defense crushed the hopes of Michigan fans before the first Saturday of the year even took place. This is clearly a team that will be a factor in the Pac 12 this season. Also, Utah owns Utah State. The Utes have beaten the Aggies in 13 of their last 14 meetings dating back to 1998. And for extra measure, it’s a home game for Utah, and Salt Lake City will be rocking after last week’s victory. There’s no way Utah doesn’t win this by fewer than two touchdowns.
-Graham Hack
Utah State (+12.5) will beat the 
Utes because…
First of all, this is a rivalry game, so 
everything that you just said goes out 
the window. Rivalry games tend to be unpredictable and this one should be no different. The two teams didn’t meet last year and while Utah has dominated the rivalry lately, I’m going to go out on PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN2 / 95.3 FM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
SOCCER
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
The first game of the Gators’ Southeastern 
Conference schedule did not go as planned. 
Under the Thursday night lights of Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium, the No. 10 Florida soccer 
team (4-2, 0-1 SEC) suffered a 2-1 loss to No. 
6 Texas A&M (6-1, 1-0 SEC) in a battle of the 
conference’s top two teams. 
Miscommunication and mental mistakes plagued the Gators throughout the game. Coach Becky Burleigh’s team mistimed passes 
on all parts of the field, and turnovers from the 
defense deep in the Aggies’ territory combined with a lack communication between the back line and redshirt junior goalkeeper Valerie Tysinger led to TAMU’s score seven minutes into the game.
Following a mistimed header attempt by 
midfielder Lauren Smith to push the ball for-ward outside the 18-yard box, TAMU forward 
Emily Bates out-jumped a leaping Tysinger to 
head the ball into the back of the net.Following a UF mental mistake, Texas 
A&M narrowly missed on converting a scoring 
opportunity into its second goal of the game.
In the 24th minute, Tysinger and a Gators’ 
defender both went for a ball about 10 yards 
beyond the box. In their attempt to clear the threat, they collided, and the loose ball popped to an unmarked Aggie. The Gators, however escaped the situation unscathed.
Throughout the game, pressure from the 
Aggies’ high-powered offense troubled the Mistakes prove costly in UF's loss to Texas A&MBy Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
The Gators take on the East 
Carolina Pirates for the second 
time in nine months on Satur-
day night in The Swamp, but 
they will do so with a different starting quarterback.Redshirt freshman Will Grier 
will take the first snap in the 
contest for Florida, the school 
announced on Thursday. 
Coach Jim McElwain has 
said all week that he will use 
a similar rotation to the season 
opener, when sophomore Treon Harris started but Grier played extensively. Both quarterbacks will likely 
play roughly the same amount 
of time again, just in a different 
order.
“I’m not sure the exact pitch 
count,” McElwain said Monday. 
“It worked out a little bit, we 
tried to sit in kind of that three series, 12 to 15 reps, go from there, and it’s just kind of in the flow of the game how it works.”
Harris went 14-of-19 against 
New Mexico State on Saturday for 215 yards and two touch-downs, while Grier went 16 of 18 for 166 yards and three total 
touchdowns — two passing and 
one rushing.
Going into this week’s game, 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16a limb and say Utah State beats the 
Utes tonight, picking up its second win in the last 15 meetings between the two. Quarterback Chuckie 
Keeton is back for the Aggies and 
the rust is off of him. He’ll have a 
huge night in the upset of the week. 
-Luis Torres
Now onto the picks!
In first place sitting at 6-1-1 is 
Gator Country’s Nick “Fashioni-
sta” de la Torre, who for some odd reason was deemed the most fash-ionable member of the UF media contingent at Monday’s McElwain media session. We don’t see it, Nick, but we’ll give credit where credit is due. Now if only your sock game was stronger...
In second with a 5-2-1 mark 
is alligatorSports editor Graham “Slacker” Hall, who decided to go to a concert and skip out on a night of work. We’re not all that surprised, though, given that you only show up to about half of the media avail-abilities during the week.  Also in second is Alligator man-
aging/online editor Jordan “Can I have a ride?” McPherson, who seemingly hitchhikes everywhere — to class, media, you name it. C’mon dude, with enough Mario Kart prac-tice, I’m sure you can pass that driv-ing test.
Rounding out the three-way tie 
for second is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “Scared Stiff” Thompson, who thought he was about to join 
Demarcus Robinson on the third 
team after Jim McElwain got fired up during Wednesday’s presser. Calm down Edgar, your second-
string spot behind Mark Long is still 
safe.
In fifth with a 4-3-1 record is al-
ligatorSports assistant editor Luis 
“Look at da flickada wrist” Torres, 
who while playing basketball yells 
Chedda Da Connect’s song with ev-ery shot he takes. Hey Luis, if you focused as much on your shot as 
you did on Golden Retrievers, your 
pickup basketball skills might actu-
ally be semi-decent.
Tied with Luis for fifth is the 
Palm Beach Post’s Anthony “Ken-
dall’s finest” Chiang, who tweeted quotes from actual Miami native, 
Florida receiver C.J. Worton, in an attempt to relate and further muddy the lines between unincorporated Kendall and the city of Miami. Truth is Jim ‘Missoula’ McElwain’s sock-less feet are more Miami than Chi-ang will ever be.
And now, we have a two-way tie 
for dead-ass-last, both sporting piss-poor records of 3-4-1.
First is alligatorSports staff writ-
er Graham “Polo and basketball shorts” Hack, who decided to wear a yellow polo with black basketball 
shorts to Wednesday’s media ses-
sion. Hey Graham, does your mom 
pick out your outfit for you when you wake up every morning? It’s time for you to grow up and start 
dressing like a normal 21-year-old.  
Joining him at the bottom of the 
picks totem pole is 247sports.com’s 
Thomas “Is it in yet?” Goldkamp 
who is always asking us if our por-
tion of transcribing coach Jim McEl-
wain is in to him yet. Hey Thomas, some of us like Graham Hack need about two hours to transcribe two 
minutes worth of audio. So can you 
let him get just a bit more time? FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
PICKS,  from pg 14
Harris has the advantage of hav-
ing already faced East Carolina in the Birmingham Bowl on Jan. 3. 
He started that contest, 
throwing for 123 yards, two touchdowns and one intercep-
tion on 5-of-11 passing in a 28-
20 Florida victory.
But there has been a lot of 
turnover within the Pirates since 
that game. 
They only return six starters 
on offense and five on defense, 
and they have a new offensive coordinator.
The biggest challenge the Pi-
rates will pose to the Gators will be on the offensive side of the ball.
Last season, East Carolina 
finished the season ranked third in the nation in passing yards, averaging 371.9 per game.
The Pirates suffered a heavy 
blow when Kurt Benkert, the team’s starter, suffered a sea-son-ending knee injury just be-fore the start of the season, but there will still be plenty of offen-sive threats to test the Gators’ 
defense.
“They’re physical, they fly 
around and play with a lot of 
speed,” McElwain said. “When 
you look at them offensively, 
they’re a team that’s not going to come in here at all and be wowed by the Florida Gators.”
While having some familiar-
ity with their opponents will be advantageous for the play-ers who were a part of the bowl 
game, Florida’s players realize 
it’s going to be a different chal-lenge entirely.
“It helps,” senior defensive 
lineman Bryan Cox Jr. said, “but there’s probably going to be a lot of different things we 
haven’t seen before that we’re 
gonna see.”
Aiding Florida’s defense will 
be the additions of defensive 
lineman Alex McCalister and 
safety Marcus Maye, who both return from one-game suspen-sions.
“They better have fresh legs,” 
McElwain said. “We’ll play a lot 
of guys. I think they found, as 
they were able to watch, that life moved on. Sometimes that’s the greatest lesson that any of 
us can learn. Maybe that’ll put 
a little fire in their tank.”
Safety Keanu Neal, who 
missed the opener with a leg in-jury, has a decent shot to play as 
well against the Pirates. 
The junior practiced Wednes-
day for the first time in nearly 
three weeks, and McElwain has 
labeled him as questionable.
On offense, the Gators will 
still be without offensive line-
man Martez Ivey, who had ar-throscopic surgery on his left 
knee and is still a week away 
from returning to the lineup ac-cording to McElwain, as well as wide receiver Latroy Pittman, 
whose suspension from the 
opener is still ongoing.FOOTBALL,  from pg 14Florida defeated ECU 
in the Birmingham 
Bowl in January
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
ECU vs. UF (-20)  UF  UF  UF  UF
Ore vs. Mich St (-3.5)  MICH  ORE  MICH  ORE
LSU (-3) vs. Miss St  LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU
Okla at T enn (split)  OKLA  TENN  TENN  OKLAUGA (-19.5) at Vandy  UGA  UGA   UGA  UGA
USF at FSU (-27.5)  USF  FSU  USF  FSUFres St at Miss (-28.5)  MISS  MISS  FRES  FRES
UK at SCar (-7.5)  SCAR  SCAR  SCAR  SCAR
  ET  AC  ND  TG
ECU vs. UF (-20)  UF  UF  UF  UF
Ore vs. Mich St (-3.5)  ORE  ORE  ORE  ORE
LSU (-3) vs. Miss St  LSU  MISS  LSU                   LSU
Okla at T enn (split)  OKLA  OKLA  TENN  TENNUGA (-19.5) at Vandy  UGA  UGA   VANDY  UGA
USF at FSU (-27.5)  FSU  USF  FSU  USFFres St at Miss (-28.5)  MISS  MISS  MISS  MISS
UK at SCar (-7.5)  UK  UK  Uk  UK“When you look at them 
offensively, they're a team 
that's not going to come in 
here at all and be wowed by 
the Florida Gators.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
defense, leading to poor passing and mental 
errors from the back line. 
“Their offense stemmed from the pressure 
they put on us,” senior defender Christen Westphal said. “That pressure caused us to 
make the mistakes.”
Despite the amount of pressure TAMU put 
on the Gators, it only outshot UF ﬁ  ve to four 
in the ﬁ  rst half.
It didn’t let up, however, as Texas A&M 
put Florida on its heels defensively to begin the second half. 
Seven minutes into the ﬁ  nal 45, Texas A&M scored on a deﬂ  ection off Tysinger, who saved the original attempt.
“It deﬁ  nitely brings you down a level to 
where you’re kind of like ‘We could have deﬁ  nitely prevented that’,” Westphal said. 
The beginning of the second half was qui-
et for the Gators.
The offense couldn’t manage a shot until 
the 71st minute, when junior forward Savan-nah Jordan sent a low shot to the left near post that was snagged by TAMU goalie Tay-lor Saucier.
This marked a momentum shift for Flor-
ida.
Just six minutes later, Jordan scored the 
Gators’ ﬁ  rst and only goal of the night.Freshman midﬁ  elder Mayra Pelayo sent a 
ball towards Jordan, with the pass ﬁ  nding the keeper’s hands.
Subsequently, the goalie lost control of the 
ball, causing it to fall at Jordan’s feet and giv-ing her the easy opportunity on goal. 
Less than ﬁ  ve minutes later, Florida cre-
ated two serious goal-scoring threats, but the Gators couldn’t convert. Following halftime, a change in formation 
from a 4-5-1 to a 3-5-2 — a more aggressive offensive strategy — sparked UF’s offense. 
“When I have Brooke Sharp or another 
forward up there with me, it’s deﬁ  nitely a lot 
easier in a way,” Jordan said.
The momentum shift, though, was not 
enough for Florida to score again and cap-
ture a tie as the Aggies snapped the Gators' 15 game home winning streak.  
Simply put, the Gators didn’t execute the 
way they wanted to against the Aggies. 
Becky Burleigh is well aware of that fact. “I would hate to see what our pass-com-
pletion rate for tonight was," Burleigh said. "I’m sure it was pretty poor.”SOCCER,  from pg 14TAMU snapped UF's 15 game home-match winning streak
“Their ofense stemmed from the 
pressure they put on us. That pressure 
caused us to make the mistakes.”
Christen Westphal 
UF senior defenderFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
