We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 9 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
UF soccer’s back line leading the 
way
UF has given up just ﬁ  ve goals in four games,
pg 13.
UF oﬀ  ers ﬁ  rst bilingual course 
It is for horticulture students and farmers, pg. 3
Animal shelters say new semester sparks pet 
adoptions
Shelters also explain the option to foster, pg. 8Check out the Avenue
Read a preview of Peter and the Starcatcher 
pg. 9-12
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
Mayor Ed Braddy and a group of students from the Caring and Sharing Learning School stand on the site of 
the newly renovated Depot Park. “There will be a playground the size of a football ﬁ  eld for you all to enjoy. We do these things for you and the whole community, ” Braddy said during his speech.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
A new Gainesville park just 
got one step closer to completion.
At an event Wednesday morn-
ing, officials broke the ground for 
the development of Depot Park, 
a new six-acre park in the 200th 
block of Southeast Depot Avenue. The park, which will cost about $6 million to build, is expected to open in Fall 2016.
“It’s exciting to see it emerge out of the ground,” said Gainesville Mayor Ed Braddy.
Braddy was one of several 
speakers who attended the event, in addition to about 250 guests. There were also local vendors and musical performances.
By the time he spoke toward 
the end, all of the details had been covered, Braddy said, but he wanted to be a part of it. The 
creation of the park was a mas-
sive project, he said.
Once completed, Depot Park 
will be the largest in Gainesville, featuring a 24-foot-wide prome-nade that wraps around the north 
side of the pond, which will be 
used for food truck rallies and art festivals. There will also be a large green space, children’s play area, a splash pad that shoots water out of the ground and a picnic pavilion, said Cindi Harvey, project manager for the Gainesville Community Redevel-
opment Agency.
“We’re excited,” she said. 
“It’s going to be a great amenity 
for the public.”
“We want to build a great 
park, and we want it to last for a GNV park almost completedSENATE
HE IS THE 22ND PERSON 
ARRESTED IN THE OPERATION.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff Deputies arrested 
another man in connection with Operation 
Panther on Tuesday afternoon. 
About 5:25 p.m. Tuesday, Scott Michael Henson, 31, reportedly spoke with an un-dercover ofﬁ  cer, whom he thought was a 
13-year-old girl, through email, text mes-
sages and phone calls, according to a police report. 
The arrest occurred roughly three hours 
after a press conference, where Gainesville 
Police ofﬁ  cers announced the conclusion of 
Operation Panther, a ﬁ  ve-day undercover operation designed to identify people who solicit sex with minors. Henson couldn’t meet 
until Tuesday, so authori-
ties arrested him after the 
conference, GPD spokes-man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Henson sent descriptive 
messages about what he would do to the girl, ac-
cording to the report.
He told the ofﬁ  cer, who was posing as the girl, they could form a secret relationship, de-spite mentioning several times he was wor-
ried about going to prison, according to the 
report.
Henson, an Ocala resident, drove with a 
suspended driver’s license to the meeting, ac-cording to the report. 
Deputies arrested Henson on two charges 
of obscene communication and a charge of unlawful use of a two-way communication device.Another man arrested in GPD undercover sting operation By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
While some students who 
walked into the Reitz Union knew which Student Govern-
ment Party they were going to 
run, or slate, with in the Fall 2015 elections, Anneke Wenzel remained uncertain.
The 19-year-old recently 
transferred to UF from Gulf Coast State College in Panama City. 
“I want to spend today talk-
ing to the parties,” the bio-chemistry junior said.
On Tuesday, UF SG began 
the interview process for stu-
dents looking to qualify for the 
Fall 2015 elections to fill 50 UF Student Senate seats based on students’ residential locations. 
Students can register with 
Access Party, with Impact Party or as an independent candidate. 
At the end of the day, 50 
students slated with Impact, 
13 with Access and one as in-
dependent, UF Supervisor of Elections Sam Book wrote in an email. 
During the Fall 2014 elec-
tions, the first day of slating saw a record-low turnout with only 11 students slating with Swamp Party. 
No students slated with 
Swamp Party this semester, a majority party formed in 2012. Swamp didn’t register for 
slating, and many Swamp sena-
tors have publicly expressed 
their support for Impact and say 
they are planning to switch. 
Impact Party President Chris 
Boyett said Impact is not a re-
branding of Swamp Party. 
To qualify to slate, students 
must be full-time students, have 
proof of residency and show 
their UFID, Book said.
Students must prove their 
residency by providing either 
certified mail delivered by post-al service, an Alachua County voter registration card, an origi-nal copy of a lease, an original 
copy of a utility or cable bill 
prior to qualifying, an original copy of a promissory note or a lease from a fraternity or so-rority house, an original copy 
of homeowner’s insurance, or 
an original copy of a warranty deed.
Slating continues today from 
noon to 8 p.m., Friday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
In the Spring, 37 students 
qualified and slated on the first SG Slating to
continue today
SEE SLATING,  PAGE 5It will cost $6 million
SEE DEPOT,  PAGE 5
Henson
“I want to spend the 
day talking to the 
parties.”
Anneke Wenzel
UF biochemistry juniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-
tidisciplinary clinic at the UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dat-
ing and sexual violence. The 
program provides free and con-fidential legal representation, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigra-tion and restraining orders for the protection against domestic violence. The program also has 
a social worker who specializes 
in intimate partner violence, and provides counseling to cli-ents. Last, the programs victim advocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 
352-273-0805 or email drake@
law.ufl.edu.
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
ComedyFree stand-up comedy fea-tures UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at 
Market Street Pub and Cabaret 
in downtown. The show fea-tures professional comedians and amateur comics tearing up the stage. Feeling funny? Show up before 9 p.m. and sign up for our comedy open mic.  Comedy workshop at 8 p.m. is hosted by local pros. Visit  facebook.com/
gainesvillecomedyshowcase.
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate the 
first home football game of the season with Game Day: Swamp Chomp on Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a live magic show from magician Ran’D Shine, Stuff-A-Gator, a mechan-ical football and a headphone 
disco dance party. GatorNights 
will also host showings of the movie “Tomorrowland”  at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free barbe-cue during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
UFIC Study Abroad Fair
On September 16 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas, the UF International 
Center invites students and 
faculty to learn about current study-abroad programs. At the UF study-abroad fair, students can learn more about the vast array of study-abroad options available to them. Program di-rectors, independent program providers and former study-
abroad students will be avail-
able to share their international experiences at the fair. The UFIC staff will explain the ap-plication process and help stu-dents with the first steps to find the right program for them. For additional information about the study abroad fair, visit 
ufic.ufl.edu or contact Alexis 
Weisman at aweisman@ufic.ufl.edu.
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-
ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize win-ners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will receive $25. Total prizes will equal $525.
Submission period will be open 
until Oct. 9. For more informa-tion, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html or email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club will meet every Tuesday 
at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology 
Building, 970 Natural Area Dr., on UF's campus east of the Harn Museum. The club is open to everyone. For de-tails about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. The mis-
sion of Toastmasters is to pro-
vide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and per-sonal growth.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 110 ISSUE 9
HIGH  91° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
IT WILL APPEAL TO 
FARMERS.
By Gabriella Nuñez
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Institute of Food and Ag-
ricultural Sciences has included UF 
students in its bilingual extension course for the first time.
The four-week course is called 
Nutrient Management in Container Crops and is offered in both English and Spanish.  It’s made for farmers and those in the horticulture indus-try, who will earn a certificate upon 
completion.
The online course is offered online 
through Canvas to UF undergraduate 
and graduate horticulture students. They can earn class credits by com-bining it with other modules within the horticulture program.  However, this is the only bilingual class offered to UF students.  
“All the questions on quizzes are 
in both English and Spanish — an-swers, too,” said Anthony Timoti, a 22-year-old UF horticultural science senior.
Timoti is enrolled in the course with nine other students plus the em-
ployees and employers in the field.
 “It’s interesting,” he said, “and 
since it’s an old extension course, 
it has a unique tone and pace com-pared to other online classes I’ve had.”
The goal of the course and IFAS’s 
extension program is to make the re-search accessible to the general pub-
lic, Timoti said.
Fisher said the course is adver-
tised to local and international farm-
ers online and in magazines. 
The lectures are video-recorded 
in both English and Spanish by hus-band-and-wife duo Paul Fisher and 
Rosanna Freyre, UF  environmental 
horticulture department professors.
“Part of the mission of UF is to 
support international development and sustainability in agriculture,” Fisher said.
Close to half of the students who 
took Fisher’s summer course are from other continents, including Af-
rica, Europe, Latin America and Aus-
tralia.
Thirty-six percent of the students 
in his summer course were Spanish-speaking, he said.
Fisher said some of his students 
will apply what they learn right away.
He said he will work on integrat-
ing UF students into the short course.
“Some of (my students) speak 
Spanish,” Fisher said.  “Some of them will learn Spanish.  For people who work in horticulture, it’s a good idea to learn Spanish.”UF offers first bilingual course to horticulture students
“All the questions on quizzes 
are in both English and 
Spanish — answers, too.”
Anthony Timoti
UF horticultural science senior4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
RIGHT:
The Depot Park groundbreak-
ing ceremony featured speak-ers such as  former Gainesville  Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan. The park was contaminated with coal power-plant waste 19 years ago. An effort has been put toward the cleanup, Hanrahan said.
BELOW LEFT:
Jacques Danieles (left), an 11-year-old Caring and Sharing Learning school student, takes a selﬁ  e with Mayor Ed Braddy at Depot Park. In one year, Depot Park will open with a children’s area that will include a splash pad and  playground.
BELOW RIGHT:
Sally Adkins, Clean Water Part-nership coordinator, explains the ecosystem of Depot Park to event attendees. Before the cleanup, the pond that sits in the middle of the park used to be ﬁ  lled with coal tar.
FAR BOTTOM RIGHT:
Opening performers Bears and Lions sing an original song writ-ten for the Depot Park ground-breaking event Wednesday.
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
BREAKING GROUNDBy Gabriella Nuñez
Alligator Staff Writer
Sakai will no longer be in use 
starting Spring 2016, completing 
UF’s migration to Canvas.
The university selected Canvas 
as the new course-management system to replace Sakai in Spring 2014 for UF Online courses, wrote 
Tawnya Means, director of the Warrington College of Business 
Center for Teaching, Learning and Assessment, in an email.    
But chemistry professor James 
Horvath said he was unhappy with the switch.
“I already knew (Sakai),” he 
said. “Why did I have to learn something else?” 
Means wrote that Canvas allows 
professors to add video or audio, as well as the ability to integrate e-texts and simulations — features she said Sakai didn’t have.
 “Canvas is neater and less 
clustered,” said Zach Thomas, a 20-year-old UF history junior. “It feels like a natural step toward modernization.”
But Yaniffer Castillo said she 
doesn’t feel like there’s much of a difference.The chemistry freshman never 
used a course-management system before Summer B but had to ma-neuver both Sakai and Canvas at 
the same time.
“I really have no preference,” 
the 18-year-old said. “It’s just 
something to get used to. Every-thing is online now.”
UF history professor Steven Noll 
used Sakai for “a really long time,” he said, laughing.
Now, he said he prefers Canvas 
because it integrates better with students. It’s easier and faster to 
send messages to students, an im-
provement from Sakai.
“UF is migrating to Canvas,” 
Noll said. “It’s not necessar-ily something you want to do. It’s 
what you have to do.”THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
A PROFESSOR AND STUDENT 
WERE ARRESTED.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Senate started on 
a somber note Wednesday as members dis-
cussed the arrest of a professor and student in a recent undercover Gainesville Police opera-tion.
Kevin Brian Kasper, a 51-year-old Santa Fe 
math professor, and Eugene James Slevin, a 19-year-old Santa Fe student, were among the 22 men arrested during Operation Panther, which was conducted by the Internet Crimes Against Children task force, according to po-lice reports.
Standing before senators, a number of 
whom were unaware of the operation, Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book said there were no 
indications the college could have picked up 
on that would have signaled a problem with Kasper.
“We have people in our college community 
that do horrendous things,” Book said. “We’re a big community, and it’s going to happen.”
Still, Santa Fe Senator Manu Osorio ex-
pressed deep concern about a professor — who reportedly sent sexual messages to an 
ofﬁ  cer posing as the parent of a 14-year-old 
girl — making it through the college’s screen-ing processes and teaching on a campus with high school dual enrollment students.
“I think that needs to be addressed more 
thoroughly,” Osorio said. “Other students I’ve 
spoken to believe that the school should ad-
dress it publicly with the students. I person-ally was in (Kasper’s) class (in the spring) and I feel incredibly disgusted, knowing especially that there was a 16-year-old girl in my class.”
When a faculty or staff member commits a serious crime, Book said, Human Resources starts a process to look at and weigh how the college will respond.
“I think whatever outcome comes with 
that potential faculty member will be appro-priate,” Book said. “Obviously I have some 
insight, but I feel like it’s going to be the right 
actions.”
As for Slevin, Book said students who com-
mit serious crimes are required to go through a student conduct process.
“Regardless of what happens criminally, 
there may be actions on the college side also,” Book said. “I would suspect that in both of these cases, there’s always additional ramiﬁ  -
cations for actions like these, and I think there 
will be.” SF Senate addresses members’ involvement in GPD operation
CAMPUS
UF to migrate to Canvas completely for Spring semester
really long time.”
The master plan for the park’s de-
sign was approved in 2010 after the city bought the land — then covered in tar — from Gainesville Regional Utilities in the 
1990s.
The park pays homage to its historic 
roots with the roughly $2 million restora-
tion of a depot train car, which houses the park’s indoor facilities and was finished before Wednesday’s ceremony. The train car, Harvey said, dates back to the 1800s and was the first phase of the park’s de-velopment.
The second phase began Wednesday with the ceremonial ground breaking.
“It’s all part of the revitalization of 
downtown,” Harvey said.
Robyn Toigo, a 35-year-old stay-at-
home mom, said she thinks the refur-bished Depot Park will be a great place for families to go.
She said her 3-year-old son will enjoy 
running around on the playground equip-ment.
“He enjoys exploring and going new 
places,” she said.
Toigo said the important thing for her 
is spending time with her son, and Gaines-ville’s parks are a great place to do that.
“I couldn’t imagine missing all the 
time I get to spend with him,” she said.DEPOT,  from pg 1Ground-breaking is second phase
day, with 18 students each slating with 
Access and Swamp parties, and one who slated as an independent, according to Al-
ligator archives.
Access Party President Kalyani Hawal-
dar said she hopes as many students as 
possible participate.
Boyett said he thinks students will join 
Impact. 
Rodel Enderez, an engineering sopho-
more, slated with Access. Serving as a replacement senator dur-
ing the Summer term made him decide to slate for Fall, the 19-year-old said. He said he wanted to see what goes on in SG and make changes.
“Access has the right mindset,” Ender-
ez said.
Shannon O’Neara said she slated with 
Impact.
“I just wanted to see where my money 
was going,” the 20-year-old nutrition ju-nior said.SLATING,  from pg 164 students slated W ednesday, 
and it continues today“I think whatever outcome comes with 
that potential faculty member will be 
appropriate.”
Ed Book
Santa Fe Police ChiefThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMcDonald’s 24/7 
breakfast menu 
brings about 
exciting changes
McDonald’s: glorious American institution or Exhibit A 
in capitalism run amok? Regardless of one’s personal views on the fast-food giant, it is impossible to deny 
it does two things exceptionally well: tasty, grease-
filled breakfast foods and late-night drunken snacks. 
Since the company’s announcement of a 24/7 breakfast menu Tuesday, those two beautiful things no longer have to be mutu-
ally exclusive.
McDonald’s game-changing announcement is particularly 
important for Gainesville as well as college towns the country 
over. Drunkenly stumbling for cheap food at 1 a.m. is an impor-tant, cherished college tradition and rightfully so: It presents an 
opportunity for introspection and bonding and serves as a much-
needed opportunity to burn some calories after pounding back three Tallboys — at least, before you arrive at your destination.
Yes, there are already a number of wonderful places where 
inebriated young men and women can grab late-night grub in the Midtown area, but all of these restaurants (Relish, Italian Gator Pizza and Gator City among them) are pricier than what midnight snack runs warrant. Let he who is without sin be the first to claim they have never spent too much money drunkenly 
buying food.
The fact that the McDonald’s on the corner of 13th Street and 
University Avenue was already a 24/7 institution is irrelevant. 
What IS relevant is that they now have something no one else 
can offer: cheap, delicious breakfast food in the wee hours.
It is the hope of many here at the Alligator that this innova-
tion kick-starts a market revolution in the late-night Gainesville 
eatery game. As Ron Swanson would attest, competitive markets are the blood that pumps the cold, capitalist heart that is the 
American economy. All things willing, the lower prices offered 
by McDonald’s will cause a chain reaction, forcing late-night fa-vorites like Relish to offer counters like fried eggs at a discounted price — McDonald’s for run-of-the-mill nights of debauchery, 
Relish for payday.
However, this exciting development doesn’t mean it’s al-
ways rainbows and butterflies — after all, it’s compromise that 
moves us along. With the increased consumption of McGriddles and hash browns, which is no doubt going to occur, it’s going 
to fall on us as a community to take better care of our bodies. 
Gainesville is a good-looking city, and it would be irresponsible of us to allow our love of disgustingly tasty midnight breakfast foods to overcome our love of being really, really ridiculously 
good-looking.
Change is inevitable, but it’s how we cope with change that 
defines us. In this case, it means working that much harder 
when hitting the gym on a hung-over Sunday morning. Forget about leg days; with the glorious new dawn of 24/7 McGriddles 
upon us, it’s going to be nothing but full body from here on out.Walls do not provide immigration permanent fix 
Illegal immigration has been a constant talk-
ing point of recent election cycles. But what was usually reserved as a single debate ques-tion late into the general election has become a front-and-center issue within the GOP pri-
mary. From the Great Wall of Trump to the more empathetic Bush, we are seeing the big-tent party hosting many opinions on this single issue.
Every candidate has about the same rough 
sketch of a strategy on how to handle our bor-ders. It usually involves building a big wall, investing more money in U.S. ICE and border patrol, and pushing comprehensive immigration reform to a later date.
This is where most of the similarities end. Some argue 
for the mass deportation of millions of people, while others have called for an amnesty-like policy that is, somehow, not actual amnesty. The desire for the former has only in-creased with Donald Trump talking up strategies, like re-moving the 14th Amendment, as well as calling for the deportation of an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.
I don’t plan on offering a nuanced criticism of Trump’s 
immigration “plan,” as anyone with a basic understanding of the Constitution can see its flaws. Instead, I want to look 
at how the proposed solutions to the border would be costly 
and ultimately ineffective in comparison to actual compre-hensive immigration reform.
First, let’s look at the wall. So far, the specifications 
made by the Republican front-runner would hold that it has to be big and possibly have a door in it. The border be-tween the U.S. and Mexico is roughly 2,000 miles. Building a 2,000-mile wall would not only require massive amounts of materials, labor and capital, but as we have seen with the 
barriers currently in place, they are ineffective. So, that’s a 
no go. President Bush’s Secure Fence Act of 2006 called for the building of a fence that, upon completion, ultimately proved ineffective in stemming the flow of immigration, evidenced by the fact that I’m writing this article in the first place.
What escapes the grasp of many is the terrain of the 
border. Borders do not usually derive from actual geo-graphic stops and starts in nature, but rather from arbitrarily drawn lines on maps. The fence built after 2006 faced this problem and did not fare well against the geographic realities of the U.S.-Mexico border. Among the many blunders 
that large fences and walls face are hills that are 
not easily built upon. Another feature that hin-ders these proposed grandiose fences and walls are towns that literally fall on the border. These highly dense populations live right next to a fence, which makes guarding the border difficult.
On the subject of increasing border patrol, no candi-
date has yet to acknowledge the steep fee that hiring more guards would incur. In an age where programs are cut due 
to costs, somehow increasing the number of border patrol 
officers does not seem to be a wise move.
The main issue with the conservative argument for se-
curing our border is that it attempts to fix only symptoms of a larger problem: our broken immigration system. Contrary to the beliefs of many on the right, most immigrants are not coming over here to commit crimes or rape women — they are here because they see the U.S. as an opportunity. Even laborers who are not paid close to minimum wage still 
make more than what they would earn in Mexico or the 
other Latin American countries they emigrate from.
People do not cross deserts with human smugglers or 
drug cartels just because they do not want to wait for a Visa to travel here and work. These are human beings that have been failed by their native governments. If we started talking about comprehensive immigration reform instead of how to deal with anchor babies, we would not need walls.
The U.S. is unique in that it is composed primarily of 
immigrant lineage. Candidates who deal primarily in fear mongering about illegal immigrants stealing your job, wal-let, welfare or wife should not be listened to. These are people who lack the basic decency of comprehending the human element of the issue and do not deserve a seat any-where near the White House.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Letter to the Editor
In response to Monday’s column, “Greek life 
is more than just its stereotypes”
Marisa Papenfuss’ defense of Greek life is upset-
tingly ignorant of its deep-seated racism. 
The SAE chant was not an isolated incident. 
Frats and sororities are a microcosm of white su-
premacy in America: quietly exclusionary. 
It is unspoken and probably not even realized 
by many, but elite organizations are for white people, and because connections are so impor-tant to enter them, they are self -perpetuating.  
For example, as of 2014, University of Alabama so-rorities had admitted exactly one black student. 
Unsurprisingly, Greek organizations don’t release 
their racial demographics, but if UF chapters’ own 
Facebook photos are any indication, they are very 
white. 
Indeed I came across pictures of events with 
scores of members with nary a black person. 
I’d venture to say that you’re more likely to find 
someone in blackface than a black person at many houses.
Alex Posa  
Gainesville resident
Recently, Re-
publicans have developed  something of an image prob-
lem. In a poll taken by the Washington Post and ABC in the weeks following the 2012 elec-tion, the party was de-scribed by 53 percent of Americans as being “unconcerned with the welfare of the people, particularly those in the lower and 
middle income levels.”
One of the reasons for this per-
ception is the comments by Re-
publican candidates about their considerable personal wealth. This creates the impression that they cannot relate to the trials and chal-lenges faced by lower income and middle-class individuals, as well 
as making them appear unsympa-
thetic to the financial challenges faced by those in the lower rungs of society. Recent developments in the Republican primary race, and data released by the Camping Finance Institute, have done little to convince the American people otherwise.
During the last election, Re-
publicans chose Mitt Romney, a wealthy white business man, as their candidate. 
This choice confirmed the per-
ception that the Republican Party was simply a party run by “rich autocrats.” Romney ran during 
a time of slow econom-ic growth when many Americans were unem-ployed and the average 
worker was struggling 
financially. His consid-erable wealth made him seem ignorant of the struggles of the average worker, eventually cost-
ing him the popular vote. 
One would think the party 
would be invested in changing the perception that it only cares about the rich. Unfortunately, this problem remains unsolved. The most visible evidence is Donald Trump’s continued dominance in the Republican candidacy race. His dominance establishes him as a major force in the party, meaning 
he is invariably associated closely 
with the Republican Party by the public, for better or worse. Trump is perpetuating the impression that the Republican Party is unsympa-thetic toward the middle class and the poor. 
If Republicans continue to per-
petuate the idea that they are sim-
ply rich individuals who cannot 
relate and sympathize with middle- and low-income individuals, they risk alienating a large percentage of voters who are suffering through hard times. 
A version of this column origi-
nally ran in the Daily Utah Chron-icle.Republican Candidates fail 
to relate to middle classUWire
Evan T eng
UWire8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Some students beginning a new semester at UF have a hard 
time saying goodbye to their parents, and others struggle with 
leaving their pets behind.
According to animal shelters in Alachua County, adoption 
numbers increase considerably during the first weeks of the 
Fall semester. Lindsey Hidenrite, the cat coordinator at Help-
ing Hands Pet Rescue in Gainesville, said most people adopt-ing at this time are new and old students who have arrived in Gainesville for classes.
“A lot of college students that adopt are (doing so) because 
they finally live in a pet-friendly place,” she wrote in an email. “Quite a few are new students as well, missing their pets back home.”
Hidenrite added that the shelter also sees an increase in fos-
ter home availability.
“Fostering is a great way for college students to have a pet in 
the home without the financial commitment of having a pet,” she wrote.
Hidenrite explained the shelter provides supplies and medi-
cal care for the foster pet. The owner would give the foster pet rides to vet appointments and adoption events. 
Pet fostering could provide a solution to the problem Minna 
Stubina, adoptions counselor at Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue in 
Haile Plantation, often notices.
“We do see an increase in pet adoptions in the fall,” she said. 
“And the students always want a puppy or a kitten.”
Stubina explained that she often has to have a stern talk with 
the adoption hopefuls who don’t realize raising a baby animal 
is a huge responsibility.
“I don’t want to see (the puppies and kittens) back in the 
spring,” she said. “In that case, they usually have no training, they can barely walk on a leash and they’re all over the place.”
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
Callie, a 4-year-old cat, leaps from atop a crate at the Alachua County Humane Society. Alachua County animal 
shelters see an increase in pet adoptions during the first few weeks of the Fall semester .
John Hursh / Alligator
Bling It On
Pier Pointdujour (left), an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, and Megan Ellis, an 18-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation freshman, attended the Bling Out Your Bedroom event hosted by Reitz Union Board Entertainment on Wednesday evening. Ellis said she loves crafts and was happy to decorate her room with a personal touch.
LOCAL
Animal shelters say new semester sparks pet adoptions
THE LAB HELPS STUDENTS IN 
ANIMAL-PATIENT CARE. 
By Jenna Kline
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF welcomed veterinary students to a new 
laboratory with open arms — or open paws.
When classes started, students began their 
hands-on experience in the UF College of Vet-erinary Medicine’s clinical techniques labora-
tory.
“The space is beautiful,” said Ariel Robelen, 
a second-year UF student pursuing her doc-toral degree in veterinary medicine. “It’s huge, it’s inviting and it can definitively serve all the purposes this course intends to give us,” the 24-year-old said.  
The lab allows students to use enhanced 
technology to study real-world techniques used in animal-patient care, said Sarah Carey, the UF College of Veterinary Medicine’s direc-tor of public relations.
“They can learn more about teamwork, and 
they can hone their technical skills. And that’s why we built it. We want our students to be more practice-ready,” she said.
Fourth-year UF student Kristi Rhodes, who 
is also pursuing her doctorate in veterinary medicine,  said she’s only used the previous 
clinical skills lab.  The old lab was smaller and 
didn’t allow students to practice the complete medical spectrum of patient care.  
Students also learn to use computer pro-
grams, manage medical records and communi-cate with clients, the 29-year-old said.
Rhodes said she chose UF’s veterinary 
school because of the variety of teaching tools.
“That’s why I picked Florida — because 
there’s nowhere else that has such a great di-versity of things that you can study,” she said.  
“Because we truly do have it all.”New UF lab offers vet students hands-on experience
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a Ca-
bana Beach resident Tuesday after-
noon after he reportedly held a cos-metology student’s bag for ransom.   
Between last Thursday and Fri-
day, Peterson Pierre, 20, took the bag from Jykeriah Lester’s car be-cause she owed him money, accord-ing to a police report.
Lester, a 19-year-old Summit Sa-
lon Academy student, said about $1,000 worth of books and salon equipment were in the bag. 
“I can’t do anything without it,” 
she said.  
Pierre found the bag after open-
ing an unlocked door on her Purple PT Cruiser, Lester said. 
Lester said she drove Pierre to 
Winn-Dixie and Wok-N-Roll on Aug. 24, and that Pierre gave her $20 in gas money.He wanted that money back, 
Lester said. 
She said Pierre sent her sexual 
texts later that night.  
After Wednesday, she said Pierre 
started making supernatural threats. 
“He was say-
ing he could do 
voodoo on me 
and he’s going to get people from Haiti,” she said. 
Lester said she 
met Pierre when he walked by her balcony. Pierre 
could not be reached for comment. 
Lester corrected many details 
from the police report. 
Police recovered the bag and ar-
rested Pierre on charges of burglary and larceny.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where he was released on his own recognizance Wednesday afternoon. Man takes student’s 
purse for ransom
Pierre
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
YouTube comedians to perform in GNV
Epic Rap Battles of History is now off the screen and on the road, pg 12.What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Archer, ” pg 10.Hippodrome premieres musical this weekend, pg 11.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Less Than Jake, hometown 
heroes and veterans of the music 
scene for more than two decades, 
are gearing up for their fourth an-
nual Wake N Bake Weekend. The weekendlong festival brings the band back to their hometown and 
brings fans from across the world 
to Gainesville.
“It’s not just about the music 
or coming to a show,” Less Than Jake guitarist and vocalist Chris 
Demakes said. “It’s the whole 
weekend; it’s three days of hang-ing out and enjoying each other’s company.”
Demakes said the festival has 
grown to a point where there are people from Australia, Canada, Ja-pan, Europe, England and all over the U.S. ﬂ  ying in for it.
“It’s pretty remarkable,” he 
said.
The event will begin Friday 
with a kickoff at Loosey’s, located at 120 SW First Ave., where VIP guests will perform Less Than Jake 
karaoke with the band. Doors open 
at 9 p.m. and general admission is $5.
Saturday, the band will have a 
yard sale on the High Dive patio, located at 210 SW Second Ave., with merchandise from their per-sonal stashes.
“I raided my own personal mer-
chandise collection and so have a couple of the other guys,” De-makes said. “And we just have, you know, really limited edition records and T-shirts and all kinds of stuff.”
Demakes said you can catch the 
band “hanging out with the fans, havin’ drinks (and) chillin’ out,” at the patio  from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
for the yard sale.
Less Than Jake will be headlin-
ing Saturday and Sunday at High 
Dive. Supervillians, Kash’d Out and Mrs. Skannotto are supporting 
Saturday’s show. Doors open at 6 
p.m. and the show starts at 8:30 p.m. 
MC Lars, The Attack and You 
Vandal are supporting Sunday, with doors opening at 5 p.m. and the show beginning at 8:30 p.m. Tickets for each show can be pur-chased for $18 at the door or $15 in 
advance on ticketﬂ  y.com.Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, wrote in an email 
that Wake N Bake is a unique fes-tival because it happens in an inti-
mate venue. 
It is curated by the band in their 
hometown and he said it gives 
fans “an unprecedented amount of 
access to the band.”
“While some festivals have one 
of these aspects, I can’t think of 
one that has all of these,” Lavery said.
Lavery said that having the fes-
tival in their hometown says a lot about the band. Featuring other Florida bands just shows their 
loyalty and love for the scene and 
city, he added. 
“(Less Than Jake) could do this 
event in any city in the world if they wanted to, with any opening 
bands of their choosing,” Lavery 
said.Part of the weekend’s festivi-
ties includes a Sunday tour. The band chartered a bus and a driv-er to take 150 VIP guests around 
Gainesville. 
Demakes will lead the hourlong 
tour where guests will see places 
such as where the band’s ﬁ  rst 
show was and other locations that 
are important to them, Demakes said.
The band does different activi-
ties each year. Last year, Demakes 
hosted bingo at High Dive and 
an acoustic show and brunch at Loosey’s.
“It’s not just coming to see us 
for a couple shows, and that’s why you know we’re attracting people from all over,” Demakes said. “And it’s kind of turned into this thing, and each year it just gets 
crazier.” Craziness and angst are not 
things that Less Than Jake has lost during their time together, as they 
are known for putting on lively shows.
“We’re still doing the same 
things we were 20 years ago,” De-makes said. “We show up, we try to throw the best… I deem it a par-ty, you know we’re a party band. People show up to want to drink, 
hang out and have a good time. 
And that’s what we provide, and that’s what we’ve always done.”
With four of the ﬁ  ve band mem-
bers being former UF students, the band was in the middle of Gaines-ville’s ﬂ  ourishing early ‘90s music scene. In 1996, Less Than Jake drummer and lyricist Vinnie Fio-
rello, along with another UF stu-
dent, John Janick, formed the re-cord label Fueled By Ramen. The name Fueled By Ramen is a nod 
to being a broke college student 
and eating ramen noodles because they poured their money into the label. The label grew exponential-
ly and now has its ofﬁ  ce in New 
York City. Fiorello has since left the label and founded Gainesville-based label Paper + Plastick.
Demakes recalls that his older 
punk rocker friends would tell him that the years would only go by faster and he would still feel like he was 18 years old, but that 
he’d look in the mirror and see a 
38-year-old.
“And s**t man that’s exactly 
it,” Demakes said.
The spirit still keeps them go-
ing and, in that sense, they never grew up, he said.
“We’re still a fan. We’re still 
the 18, 19, 20-year-old kid at the 
show, you know? We still feel 
what they feel. We might go to bed a little earlier than they do now, but we still feel what they feel,” 
he said. “And the hangovers are 
worse now.” 
GNV band Less Than Jake to host weekendlong festival
Courtesy to the Alligator
Less Than Jake, the band who got its start in Gainesville and founded Fueled By Ramen, will be back in town hosting the fourth annual 
Wake N Bake Weekend. The event begins Friday at Loosey’s and continues Saturday and Sunday at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave.
Will have yard sale of personal itemsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
Take a sip when…
 Archer drinks
 Woodhouse appears
 Thereʼs a ﬂ  ashback
 Brett gets shot
 Someone comments on Lanaʼs large hands
Take two sips when…
 Some says “Phrasing”
 Krieger is working on an experiment (or 
one of his experiments is mentioned)
 Lana yells at Archer (once per scene, or 
you might die)
 Cheryl changes her name
 Pam makes a widly inappropriate reference 
to her sexual proclivities
Finish your drink when…
 Archer makes a Burt Reynolds reference
 Archer says “Danger Zone”
 Ray gets crippled (another drink if he gets 
robotic limbs)Most college students 
would agree Netﬂ  ix binge-
watching is not only a favor-
ite pastime, but necessary for 
our sanity
If you can relate, you may 
ﬁ  nd yourself remote-in-hand 
with a blank stare, suffering 
from what I call the Netﬂ  ix dilemma: Having so many options we can’t seem to commit to a single show.
From my experience, great 
binge-watching shows are those that we can ﬁ  nish, re-start and repeat while enjoy-
ing every viewing as much as 
the last. 
FX Network’s “Archer” 
ﬁ  ts the bill. If you’re not fa-miliar with the show, the an-imated adult comedy might throw you off at ﬁ  rst. Howev-er, once you realize this isn’t 
the same type of cartoon you 
grew up watching, it grows on you.
Based on a ﬁ  ctional spy 
agency, the show centers on the titular character Archer and his relationships with his coworkers, butler and an ocelot named Babou. 
The good part? It’s an 
extremely easy show to get hooked on and devour in one sitting. 
The best part? You can en-
courage Archer’s alcoholism by participating in it through this week’s Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game. By Alfredo Morales
Avenue Writer By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
Six pictures of women who changed Florida’s his-
tory lined the walls of the Matheson History Museum; their stories are interconnected and interwoven into 
the state’s history, undoubtedly changing it forever. 
Without them, Florida would have lost the Everglades and suffrage, and civil rights and environmentalism might not have progressed as quickly. 
The women selected for the “Saving the Sun-
shine State: Women Leaders in the 20th Century in Gainesville” exhibit are: May Mann Jennings, Zora Neale Hurston, Marjory Stoneman Douglas, Marjo-rie Harris Carr, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings and Mary 
McLeod Bethune. Each woman worked to improve 
Florida and the lives of its residents in areas such as conservation, civil rights, writing, education and suf-frage during the 20th century, according to a Mathe-
son History Museum press release.
Joanna Grey is the marketing and education coor-
dinator for the museum. This is the ﬁ  rst exhibit she 
has seen completed from start to ﬁ  nish since she be-gan working at the museum in May.
“The overarching themes of our exhibit are suf-
frage, education, environmentalism and conserva-tionism,” Grey said. “Just women activists wanting to improve our state and wanting to improve the lives 
around them.”
She said these women focused not only on their 
current generation but future generations as well.
The women were contemporaries, and many of them were friends, or had some contact with one another; this is highlighted by the handwritten letters between 
women featured in the exhibits.
In Mary McLeod Bethune’s display case, items are 
on loan from the Bethune Foundation. Some featured 
items include two yearbooks, a brass elephant and a cane she had only to command presence and not for 
physical need, according to Grey.
There is a case for Rawlings’ and Carr’s items, 
which include copies of letters. Grey said due to the 
scarcity of originals, most museums have copies of 
documents. Carr, a UF graduate, has a saddle on dis-
play which she rode while in Honduras, according to Grey.
“My hope, personally, is that it brings in people 
outside of Alachua County, not just people from 
Gainesville,” Grey said. “Even though we have many 
local connections in our exhibit, we wanted to relate it more to people outside Alachua County.” She said the museum attracts many people through social me-
dia.
The exhibit will be on display from Sept. 1 to Oct. 
31. Throughout that time, there will be several events 
hosted by professionals who will give seminars, tours and discussions on the women and their inﬂ  uence on 
Florida. More information can be found at matheson-
museum.org/events-1.html.
“I just encourage people of all backgrounds, of 
both genders, everybody to come see this exhibit be-
cause it is something we can all relate to,” Grey said. 
“Whatever your cause may be, there is something to be inspired by.”Matheson Museum opens exhibit
LOCAL
“PETER AND THE STARCATCHER”
WILL PREMIERE AT THE
 HIPPODROME THIS WEEKEND.
By Macey Wilson
Avenue Writer
Former Broadway show and recipient of ﬁ  ve Tony 
Awards “Peter and the Starcatcher” is opening in 
Gainesville this weekend.
The musical play is based on Dave Barry and Rid-
ley Pearson’s novel, which tells the story of how Peter 
Pan and Neverland came to be. The play premieres at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre, located at 25 SE Second Place, on Friday and closes Sep. 27. This will be the third play for which the Hippodrome has partnered with the UF School of Theatre and Dance, granting students the experience of performing in a professional theater.
Andrew Quimby, a 20-year-old UF theatre and eco-
nomics junior, said this show has given him an opportu-nity to work in a different atmosphere.
“It’s just a really positive, challenging environment, 
and I’ve really enjoyed it,” he said. 
Quimby, who plays the role of both Slank and Hawk-
ing Clam, auditioned for the show at the end of April and received the script at the beginning of summer.
“There’s no date to be off line,” Quimby said. “You’re 
expected to work and do everything on your own and come to rehearsal prepared, know your music, know your lines.”
The role of Hawking Clam also provided a new chal-
lenge for Quimby due to how physical the character is. With a month consisting of eight rehearsals a week, the biggest struggle was ﬁ  nding the balance between fully committing and not wearing himself out.
“The entire time I was running and jumping, and I 
was overdoing myself to the point where I would get home and I would ache and my leg would hurt,” Qui-mby said.
Audiences can expect to see this physicality in the 
show’s ﬁ  ght scenes and slapstick.
“It’s a no-think show in the best way,” Quimby said. 
“It’s entertaining, it’s fun, it’s quick, and it never takes a moment to…stop from laughing.”
And while the singing, dancing and humor will en-
sure that children will enjoy the show, they aren’t the 
target audience. The story focuses on the friendship of 
two children, so adults can appreciate seeing it develop and change. The play is both a comedy and a drama.
The major message? Never take anything for granted, 
Quimby said.
Meanwhile, longtime fans of the play like Ashley 
Vonada, a 20-year-old UF math and physics junior, await its arrival.
“Peter and the Starcatchers is one of my favorite plays 
and books of all time,” Vonada said.
She said she’s excited to see what the Hippodrome 
does with the play.
“If the audience has nearly as much fun as we’re hav-
ing as actors, then it’ll deﬁ  nitely be worth it,” Quimby said. “Because we’re having a blast.”
Discounted preview performances began Wednesday 
and will continue tonight. Tickets can be purchased on thehipp.org or from the Hippodrome box ofﬁ  ce at 352-375-4477. Weekend prices vary based on time and seat-ing, but will begin at $8 for students, $18 for seniors and those under 30, and $28 for the general public.Hippodrome, UF partner for play
“It’s a no-think show in the best way. It’s 
entertaining, it’s fun, it’s quick, and it never 
takes a moment to…stop from laughing.”
Andrew Quimby
UF theatre and economics junior Someone is fooled by Archerʼs overly elaborate 
voicemails12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLEBy Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
A YouTube act is coming to the Gainesville 
stage this weekend — and it’s going to be epic.
In 2010,  Epic Rap Battles of History come-
dians Peter Shukoff and Lloyd Ahlquist (aka 
Nice Peter and EpicLLOYD) created their You-
Tube channel, Epic Rap Battles of History, 
where they place famous ﬁ  gures from past, present, reality and ﬁ  ction against each other in a rap battle. Now, the comedians are bring-ing their show out on the road for the ﬁ  rst time, said Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents.
“And this is the only show in Florida,” Lav-
ery wrote in an email. “That in itself is a big deal.”
Today, the YouTube sensation is the 17th 
most subscribed channel on YouTube with more than 12.5 million subscribers and a total of 1.7 billion views.
“At the time I got into it, it was the golden 
age of YouTube,” said creator Shukoff. “I nev-er would’ve expected that it would get to this.”
ERB will be performing Monday at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors 
open at 7 p.m. and the show begins at 7:30 
p.m. Tickets can be purchased for $23 at the door and advance tickets can be purchased for $20 at Hear Again Music and Movies, the High Dive box ofﬁ  ce or ticketﬂ  y.com.
ERB has created 57 episodes in a span of 
four seasons. Their most watched videos in-clude “Barack Obama vs. Mitt Romney,” “Steve Jobs vs. Bill Gates,” “Master Chief vs. 
Leonidas,” and “Mario Bros. vs. Wright Bros.”
For every video created, Shukoff, Ahlquist 
and the team spend hours discussing lyrics, beats, editing, costume design, storyboards 
and more. It takes approximately four-to-six months to create six one-to-ﬁ  ve-minute videos 
with the perfect blend of music and humor.
Because it’s a digital series, the team has 
had the freedom to work independently but 
has managed to consistently improve as the years passed. In 2015, ERB was nominated for Outstanding Digital Series at the Producers Guild of America Awards.
“We’ve been allowed to make mistakes and 
learn from them on our own, which I think is what has helped us grow,” Shukoff said.
ERB has also had various special guests 
make cameo appearances in rap battles such as Weird Al as Sir Isaac Newton in “Sir Isaac Newton vs. Bill Nye the Science Guy.”
“We met at a YouTube party and he had 
said he’d like to be in a video sometime…
When we stumbled upon Isaac Newton we 
thought that’d be perfect so we called him and he said, ‘Sure, I’ll do it’,” Shukoff said.
Lavery expects the show to feature some of 
ERB’s greatest hits performed live. The duo is coming to High Dive armed with about 25 dif-ferent costumes and props.
While this is the ﬁ  rst time the duo performs 
as Epic Rap Battles of History, this isn’t their 
ﬁ  rst show together. The comedians met in Chi-
cago when they were touring colleges together with the improv comedy troupe Mission Im-provable. It’s safe to say they’re going back to their roots.
“The show is still pretty loose; there are a 
couple moments where you don’t know what’s going to happen,” Shukoff said. “The songs are the centerpiece of the show but around that 
we interact with the audience to rap and dance 
and do all sorts of funny stuff.”
Shukoff is also no stranger to High Dive. 
Last year, he ended his solo U.S. improv tour in Gainesville.
“It was one of my favorite shows that year. 
We had a blast,” Shukoff said.
According to the comedian, the tour man-
ager always looks for attitude in the people and 
in the people running the venue. To Shukoff, 
there is something cool about Gainesville.
When asked what is one last thing the audi-
ence should know, Shukoff urged rappers to come prepared.
 “We’re going to need a William Shake-
speare and a Goku,” he said.
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, SEPT. 4
Free Fridays Concert: Ricky Kendall
Mobile Stage
100 SW Second Ave.
Free Event | 8 p.m.Courtesy to the Alligator
Comedians Peter Shukoff and Lloyd Ahlquist are best known for their YouTube 
channel, Epic Rap Battles of History. Now, they’re taking their act on tour.
Veronica Garcia
Avenue Writer
Self-made country artist Jer-
ry Jacobs will be performing in 
Gainesville tonight and fans can 
expect a great twist on classic 
country music.
The singer, who described his 
musical style as a mix of ‘90s 
country music, rock, soft rock, 
pop and top 40, will be playing original pieces as well as covers from various genres.
“We do a little bit of every-
thing to entertain a crowd that is there,” Jacobs said.
The free event will take place 
Thursday at World of Beer, locat-
ed at 140 SW 128 St. Doors open 
at 3 p.m., and the show begins at 8 p.m.
Tonight’s show will mark Ja-
cobs’ first time performing in 
Gainesville as well as the first 
of five World of Beer locations where he will perform.
“I thought it would be fun be-
cause we’re trying to reach the college crowds,” Jacobs said.
The Nashville-based country artist initially knew at a young age that he wanted to be a coun-
try singer. When Jacobs was 
5 years old he went to his very first concert in Charleston, South Carolina, the singer’s hometown.
He said he realized his desire 
to perform at a Hootie and the 
Blowfish concert, where he told 
his dad it was what he wanted to do — and it still is.
In the fall of 2004, he became 
his own booking agent, manager and producer. The singer would take any opportunity to play, including talent shows, grocery 
stores and even the parking lot of 
Chick-fil-A.
“When I was in middle school 
and high school I was in a band, and every weekend I would try to 
play shows here in my hometown 
of South Carolina,” Jacobs said.Now, the musician has shared 
the stage with the likes of Kid Rock, Cole Swindell, Love and 
Theft, and Randy Houser. The 
current lineup includes Jacobs on vocal and guitar along with guitarist Beau Hedrich. The two guitarists met in Nashville, play-
ing at a well-known honky-tonk 
called Tootsies Orchid Lounge.
What’s next for Jacobs? He 
expects to release his upcoming 
single, “Maybe Tonight,” toward 
the end of fall.
Kerry Brock, general manager 
of World of Beer, said he is ex-cited to see Jacobs perform.
“We have high expectations 
to see this country singer,” Brock said. “We actually use a profes-sional booking agency who rec-
ommends tremendous talent to 
us here.”
Carrie Sammel, a co-founder 
of entertainment booking and management company CJS Pro-
ductions, said she thought Ja-
cobs’ sound would be a great ad-dition to World of Beer.
“I like his versatility in his 
voice,” Sammel said. “He can sing country, but can also sound perfect singing top 40 as well.”Country singer Jerry Jacobs to 
perform tonight at World of BeerYouTube sensation Epic Rap Battles come to GNV stage
MUSIC
The performance is free
“I thought it would be fun 
because we’re trying to reach 
the college crowds.”
Jerry Jacobs
country artistMario Kart Drunk Driving T ournament
8-bit Bar
919 W. University Ave.
Free Event | 8 p.m.
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SATURDAY, SEPT. 5
Future
The Venue
233 W. University Ave.
$65-$150 | 9 p.m.
‘90s Night with DJ P-Funk
The Atlantic Nightspot
15 N. Main St. 
$3 | 10 p.m.
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SUNDAY, SEPT. 6
Gainesville Food T our
Downtown Restaurants
Addresses Vary
$48.99 | 10:45 p.m.
Tim Fest III
The Jam
817 W. University Ave.
Guys $10, Girls $5 | 4 p.m.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious at-mosphere. $425/mo includes high speed in-ternet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 352-631-0737    9-11-15-12-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep 
entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
ATTENTION: VET STUDENTS, NURSING, 
MED STUDENTS. Close to campus, 3BR/2.5BA, new up-grade, 2-car garage + storage shed. $1300/mo. 1259 SW 21st Ave.  352-378-1221 / 352-871-4252    9-9-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
● 20 PIECE WILD TURKEY DECANTER 
COLLECTION (3 miniatures go with col-lection for free.) $1500. ● VALUABLE 
PLAYBOY MAGAZINES - 2000 - 2012 . $1500.  Call Lloyd at 352-262-4390.    9-10-5-10
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-122007 HYUNDAI ENTOURAGELike new, 6-cyl, Front-wheel drive, gas, 115,800 mi, gold, clean title. Nice, extra clean, ready to go! Leather, sunroof, DVD, full capt chairs, running-board, loaded. $6500. 352-226-7251    9-10-5-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYUF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Sun Country Sports is now hiring for
recreational & team gymnastics coaches,
front desk, & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
9-3-15-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred.Email resume to:    drpohani@gmail.com     9-4-15-5-14College Student needed part-time for busy law firm in Gainesville to answer phones. Must be familiar with Google Calendar. Send resume to touchtonassistant@gmail.com and include phone number for contact.    9-3-4-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Consign-a-Rama
Gainesville's newest college and juniors 
consignment sale! Positions available, visit 
www.consign-a-rama.com for info
9-4-15-5-14
P/T ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Holy Trinity Church. Strong oral/written commu-nications skills including editing required as well as working knowledge & experience with MS Office Suite and social media. Must have positive attitude & be a team player. Direct inquiries to rhpowell43@gmail.com.   9-4-15-5-14
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
P/T cleaner needed for offices,apartments, 
and homes. Must have own transportation and be able to pass a background/reference/drug test..weekly pay and hrly rate of 8.25/hr..if interested please call 352-214-0868    9-10-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYEDITING PAPERS AND DISSERTATIONS-
-ADJUNCT PROFESSOR AND NATIONAL 
AUTHOR whyland99@yahoo.com; http://
whyland99.wix.com/jefferson    9-4-15-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Revolutionary new natural coldsore treat-
ment completely dries outbreaks within 1-3 days. Instant relief. Buy 1-get-1 Free: Coupon xU83F1G Expires 09/07www.herpacor.com/xu83f1g    9-4-15-4-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Four Southeastern Conference 
teams open their seasons in must-watch games. Read the story on pg. 18. Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports and online at www.alligator.org/sports for updates on UF athletics. By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13       
 
For the Florida soccer team, the 
offense has received the bulk of the 
attention that has been placed on 
a squad that conquered previously top-ranked Florida State on Sunday.
After starting the regular sea-
son with just two goals in as many games, the No. 8 Gators broke out to score seven combined goals against Miami and the Seminoles — six of which were either scored 
or assisted by a freshman.
The UF defense, however, has 
been just as stellar.Led by seniors Christen West-
phal and Claire Falknor, Florida’s 
back line has allowed just 1.25 goals-per-game in four regular sea-son matches.
With the departure of key play-
ers such as Havana Solaun and An-nie Speese, Westphal and Falknor — both part of the U.S. U-23 Na-tional Team over the summer — 
have stepped up as vocal leaders in 
the locker room thus far in 2015.
The two defenders spoke out 
during halftime of the team’s game 
at Miami earlier in the season. The 
teams were tied at 0-0 after 45 min-utes of play.Falknor felt that the team was 
being outworked, and that they were better than what they showed in the first half.
“I was just really frustrated be-
cause I knew that these freshmen, and this team in general, had a lot more potential than what they were 
showing,” Falknor said.
“It was time for me to tell them, 
you know, ‘I trust in you, it’s okay 
we make mistakes, we will have your back,’ and just go out there 
and make the most of the night.”
The loss of two key defenders 
and four-year starting goalkeeper 
Taylor Burke opened up three spots 
in the defense that needed to be 
filled. By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Geoff Collins must’ve thought 
he walked into one of the best 
job opportunities in the country 
when he was hired to be Florida’s defensive coordinator.
It’s a defense that is loaded, 
and when head coach Jim McEl-wain decided to bring Collins on board back in December, Collins got his first chance to see how skilled the defense was.
And right away, Collins was 
impressed by the defense’s drive and hunger.
“The biggest thing, and I didn’t 
know this when I was first hired, 
it might be the most competi-tive group of 
kids I’ve ever been around,” Collins said. 
“If you put a 
ball down or say 
there’s a win-
ner or loser or some kind of com-
petitive situation, these guys just thrive and shine. 
"They’re highly intelligent, By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
Treon Harris will take the first snap. 
What happens from there is still to be de-
termined.
Florida coach Jim McElwain announced 
Wednesday that Harris will draw the start 
in Saturday’s season opener against New 
Mexico State. However, McElwain said the 
battle to be the starting quarterback for the remainder of the season is still up for grabs.
“I wouldn’t read that much into it,” 
McElwain said. “Treon’s going to start the football game. Will’s going to play in that game a lot, too. … It’s a painting in progress. We’ve got to figure out what the 
backdrop is going to be.” 
And for right now, the backdrop in-
cludes both Harris and Grier.
Harris, the 5-foot-11, 195-pound sopho-
more who won two state titles at Miami Booker T. Washington High, went 4-2 as 
a starter last season and played through the bulk of UF’s Southeastern Conference schedule.
He replaced Jeff Driskel at the end of 
the third quarter against Tennessee and led Florida’s offense to 10 unanswered points for a 10-9 victory.
Harris finished the season with 1,019 
passing yards, nine touchdowns and four interceptions, playing the final three games of the regular season with a right thumb injury. 
But Grier, the 6-foot-2 redshirt freshman 
who tossed 77 touchdowns and passed for 
SEC Cross Country preseason rankings revealed
Both the Florida men's and women's cross country teams are projected to 
finish in third place in the Southeastern Conference this season. On the men's side, Ole Miss is projected to finish in first place while Arkansas is pro-jected to finish in first place on the women's side. SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE COLLINS,  PAGE 19 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 19FOOTBALL
Florida hungry for 
success under CollinsUF soccer's back line leading wayAlligator File Photo
Quarterback Treon Harris looks to pass the ball during the fourth quarter of Florida's 10-9 victory against T ennessee on Oct. 4 at 
Neyland Stadium in Knoxville, T ennessee. 
McElwain: Treon Harris to start against New Mexico State
Collins
Freshmen stepping up18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
SEC ROUNDUP
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Tonight marks the opening of 
what everybody has been waiting 
for: the 2015 college football season. While there aren’t a lot of intriguing 
matchups this week in the Southeast-
ern Conference, here is a list of games that you should be paying attention to.
 
North Carolina vs. South 
Carolina: Tonight, 6 — ESPN:  
Is there a better way to open up the season than having the Ol’ Ball coach — Steve Spurrier — headlin-ing ESPN’s first game of the year? 
The South Carolina coach has 
been at it for more than 30 years with no end in sight. However, last year was a down year for the Gamecocks as they went 7-6 after going 11-2 in 2013. South Carolina will have a new starting quarterback in Connor Mitch as he replaces Dylan Thomp-son. Meanwhile, the Tar Heels will 
be looking to bounce back after a 6-7 
season with redshirt senior quarter-back Marquise Williams returning after throwing for 3,068 yards and 21 touchdowns while rushing for 13 more. 
The two teams didn’t face each 
other last year, but South Carolina beat North Carolina 27-10 in 2013. 
Tonight’s game will be played on 
neutral ground in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
 
No. 6 Auburn vs. Louisville: Saturday, 3:30 p.m. — CBS:  
Auburn was chosen by the media to win the 2015 SEC title, but the Ti-gers enter the season with two major questions surrounding the team. 
How will quarterback Jeremy 
Johnson adjust to the starting role? 
And will a defense that ranked 
66th in total defense last year be able to improve enough under new defensive coordinator — and former Florida head coach — Will Mus-champ? Louisville returns leading rusher Brandon Radcliff, who ran for 737 yards and 12 touchdowns last season. 
Auburn has been picked by many 
to make the college football playoff this year, but can coach Gus Mal-zahn be able to find the answers sur-rounding the two biggest questions surrounding the team? 
It all starts for the Tigers against 
the Cardinals at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.
 No. 15 Arizona State vs. 
Texas A&M: Saturday, 7 p.m. 
— ESPN: Texas A&M coach Kevin 
Sumlin has the hardest test out off all 
the SEC head coaches this week as he sees a strong Arizona State team come into the . This game will be 
played at a “neutral site” in Houston, 
as the Sun Devils will have to travel about 1,175 miles while the Aggies will only travel about 100. 
Sumlin has seen his team regress 
each season since his first year in 2012 when A&M went 11-2. Kyle Al-len was named the starting quarter-back for the Aggies after he played in nine games last year and threw for 16 touchdowns. Arizona State 
won 10 games last year and the Sun 
Devils enter this year with higher ex-pectations including competing for a Pac-12 title.    
 
 No. 3 Alabama vs. No. 20 
Wisconsin: Saturday, 8 p.m. 
— ABC: The biggest game in the 
first week of the college football slate 
also happens to be taking place in the biggest NFL stadium in the coun-try, AT&T Stadium in Dallas. 
Alabama reached the college 
football playoff last season, but saw their year end at the hands of eventual champion Ohio State in the semifinals in New Orleans. Howev-er, Alabama is among the favorites to get back into the college football playoff .
The Crimson Tide had five play-
ers named to the 2015 preseason All-SEC First Team, but Saban still has yet to name a starting quarterback. Wisconsin will look to replace run-ning back Melvin Gordon who led the NCAA last year in rushing yards (2,587), touchdowns (29) and yards per game (184.79). 
Quarterback Joel Stave returns 
for the Badgers as he looks to im-prove on a dismal season where he threw for nine touchdowns against 10 interceptions in a run-heavy of-fense. Alabama has gone 3-for-3 the last three seasons in opening games at neutral sites and will look to make it 4-for-4 on Saturday.     Four SEC games to watch as the 2015 season kicks off
AP Photo
Alabama football coach Nick Saban works with his players during the team’s practice on Tuesday in 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Though they only lost one set between their first 
two matches this weekend, the Gators know they’ve 
been challenged.
They were down 11-0 in the second set of their 
opening match against James Madison University, that 
is, before coming all the way back and stealing the set 
32-30.
Florida was also down 18-23 in the fourth set against 
American University on Sunday before tallying seven 
straight points to win the set 26-24 and snag the vic-tory.
But senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino will tell you 
those situations are nothing new – because the team rehearses them in practice.
“You might be winning 24-14 in practice and Mary 
will flip the score around,” she said. 
“What are you gonna do now to get back to that 24? 
I think we put ourselves in those situations enough in practice, so when we do get to a game like situation we’re able to actually push forward and get out of that 
rut.”
It’s those situations that helped the Gators mesh as 
a team this weekend and work together more.
Sophomore outside hitter Carli Snyder said these 
challenges helped bond the team together.
“We just gelled a lot with each other and we were 
put in some uncomfortable situations throughout 
the weekend, and I feel like we answered those with grace,” she said.
Snyder mentioned one specific player who stepped 
up this weekend: Lindsey Rogers.Rogers, a redshirt freshman defensive specialist, 
saw time on the court for the first time in her career this weekend against James Madison. 
The Tallahassee native served while Florida was 
down 21-18 in that second set to JMU and put together 
four straight points to tie the set.
“She was a redshirt freshman and for her first time 
served in a really high pressure situation and ended up 
getting an ace,” Snyder said.
Dagostino, though a senior now, 
knows how nervous Rogers must have 
been.
“That was her first time out on the 
court ever and going back there it’s 
stressful to go back there and serve 
cold off the bench,” she said. 
“She just did such a great job going 
back there and really believing in herself and having the confidence in her abilities to do exactly what she 
did.”
And although the weekend was highlighted by sto-
ries like Rogers’ first game action and Rhamat Alhas-
san’s dominance at the net that earned her Southeast-
ern Conference Defensive Player of the Week, Mary 
Wise looked at another player that stood out.
“You have to start with Nikki O’Rourke in her first 
matches in the libero jersey,” Wise said. 
“She is maybe the quickest libero we’ve ever had 
here. She’s so fast both in feet and very quick-handed.”
A player like O’Rourke is huge for a team like Flor-
ida, which has so many big, offensive-minded hitters.
“Our hitters can take swings knowing they may get 
blocked,” Wise said. 
“But Nikki’s gonna make plays to cover them.”Florida simulating pressure situations 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mackenzie Dagostino sets the ball during Florida’s 3-0 win 
against Mississippi State on Oct. 26. 
Wise
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
nearly 5,000 yards in his final season at 
Davidson (N.C.) Day High, kept pace with Harris throughout Spring and Fall camp. 
After redshirting last season — recov-
ering from a back injury and bulking up about 20 pounds in the process — Grier looked to have a slight edge in the quarter-back battle coming out of Spring practice. 
McElwain said the decision was a “real-ly close call” and neither quarterback was 
able to separate himself through almost 30 
practices in Fall camp. 
“From a coaching standpoint you’ve got 
to feel good about that because you’ve got 
two real good quarterbacks who are going 
to be able to go in and play the game,” he said. “As you know in this business, you’d rather have it that way than the other way.” 
But even though Harris has the first 
snap, both will receive extensive playing time. 
McElwain said each 
quarterback will have a 
scripted set of eight plays to start their respective 
first drives. From there, 
the play calls — and the amount of playing time each quarterback receives 
— will depend on the flow of the game. 
“The key here guys is it’s a true part-
nership,” McElwain said. “It’s two guys helping each other help this football team 
win. We’ve got some battles too. You’re 
always going to have battles at different positions.” 
And while McElwain provided a tempo-
rary answer for Saturday’s game, the quar-terback battle isn’t over yet. 
“As we said, someone starts, someone 
comes in,” McElwain said. “Both of them I feel (are) deserving of it. Both of them had 
a really good spring and fall and we’re ex-
cited about seeing those guys play.”
FOOTBALL,  from pg 17Florida will let the quarterback battle play out after opener 
hard workers and they compete every sin-gle day.”  
Nicknamed the “Minister of Mayhem” 
during his time at Mississippi State, Collins brings an attitude to Florida different from that of previous defensive coordinator D.J. Durkin.
Durkin took a more laid-back approach 
under previous head coach Will Mus-champ, but Collins has a more fiery per-sonality and it rubs off on his defense.  
Last season at Mississippi State, Collins 
coached a defense that ranked 20th in the nation with 37 sacks while UF had just 30  in 2014.
The Bulldogs defense was also the best 
in the country last season in redzone de-fense, allowing their opponents to score just 63.64 percent of the time.
Meanwhile, the Gators ranked 35th in 
the same category, allowing opponents to 
score on 78.38 percent of their opportuni-
ties.
But last year’s Mississippi State defense 
doesn’t compare to what Collins now has 
with Florida’s depth. 
The Gators have an abundance of play-
makers on different parts of the unit, and 
even though they will be without three starters for the first game — safety Kea-nu Neal (leg injury), safety Marcus Maye (suspension) and defensive lineman Alex McCalister (suspension) — Collins said he doesn’t use a depth chart to determine who 
will come in and take their place. 
Whoever is available to help the team is 
the only thing Collins worries about. The team's mindset can't focus on 
who's missing. 
“We talk about here there’s no depth 
chart on defense around here. If you’re 
above the line, you’re going to play. If you’re not, you still have some work to 
do,” Collins said.“We don’t worry about who starts or 
who’s not starting or who’s playing.”
Now, with the first game on Saturday 
night against New Mexico State, the play-ers on the defense have their first chance 
to showcase to Collins what he has at his disposal. 
Collins doesn’t want his defense to sit 
back and be complacent against a team like 
the Aggies. 
He’s been preaching to the Gators to 
prepare like New Mexico State is a Top 25 
opponent. 
“Just to go out and practice as hard as 
we can, just because our opponent might not be a big name, don’t come out and sit on it,” senior defensive lineman Jon Bul-lard said on Tuesday.  
Collins also isn’t afraid of setting high 
expectations, and the one he’s placed on the shoulders of the defense is a big one:  Be the best defense in the nation.
“The kids have those expectations in 
themselves. Why shy away from it? We want to do our best every single day to try to personally be the best we can possibly be,” Collins said. 
“We talk about that every single day. 
Whether we’re going against the scout team or the first-team offense or the sec-ond-team offense, it doesn’t matter we’re 
competing to be the absolute best we can 
be.”COLLINS,  from pg 17Gators will be without three defensive starters on SaturdayBoth wingback positions were up 
for grabs during the offseason, with redshirt sophomore Kristen Cardano 
receiving the bulk of the work on 
the right side and the freshmen trio of Gaby Rivera, Rachelle Smith and Sara Wilson contributing on the left 
side.
“From the beginning of the year 
until now, they’ve progressed in 
their ability to understand what we’re trying to get out of that posi-
tion,” coach Becky Burleigh said.
Taking over the goalkeeper spot 
for the departed Burke is redshirt ju-nior Valerie Tysinger.
Before this year, the Daytona 
Beach native had not made a start as 
a Gator, having played in just nine 
total games in her first two years on the team—redshirting during the 
2013 season.
Despite a lack of playing time, 
Tysinger established herself as a leader from the sidelines.
“She’s a good communicator, and 
she’s a person you could put your trust into,” Falknor said. 
Tysinger’s role on the bench as 
an underclassman has quickly trans-lated to her becoming a leader of the defense even more so, as the nature of the goalkeeper position tends to require the player to have a voice 
and direct the back line.
She is known as a selfless player, 
doing everything she can to help her 
teammates succeed, both on and off 
the field. 
“She’s just such a servant lead-
er,” Burleigh said. 
“She puts the needs of other peo-
ple in front of herself.”SOCCER,  from pg 17UF has conceded five 
goals in four games
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Defender Christen Westphal dribbles the ball during Florida's 3-2 win against Florida State on Sunday 
at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman Jon Bullard participates in Florida's first Spring practice of 2015 on March 16 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Grier
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015
