We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 15 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
UF starting linebacker sidelined again
He reinjured his right shoulder, pg 13.
Reitz expansion continues
It will be open to students in January, pg. 3
UF student arrested after punching oﬃ   cer
It was during Saturday’s football game, pg. 5Students celebrate life and 
remember lives lost on 9/11
Check out the photo story, pg. 8
EAST CAROLINA 24 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 31
‘WE’VE GOT A LONG WAYS TO GO’
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
For the past few years, Bianca 
Nachmani celebrated the Jewish new year with her family in Phila-delphia.
Every Fall, the UF political 
science freshman and her fam-ily would celebrate Rosh Hashana, the Jewish new year, where they would come together to celebrate and reﬂ  ect.
But this year, Nachmani,18, 
prayed and celebrated nearly 1,000 miles away from home.
She was one of several fresh-
men who joined the celebration at Lubavitch-Chabad, a Jewish community center on Northwest Fifth Avenue, looking to celebrate the holiday and ﬁ  nd a new Jewish community in Gainesville.“I heard it was welcoming 
here,” she said. “I’m looking for-ward to getting back into the swing of things.”
Several groups of friends stood 
together before services began.
Brad Lazar, a 19-year-old UF 
computer science sophomore, said his sister went to Lubavitch-Chabad when she was a student at UF, and he was hoping to ﬁ  nd the same community she did.
“I grew up in Tampa and didn’t 
really know any Jewish people,” Jewish freshmen ﬁ  nd a communityCAMPUS
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gator family just lost a 
prehistoric friend.
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History packed up the 
“A T. rex Named Sue” exhibit Sunday and shipped it to the Michigan Science Center in 
Detroit. 
The exhibit featured a 42-
foot long and 13-foot high 
skeleton of a Tyrannosaurus rex, which has been at UF 
since Jan. 24. 
Currently, it is the largest 
and most complete skeleton 
archeologists have found of a 
T. rex.
“It’s my job to go in every 
morning to check on every-
thing,” said Tina Cho, an ex-hibit developer at the muse-
um. “I’m going to miss seeing 
that giant skeleton.”
In Sue’s enormous foot-
steps, the museum will open 
“First Colony: Our Spanish 
Origins.” 
This new bilingual exhibit 
will feature more than 400 ar-tifacts from St. Augustine and 
explain the colonization of Florida.
“We are excited for the new 
exhibit,” said Paul Ramey, a 
museum spokesman. “It will be completely different. We try to switch up the type of exhib-its we show.”
UF French freshman Julia 
Burgin said she visited the ex-hibit four times.
“Sue is a reminder that we 
are small in the scheme of the universe,” the 18-year-old said.
Ramey estimates more than 
76,000 people visited Sue this year.  
“Some of the curators here 
wanted her to come back be-cause their kids weren’t born 13 years ago (and) hadn’t seen her,” Ramey said. “There is a whole new generation of kids 
that hadn’t seen Sue. And who 
doesn’t love dinosaurs?”Sue the dinosaur 
leaves UF, new exhibit takes placeBy Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
As Jim McElwain walked into his post-
game press conference following the Gators’ 
win against East Carolina on Saturday night, 
the look on his face said it all. Even though Florida (2-0) won 31-24 over 
the Pirates (1-1), McElwain had a look of complete disgust because of the way UF per-
formed against ECU.
It was a far cry from the satisﬁ  ed demean-
or he had after his debut win against New 
Mexico State.
“That was embarrassing. We didn’t de-serve to win the ball game,” McElwain said. 
“Thought (ECU head coach) Rufﬁ  n (Mc-Neill) and his team came in here and took it to us. Our lack of playing with discipline and 
understanding how to play the game crept 
up and it was embarrassing.”
After committing just one penalty for 10 
yards against the Aggies, the Gators racked 
up 12 penalties for 105 yards in their second 
game. 
But what really set McElwain off were the two unsportsmanlike conduct penalties that came after touchdowns. Following his lone score of the night, junior running back Kel-vin Taylor was at the mercy of an infuriated 
McElwain on the sidelines. 
Seconds earlier, Taylor made a throat-
slash gesture after the score and was immedi-
ately reprimanded by McElwain in a moment 
captured on cameras across the country. 
“We’ve got a long ways to go and it starts UF regresses in win vs. ECU
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
It’s for Rosh Hashana
SEE NEW YEAR,  PAGE 4
Students and community members gather at Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community 
Center for Rosh Hashana, the Jewish new year, on Sunday night. About 450 people celebrated together with apples and honey, a traditional part of Rosh Hashana.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff“It will be completely 
diferent. W e try to switch 
up the type of exhibits we 
show.”
Paul Ramey
Florida Museum of Natural Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
T oday’s Weather
PMNOON
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
Comedy
Free stand-up comedy features 
UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals, every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret down-
town. 
The show features professional comedians and amateur com-
ics tearing up the stage. Feeling 
funny? Show up before 9 p.m. and sign up for our comedy open mic. Comedy workshop at 8 p.m. is hosted by local pros.
 Volunteer Organization Fair  
This year’s Volunteer Organization Fair is Wednesday. Meet and gather information 
about all the volunteer organi-
zations available on campus 
and in the community. 
More than 50 organizations will be present, including Grace 
Marketplace, Wilmot Gardens, 
Red Cross Gators and many 
more. The event will take place from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway.
 Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org.      VOLUME 110 ISSUE 15
HIGH  88° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Students will ﬁ  nally have access to the 
newly renovated areas of the Reitz Union 
next semester.
The renovations will be completed in 
late December and open to students at 
the beginning of January. 
The $75 million project, which will 
add on 120,000 square feet of new space 
and renovate 95,000 square feet, began in October 2013. 
The target completion date had been 
the beginning of Fall, said Eddie Daniels, executive director of the Reitz.
“There’s still a little bit of work going 
on,” Daniels said.  
Construction teams still need to ﬁ  nish 
the installation of the walls, ceilings and ﬂ  oors, he said. The electrical wiring also needs to be completed.
The add-on will include three depart-
ments, student organization spaces and two dance studios.
The Orange and Brew, a restaurant 
space and brewery, will also reopen next to the renovated game room, Daniels said. The Orange and Brew will feature a Wing Zone and a stage for entertainment.
The colonnade, which was an open, 
covered area where students could pro-mote organizations, will be recreated.
The expansion will also bring a new 
Rion Ballroom, he said. 
Previously on the second ﬂ  oor, it will 
now be on the third as a two-story multi-purpose space.
A grand opening will be held in late 
February, he said.
“We think, and we hope, that students 
will be wowed,” Daniels said. “They’re going to see an absolutely amazing build-
ing.”
While UF students are excited for the 
renovations, some remain skeptical of the 
timeline.
“I think it’s very not set-in-stone,” said 
UF chemistry sophomore Tatiana Gerena. “I know they pushed it back last year.”
Gerena said she’s excited to have more 
space for clubs to meet.
“It would be cool to wind down at the 
Reitz after a long day of studying,” the 19-year-old said.Reitz expansion continues
Eric Heubusch / Alligator
Falling With Style
Christina Cates, head captain of the Gainesville Roller Rebels, teaches attendees 
about falling in roller derby at the team’s recruitment boot camp Sunday at the Ala-chua County Fairgrounds. The Roller Rebels held the event to recruit new skaters, nonskater ofﬁ  cials and referees to build the league in Gainesville.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
The newly renovated Yon Hall 
held its grand opening Friday 
morning.
Its renovations began last De-
cember to expand research proj-ects and attract new researchers to UF’s College of Health and Hu-
man Performance. The $1.4 mil-lion expansion includes new of-
ﬁ  ce spaces for research, as well as a bar-style alcohol lab to study substance abuse.
“They didn’t have enough 
space to do what they wanted to,” said Christine Coombes, di-rector of communications for the college.
She said 70 people RSVP’d to 
the grand opening of Yon Hall, which had been open before but closed because of problems with the electrical system and asbes-tos.
In the last 50 years, Yon Hall 
has served many roles, said Mi-chael Reid, dean of the college.
Yon originally operated as a 
residence hall for male athletes until a National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association ruling abolished 
athletic residence halls. In 1996, the college’s Living Well Faculty and Staff Wellness Center was moved to the building. In 2014, Living Well closed and the build-ing was renovated for Health and Human Performance research, 
according to the UF Foundation 
website.
“Today, you get to see the re-
born result,” Reid said at the cer-emony.
UF health education and be-
havior senior Nicole Morgan, who attended the grand opening, said she is excited for the renovations.
She said she might try doing 
substance-abuse research in one of Yon’s alcohol research labs.
Tom Clanton, a professor of 
applied physiology and kinesiol-ogy, said the hall is completely different now than it was a few months ago.
It’s not an evolution, he said, 
“It’s a revolution.”
Yon Hall celebrates grand opening after renovations
It cost $1.4 million to expand the hall
“They didn’t have enough 
space to do what they wanted 
to.”
 Christine Coombes
director of communications4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Near the steps of Griffin-Floyd Hall, there’s 
a sign.
“Please do not eat Krishna Lunch on the 
steps nor inside Griffin Floyd Hall. Thank you 
very much,” it reads.
Maria Dominicis, a UF nursing senior, said 
she was annoyed when she first saw it. 
When it rains, she prefers sitting on the 
steps instead of the muddy grass.
“I just think it’s stupid,” the 20-year-old 
said. “There’s such limited seating in the pla-za.”
Limited seating on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas will be taken care of in an upcoming plaza 
renovation, UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email.
The renovation — headed by the UF Foun-
dation, the fundraising arm of UF that private donations go through — will cost from $1.65 million to $2.1 million, and will bring a stu-dent-organization service area, a central pre-sentation platform, additional bench seating, tables and improved Wi-Fi, Orlando said.
The Foundation has partnered with Krishna 
House to raise funds for the project, said the chaplain and manager of Krishna House, Carl Woodham.
“We have such a long-standing relationship 
with the university,” he said.
The renovation will also bring a designated 
area for Krishna Lunch to be served, Wood-ham said.
The Foundation is also working with UF Li-
braries to seek support for a combined Plaza of the Americas and Library West entrance reno-vation, Orlando said.
The renovation doesn’t have a start or end 
date yet, but the Foundation is working on the 
official timeline, Orlando said. 
The planning was finalized about a year 
and a half ago, and small modifications have 
been added since then.
Orlando said this renovation will be ben-
eficial for students and make the plaza more functional and beautiful. 
It will ensure people are sitting in the grass 
instead of the dirt.
 Plaza of the Americas renovation makes room for Krishna
Rosy Roberts/Alligator
Brian David Schwartz, a UF telecommunication sophomore, chows down on Krishna 
lunch on the steps of Griffin-Floyd Hall on Sept. 3. Students are banned from eating on the stairs to prepare for extra seating renovations. 
CAMPUS
By Beatriz Martinez
Alligator Writer
UF’s Hispanic Heritage Month 
will kick off its celebrations today.  
Although the university’s HHM 
organization is cutting down its 
events, there will be more of a 
variety, said Susel Ramos, 20, the 
HHM executive director. Instead of mainly focusing on bringing speak-ers like it did last year, the group will host a mix of events from a carnival to a pageant to a talent show, said Ramos, a UF interna-tional studies and French senior.
This year’s HHM theme is 
“Paving Our Visions, Creando Un Futuro,” said Camila Rodriguez, HHM external programming di-rector. The theme relates to His-panic history and  also shows what people are going through now, the 20-year-old said.
“This month we want to pro-vide events not only for ourselves but for those who come after us,” the UF public relations junior said.
HHM’s opening ceremony will 
be today at Emerson Alumni Hall. Doors open at 6 p.m., and the 
event starts at 6:30 p.m., Ramos 
said. The ceremony will feature Hispanic poet and speaker Gabri-ela Garcia Medina.  At the event, the HHM concert artist will be an-nounced. The artist will perform Oct. 2 at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, Ramos said.
“It’s a great way to remember 
our roots and that we have a play in history,” she said.Hispanic Heritage 
Month starts today
he said. “It’s easier to meet more here in a 
more established community.”
A large group of girls stood to his left. 
Almost all of them were from New York and couldn’t return home to celebrate.
“I’m looking forward to feeling like we’re 
home,” said Jamie Goldstein, an 18-year-old UF finance freshman celebrating her first Rosh Hashana without her family.
About 450 people sat in the synagogue 
for services, with boys on one side of the room and girls on the other.
Boys wore orange-and-blue kippahs on 
their heads and button-down shirts and ties. Girls wore dresses.
Rabbi Berl Goldman led the sermon, ref-erencing important passages in the Torah as he spoke. A rabbi beside him rocked backward and forward, leading the room in song.
“We pray for a better time for the whole 
world,” he said after the services. “Rosh Hashana is a good time to pray for that — personal things, health, relationships and needs for the whole year.”
The men and women then mingled for 
dinner.The dinner cost about $10,000, Goldman 
said. Funding comes from alumni and other supporters, and Lubavitch-Chabad raises close to $1 million per year for its programs.
At UF Hillel, Rabbi Adam Grossman said 
between dinner and services, more than 400 community members celebrated as one.
The UF Hillel staff took a new approach, 
hosting a dinner before busing attendees to one of two synagogues: B’nai Israel, a con-servative denomination, and Shir Shalom, a Reform denomination.
Grossman said he hoped this approach 
would inspire unity within Gainesville’s Jewish community.
“You have this student population and 
this general population that exists, and they don’t typically interact,” he said. “We want to give an opportunity to bridge that space so students and community members can come together as one to worship together.”
Brett Dembrow, a UF business freshman, 
celebrated Rosh Hashana at UF Hillel for the first time.
Dembrow, 18, said he was excited for 
the opportunity to attend the service at Shir Shalom.
“I think it’s good they’re trying to inte-
grate the young community with the rest of Gainesville,” he said.
Both centers will continue to hold obser-
vations of the holidays today and Tuesday and will also hold Yom Kippur services next week for anyone interested.
“Just like the doors to heaven are open 
to all,” Goldman said, “our doors are open to all.”
NEW YEAR,  from pg1About 450 people went to Chabad for Rosh Hashana services By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
In 2011, Rebecca Fitzsimmons 
was a University of South Florida 
graduate student scanning early pictures of Florida for the Matheson History Museum.
In 2015, she is now the museum’s 
newest curator and archivist.
Fitzsimmons was finishing her 
grant-funded tenure at George A. Smathers Libraries when she got the call from Betsy Albury, the president 
of the museum’s board of directors. 
She accepted the job and its $42,500 yearly salary on one condition: She could delay her start until Sept. 1 to finish a project. They agreed, as long as she began curating for an exhibit they hoped to complete by the begin-ning of September.  
“I was very excited,” Fitzsim-
mons said. “It’s a really great mu-seum and in the several decades it’s been around, they’ve done a tremen-dous job.”
Until September, Fitzsimmons 
balanced two projects. By day, she worked with Smathers’ “Panama and the Canal” collection as the in-terim exhibits coordinator, updating records and choosing pieces of the exhibit. By night, she worked on the 
newest Matheson exhibit, “Saving 
the Sunshine State,” and researched women leaders from 20th-century Florida.
Fitzsimmon and the new exhibit 
made their debut at Matheson on Sept. 1. Under Fitzsimmon’s direc-
tion, the free ex-hibit examines 
the contributions 
of six Floridian 
women, includ-ing Zora Neale Hurston and Mar-jory Stoneman Douglas, and in-cludes additional 
features such as tours and readings 
for which visitors can pay from $5 
to $60.
“Each one of these women im-
pacted the state in such profound ways that, really, the Florida that you look around and see now is largely the result of the kind of work they were doing,” Fitzsimmons said.
Peggy Macdonald, executive di-
rector at the museum, said the ex-hibit was important because Flori-da’s history — in particular that of women — tends to be overlooked.  
With regards to the environmen-
tal activism of the 20th century, she said, most people look toward men like Teddy Roosevelt without accounting for the impact women made.
“Women were the foot soldiers 
of the conservation movement,” she said.
Beyond the exhibit, one of 
Fitzsimmons’ primary goals as head curator is to foster more engagement and dialogue among her audience.  
“Otherwise, you go back to that 
place where museums are sort of this quiet, almost church-like space,” she said. “Where you go in and you don’t talk, and you just read and 
look, and walk and leave.”
For Macdonald, Fitzsimmons’ 
hiring couldn’t have come at a more 
ideal time, even though she had to share her with a library for a couple of months beforehand.
She thinks Fitzsimmons’ exper-
tise and dedication will help propel the museum to the next level.
“I thought she was worth waiting 
for,” she said.
New curator, exhibit at Matheson
Fitzsimmons
“It’s a great way to remember 
our roots and that we have a 
play in history.”
Susel Ramos
Hispanic Heritage Month 
executive director
“W e want to give an opportunity 
to bridge that space so students 
and community members can come 
together as one to worship together.”
Rabbi Adam Grossman
 CEO of UF HillelMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Florida Highway Patrol arrest-
ed a Palatka man Thursday after-
noon after he reportedly ran from 
police during a traffic stop and 
had about 40 grams of cocaine.
About 3 p.m. Thursday, Edwin 
L. Brown, 32, was pulled over in 
the Kangaroo parking lot off of 
State Road 121 for not wearing a seat belt, according to a police report.
He reportedly used a fake 
name before showing a driver’s license which had been expired for more than eight years, accord-ing to the report.
Brown and his passenger ran 
after the officer tried to remove a hard object from Brown’s front pocket, according to the report.
A trooper found Brown walk-
ing away from a dumpster after a witness called about a man run-ning behind Publix, according to the report. The passenger was never found.
GPD spokesman Officer Ben 
Tobias said criminals often get desperate to escape. 
“They’ll get very desperate, 
and to avoid capture they will go 
to very extreme 
measures,” he said.
The troop-
er also found about 40 grams of cocaine near 
where the wit-
ness said Brown 
threw something, according to the report.
Police arrested Brown on 
charges of resisting an officer, co-caine possession, cocaine traffick-ing and tampering with evidence along with two counts of possess-
ing a controlled substance and 
two traffic violations.
Authorities took Brown to the 
Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a 
$330,500 bond.Florida man arrested 
for cocaine possessionBy Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
deputies arrested a UF student dur-
ing Saturday’s football game after he reportedly punched an officer.
At about 8:30 p.m. Saturday, 
Tyler R. Sweetman, 19, reportedly tried to enter Gate 14 of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium when an officer turned him away for being intoxi-cated, according to a police report.
Sweetman continued toward 
the gate and away from ticket staff. When an officer tried to stop Sweet-man, he pulled away and punched the officer in his right hand, accord-ing to the report.
Sweetman continued to re-
sist the officer even after being forced onto the 
ground, accord-
ing to the report.
Sweetman is 
listed as a stu-
dent in the UF Directory.
Police ar-
rested Sweetman on charges of battery on an officer and resisting 
an officer. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail and he was 
released Sunday afternoon on his own recognizance. He declined to comment. 
Sweetman was one of four peo-
ple arrested during the game, with the other three arrests listed as pos-
session of a fake ID or trespassing 
after a warning.
Police also ejected 28 others. Of 
those ejections, 11 were students, according to a police report. Alco-hol possession is given as the rea-son for nine ejections, followed by ejections for intoxication, disorderly conduct, ticket switching, standing 
on seats and not having a ticket. Student punched officer, arrested
SUBWAY SAID IT DID NOT IMPL Y 
SEXUAL OR CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
INDIANAPOLIS — The Subway restaurant chain 
said it received a “serious” complaint about Jared Fogle 
when he was the company’s spokesman, but the com-plaint did not imply any criminal sexual activity.
The company issued a statement Friday saying it 
has completed an internal investigation into whether it was alerted to concerns about Fogle, who agreed last month to plead guilty to having paid for sex acts with girls as young as 16 and receiving child pornography. Subway spokeswoman Kristen McMahon said the 
company received the “serious” complaint in 2011 
from Rochelle Herman-Walrond, a former journalist 
from Florida who revealed publicly to WWSB-TV in Sarasota last month that she also took her concerns to the FBI. McMahon said the 2011 complaint “expressed concerns about Mr. Fogle” but included “nothing that implied anything about sexual behavior or criminal ac-tivity involving Mr. Fogle.” Nevertheless, the company said in its statement it regrets that the complaint was “not properly escalated or acted upon.”
“It is important to note that the investigation found 
no further evidence of any other complaints of any kind regarding Mr. Fogle that were submitted to or shared with SUBWAY,” the company said.Jared Fogle complaint ‘serious’Brown
Sweetman
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Hangovers over 
the ages: drinking 
responsibly in college   
Hangovers. A considerable portion of students here in 
Gainesville get them, and those who do are intimately familiar with what they entail: the premature awak-enings brought about by intense thirst at 7 a.m., the searing pain in the left hemisphere of your brain and 
the lingering pangs of regret that bob around in your head as you shower off the sweat from the night before.
For those who are discovering the joys of alcohol for the 
first time in college, the idea of a hangover — or worse, black-ing out — can be a romantic one. After all, what is a hangover if not an indicator of a fun-filled evening of youthful hedo-nism?
This is an easy, and unfortunate, trap to fall into. Being a 
new sensation, one’s initial hangovers are often dramatic and full of empty promises; you’ll say things like, “Wow, I’ll never do THAT again!” before spitting up into your hand at Bagels & Noodles, embarrassing yourself and your equally hungover friends. 
You might find yourself swearing off certain drinks, pro-
claiming, “Tito’s? More like BOZO’s!”
We’ve all been there: Claiming you’ll change your ways 
whilst in the throes of a hangover is a classic rookie mistake that we all need to go through in order to become a more hon-est individual. 
Much like saying tomorrow is the day you’ll finally start 
working out, or that starting tonight you’re going to make it a point to call your grandmother more often, saying you’ll alter your behavior while still reeling from the effects of alcohol is a “Pollyanna” ideal at best and self-deceiving at worst.
Many of us in the Alligator office are upperclassmen. Out-
side of genuinely dangerous and self-destructive behavior, not much surprises us at this point in our college careers — with regards to drunken debauchery. 
This is because experience comes with age. Once you’ve 
been in college for a few years, the desire to impress your friends by doing a keg stand for 15 seconds fades away. You come to learn that whether you drink half a bottle of Barefoot or the entire thing, you’re probably going to have the same amount of fun. 
Deciding against chugging the bottle comes with the added 
bonus of not feeling like a higher deity is unjustly punishing you the next morning.
When enjoyed safely, alcohol can be a blast. With that said, 
don’t feel pressured to “go hard” and certainly don’t lie to yourself while feeling crappy the next morning; the commit-ment to drinking less is one that has to be made in a totally sober state of mind. What may seem like a good idea in the wee hours (read: scores of Peppermint Schnapps and Irish car bombs) can often negatively affect one’s performance during the daytime when we have an assortment of tasks to accom-plish and places to be. 
Most juniors and seniors had to learn this the hard way; it 
is our hope that through our words of wisdom, impressionable freshmen and sophomores will think much harder before par-taking in the Devil’s water.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
As discussions of race and ethnicity 
permeate the coverage of the presi-dential elections and refugee crisis, it 
is clear many people remain unaware 
of the basic definitions that inform 
the conversation.
A lack of awareness of the definitions 
means many people think race and ethnicity are interchangeable. Many forms, including the one on UF’s health insurance waiver, only allow one choice of “ethnicity” — but it’s not really eth-nicity, as it is asking for one’s race.
In many ways, such broad classifications don’t make 
sense. Particularly for Asian communities, it would make sense to split up the data by ethnicity, meaning the culture a person belongs to. Koreans may not feel like 
they belong to the same group as Chinese people. Some 
communities of Asians are better off than others. In the Latinx community, there are similar problems because distinct cultures are not recognized, well, distinctly.
Race, of course, is a social construction, but that 
doesn’t mean it’s not real. In the U.S., the definition of what it means to be American has changed over time. There was a time when Irish-Americans were not consid-ered white. Although it may seem ridiculous now, they 
faced rampant discrimination. Many Irish-Americans, 
however, still retain a strong ethnic identity to this day.
While it’s easy to get confused by this terminology, 
here is a basic guideline: Both identity and how some-one is perceived are important parts of who they are. So, 
that means even though you may perceive someone as 
white, he or she may identify with another race. Or, you might perceive someone as black, but he or she might also identify as Latinx. 
Identity is a complex thing. A perceived ethnicity or 
race can cause someone to be exposed to microaggres-sions targeted at his or her identity. People might think it’s “safe” to say racist things be-cause they don’t think a person of that race is 
within their midst.
Statements like “Hispanics are technically 
white,” reveal a shallow understanding of the 
intersection of race and culture. That’s simply 
not the case. There are native Spanish speak-
ers of all races.
The value of statistics is undisputed — it 
lets us see where problems lie and problems that may be affecting the population. Categories are necessary 
to group the data and make it more meaningful. If we 
removed racial and ethnic categories, it would show a distorted picture which ignores the effects of discrimina-tion and lack of institutional power. But the categories 
should reflect how groups actually identify themselves. 
Some who have traditionally been labeled as Hispanic 
are now rejecting the term in favor of the more inclusive 
Latinx, which includes countries which speak French, Spanish, or Portuguese in South and Central America 
and the Caribbean.
Saying acknowledging race causes division among 
us does not make it so. Judgments are still made on 
the basis of skin color and ethnicity. “We’re just one 
race — the human race!” No. To make that assertion is 
to erase the experience of racism many people of color face. While Bobby Jindal might think rejecting the label of “Indian-American” will make the U.S. more unified, it actually feeds a colorblind, racist ideology. America 
is still fractured due to race and the institutional pow-
er that comes with it. Broad-sweeping generalizations about race are still common and are considered “the truth” behind political correctness.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.While intertwined, race and ethnicity are distinct
Nicole Dan
Speaking OutMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Recently, an Alligator editorial apolo-
gized for a column the newspaper published. In the appropriately 
titled column, “Mediocre Advice,” 
the writer joked, because it is dif-
ﬁ  cult to get a tan in Gainesville due to the daily downpour of rain, being “pale is bet-
ter.”
Now, if I were to take an extremely nar-
row view of the column, rip away the origi-
nal intent of the author and use knee-jerk reasoning, the column would be one of the most offensive state-
ments I’ve read in months, if not in years.
If I read the column as a whole, add the charitably 
humorous intent of the author and take the article 
with the same grain of salt with which I read any-
thing, I will seamlessly move on with my day.        
However, because we college students are all en-
lightened individuals tasked with defending truth, 
justice, equality and the American way, we must take offense to this inane remark, take it out of context 
and create controversy where none exists. And that’s 
exactly what happened.
This is yet another example of political correctness 
run amok. This is why comedians like Jerry Seinfeld, Chris Rock, Amy Schumer and Bill Maher worry each 
time they perform on college campuses. This is why 
we can’t have nice things.  
To avert — I can only assume — the imminent 
boycott of the Alligator, the torrential lawsuits from 
the American Civil Liberties Union and the calling-
in of MSNBC news trucks, the Alligator published a “mea culpa.” After all, this example of faux outrage is a “teachable moment.”  
In the editorial, the Alligator realized the column 
“upset and hurt a considerable number of students and readers,” and “words, no matter how well inten-tioned, can have dire consequences.” From now on, the paper will try to be “more con-siderate and aware of the language used in 
our articles.”    
However, I will not be as considerate. In 
the following paragraphs, I will put forth 
the most daring, controversial and bold re-
tort to the political correctness which has 
engulfed our college campuses. No sacred cows will be safe. After all is said and done, 
I can be conﬁ  dent I will have a place on the Donald Trump-presidential ticket or at least a high-level cabi-
net position next to Sarah Palin. Due to my remarks, 
I will make this campus great again. My column will be brutal. It will be merciless. It will shock. And it will enrage.   
I’ve been advised to make a few precautions.Firstly, I’d like to issue some trigger warnings. If 
you have heart conditions, have self-righteousness is-sues, are prone to outrage or don’t like newspaper columns, you probably shouldn’t read on. Like I said: 
This column will be brutal. And merciless. It will 
shock. And it will enrage. Please be advised.
Secondly, I’ve been advised to apologize for the 
things I haven’t yet said but will. Despite the fact 
that I haven’t really initiated my John Cena-esque 
takedown of the politically correct culture, just the thought of doing so will make some people unhappy. For that, I am sorry.
I know we live in enlightened times. I know opin-
ions that differ from the norm shouldn’t really be said. My eventual remarks are just an example of my sense of self-entitlement, an exercise of my overblown nar-cissism. For that, I apologize.
I know that if I don't boil at least one person’s 
blood today, I’m not really doing my job as a col-umnist. Like the Alligator editorial said, I need to be more compassionate. Again, I am sorry.
And ﬁ  nally, I’ve been advised not to engage in my 
brutal and merciless takedown of the politically cor-rect culture because it would not be politically correct. Doing so would cause irreparable harm. My words will unfortunately have consequences. It seems as 
though all of my posturing has been in vain. It seems 
as though this whole column has all been for naught. But you know what? At least this will be a “teachable moment” for all of us.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Political correctness not a bastion of goodColumn
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org Emrah Sahin is the Turkish studies lecturer at UF’s Cen-ter for European Studies. For 
our full interview on Otto-
mans, Islam, Syria and more, 
visit ceseurogator.blogspot.com/.
AM: Why is Turkish studies housed 
in UF’s Center for European Studies?
ES: A Turk probably couldn’t 
say if he is Middle Eastern or Euro-pean. Politically and economically, if not socially or culturally, 
Turkey is part of Euro-
pean civilization.
AM: Politically, is 
Turkey becoming less Eu-
ropean?
ES: Turkey’s journey 
into the EU is check-
ered. In the early 1990s, the EU began to dictate 
conditions (beyond the 
Copenhagen criteria) for Turkey. But Turks have always wanted to be in the European civilization, a sym-
bol of modernity. They are not less 
European than new EU member na-tions.
AM: When did Turkey begin emu-
lating Europe?
ES: From 1839 to the 1870s, the 
Tanzimat reforms sought to cure the Ottoman Empire, the sick man of Europe, by modernizing the state, 
army, society and the administration.
AM: What is it about Turkish Islam 
that makes it the only Muslim democ-
racy?
ES: Muhammed structured the 
first Islamic state upon democratic tenets. But the Turkish model be-came successful paradoxically by the introduction of secularism by 
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, Turkey’s 
leading founder. Today, secularism also preserves the right to religion. Referencing EU standards of non-interference in religion, the govern-
ment permitted religious symbols on 
campuses. So, Turkey historically ap-plied a strict form of secularism, but the groups that hold power define it. 
When Turkey abolished the caliph-
ate in 1924, several Ottoman-educat-ed scholars revolted. The republican founders changed the dress code and replaced the Arabic alphabet with 
the Latin version. Secularism proved 
strict for the first generation who went through this top-down revolu-tion.
AM: By the time of Atatürk’s revo-
lution, was there already a solid Turkish identity?
ES: Yes, but the republic re-
framed it around a racial, linguistic 
and cultural unity. Atatürk’s Prime 
Minister, Ismet Inonu, declared any citizen in Turkey to be a Turk. This did not reflect the desire to "Turkify" 
the Kurds. The current government 
reminded the Kurds and the Turks of their common religion and collective memory. But the conflict goes deep-er. The Justice and Development 
Party (Ak Partİ), having won its first 
electoral victory in 2002, actively pursued EU directives, including lib-erties to Kurds. Later, it abandoned reconciliation with the pro-indepen-
dence Kurdistan Labor Party (PKK), 
partly because of the events in Syria and PKK reactions.
AM: Why is it strategic for the Ak 
Partİ to turn against the Kurds now?
ES: The People’s Democratic 
Party (HDP) argues for reforms but still represents Kurdish indepen-
dence. On June 7, HDP 
won 13.12 percent of the 
popular vote and 80 par-liament seats. Ak Partİ cadres seemed frustrated 
by PKK negotiations and 
unilaterally ended talks. I fear that political intol-erance might affect the larger, favorable Turkish 
perception of the Kurds.
AM: How do you think Ak Partİ’s 
recent policies affect their chances of 
EU accession?
ES: They shelved the EU in the 
2010s. [President Recep Tayyip] Erdoğan got exhausted with EU ex-pectations.
AM: Do you think that Turkey is 
becoming more conservative across the board, or just the Ak Partİ?
ES: Turkey has polarized along 
ethnic, political, and religious lines. 
Erdoğan has recently waged a battle 
against the more liberal Islamist Gül-enist movement, calling them the parallel state. Other political battles broke out against PKK, HDP and the 
National Movement Party (MHP).
AM: The UNHCR estimates that by 
the end of 2015, there will be 1.7 million 
Syrian refugees and asylum seekers in 
Turkey.
ES: Turkish sources confirm it 
is already 2 million. It’s no longer a 
refugee problem; it’s Turkey’s next minority problem.
AM: Will Syria’s Ottoman past will 
help them integrate?
ES: Syria was part of the semi-
independent province of Damascus. 
People spoke Arabic and worked 
outside of domestic Ottoman agri-cultural and commercial networks. Today’s minority problem exacer-bates political instability and regional 
insecurity; Syrian refugees are every-
where. We face a language barrier, economic situation and unregulated settlement. Turkey expected the EU 
to help.
AM: Sweden said it would take all of 
them.
ES: We’ll see. As when it opened 
its arms to oppressed Jews, Turkey has opened the border. But border 
towns are not thrilled because the refugee flow destroys their business and because ISIL is targeting their 
towns. It is an unfinished story and 
we will see in 2016 how it will be re-solved, if it can ever be.
Ann Manov is a UF French, 
English and Spanish senior. Her 
column appears on Mondays.An inside look at Ottomans, 
Islam, Syria and TurkeyColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
“This is why comedians like 
Jerry Seinfeld, Chris Rock, 
Amy Schumer and Bill 
Maher worry each time they 
perform on college campuses."8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student Center and the Lubavitch-
Chabad Student Group set up a memorial board and replica twin towers for the Sept. 11 victims on Turlington Plaza on Friday. Repre-sentatives of the center and club urged students to write down good deeds on slips of paper and attach them to the display.LEFT: 
Jonathan Joseph (left), a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, and Dylan Ko-vach, a 20-year-old UF horticul-tural science junior, write down their good deeds for the day in re-membrance of Sept. 11 on Friday. Joseph said he would call his par-ents to tell them he loved them. Kovach will plant marigolds in the teaching gardens at Fiﬁ  eld Hall in honor of the victims.
TOP RIGHT: 
Arik Benlevy, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance sophomore, helps stu-dents post their good deeds on the twin towers memorial table on Friday during the 9/11 Good Deed Marathon. He is a part of the Lubavitch-Chabad Student Group that wanted to honor the victims and heroes of the Sept. 11 attack. “The whole thing is inspir-ing to see everyone come togeth-er, ” Benlevy said. “We need hope and light in this world. ”
BOTTOM RIGHT: 
Graham McInnes, a 23-year-old history and environmental sci-ence junior, rubs a sticker with his good deed on the Sept. 11 me-morial board Friday. He said he would call his grandparents.Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Emma Green / AlligatorMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
By Lexie Bajalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Friday afternoon, UF senior Sierra 
McVeigh saw a replica of the twin towers 
on Turlington Plaza.
She was one of more than 911 people to 
write a good deed on a piece of paper and 
tack it to one of the towers.
The Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student 
Center and the Chabad-Lubavitch Student 
Group hosted their annual 9/11 Good Deed Marathon — an event they’ve been putting on for more than 10 years, said Rabbi Aaron Notik, who was helping with the event.
The two hosting groups created the event 
to encourage people to add positivity to a 
dark day, Notik said.
“Fourteen years ago on this day, the 
world became a darker place, as we all 
know too well,” he said. “Our tradition teaches us that the best way to dispel that darkness is with light and, you know, good-ness and positivity.”
It was McVeigh’s ﬁ  rst time adding a good 
deed to the towers.
“I think it’s nice that people are still re-
membering it and not forgetting that it hap-pened,” the 21-year-old said. “In general, I think that it’s good to think about doing a good deed every day.”
Notik said students were the ones be-
hind the marathon. They rotated shifts dur-ing classes and encouraged people to ﬁ  ll out good deed forms.
“A small measure of light can dispel a 
huge amount of darkness,” he said.Arik Benlevy, 19, a member of the 
Chabad-Lubavitch Student Group, said the group’s goal was to get 911 people to pledge 
to do good deeds — and they surpassed it.  
At the end of the event, good deeds were plastered all over the towers.
“I love bringing light into this world, and 
that’s why I do it,” Benlevy said. “I love see-ing everyone come together for a common cause.”Good deeds add positivity at UF
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
The people stood around Patriot’s Circle 
at Santa Fe College.
All was silent.Three men wearing blue blazers and 
khakis approached the ﬂ  agpole where an 
American ﬂ  ag ﬂ  uttered at half-staff. One 
raised his trumpet and played a sorrowful tune.
The other two lowered the ﬂ  ag. Then, 
one folded and passed it to Kaleb Griffel, a U.S. Marines veteran.
To a crowd of about 75 at Friday morn-
ing’s remembrance ceremony, Griffel re-called the moment he saw the second plane 
strike the north tower. He was a senior in 
high school, already set on joining the mili-tary. The towers’ fall only solidiﬁ  ed the de-cision.
At 10:28 a.m., he called for a moment of 
silence to honor the lives lost that day and those killed in the “War on Terror.”
Griffel served in the U.S. Marines for 12 
years and did two tours in Iraq as a combat 
engineer.
“My fellow brothers- and sisters-in-arms 
have all fought to honor those lives lost 14 
years ago today,” the 32-year-old said.
The ceremony is held annually by Santa 
Fe’s Collegiate Veterans Society.
“Everybody forgets birthdays and an-
niversaries,” said Griffel, a member of the veterans society. “I take it upon my shoul-
ders to remind people of what came before so that we can remember those lives that 
we lost.”
After receiving the ﬂ  ag, Griffel present-
ed it to Jeff Mohr, franchise owner of the campus Subway, for the work done to fund scholarships for military veterans.
“I’m very appreciative of the fact that 
people do sign up voluntarily, put their life on hold, put their families’ lives on hold, so that everybody else in America can run their daily lives,” Mohr said.
Griffel wasn’t the only one who chose 
to join the military after 9/11. Victor Vega was 7 when he watched the towers fall on the television, his mother, Milly Ruiz-Tay-lor, said.
Vega’s father worked three blocks from 
the towers. At that moment, Ruiz-Taylor feared the unknown: Was Vega’s father okay? Would there be another attack? She didn’t know.
So, she and Vega prayed. Shortly there-
after, Vega made a choice.
“Mom, I want to serve my country just 
like Daddy did,” Ruiz-Taylor recalled her 
son saying.
She carried a photo of her son, now 
stationed at Langley Air Force Base in Vir-
ginia, in a dress uniform.
“He is so selﬂ  ess,” Ruiz-Taylor said. 
“It’s truly almost like angelic, he just puts others before himself all the time.”
Shortly after the ceremony concluded 
and the crowd walked away, a ﬂ  ag stood 
once more at half-staff, its stars and stripes 
waving in the air.Santa Fe honors those who servedStudents celebrate life and remember lives lost on 9/11MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
13 Wanted 12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, 
click on the employment tab on the bottom 
right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-
9-14
352 Inc. is looking for a rockstar admin 
to work 20-25 hrs/week Mon-Fri. in a fun and creative working environment. Looking for someone who is proactive, reliable and hardworking. If interested please send re-sume and schedule to lclifton@352inc.com.    9-14-15-5-14
Documentary Filmmaking ProjectTeam or individual to film and produce a documentary on the life and comeback of a veteran mma fighter, think "smashing ma-chine" meets "cinderella man", for more info email showtimesportsmngmt@gmail.com   9-18-15-6-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD MONDAY, SEPT. 21, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
9-18-15-5-14
Wanted: Computer ProgrammerFamiliar with PHP and data collectionswww.goldendomefund.orgcall for more info. 229-247-5285    9-18-15-5-14
Middle School Tutor/Organizational helper Wanted to assist 2 or 3 times a week, pri-marily with organizational skills and some general tutoring. The tutoring is for 2 middle school girls attending Florida Virtual School full-time. Hours are flexible, one or 2 hours a sitting. $15-$20 an hour. Contact kelley.phil-lips@gmail.com    9-18-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15Remove Unwanted Hair TodayHalf-off laser hair removal50% off your first treatment352-333-FACE (352-333-3223)
Visit www.gainesvilleflderm.com    9-18-15-
5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Sincerity Community Care
do you need companion care or home maker 
services for you or a loved one contact us 
at 3523010249 or sinceritycare@gmail.com    
9-17-15-5-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
FREE FLIRTY CHAIR DANCE CLASS
This Thursday, September 17th, 6pm. The 
Lingerie Company 2614 SW 34th St. Call 
today to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    
9-17-15-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
"MK needs to win this, not even a question #TeamMK"
Max Garcia on Miss America Pageant 2016
@MGarcia_76
Former UF offnsive lineman
Florida's men's golf team 
ﬁ  nished in seventh place in its ﬁ  rst tournament of the Fall season. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sportsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports. Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Alex Anzalone pursues East Carolina tight end Stephen Baggett during the Gators' 31-24 win against the Pirates on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
GATORS SCORED TWO GOALS IN 
FIRST FIVE MINUTES. 
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
It didn’t take long for the Florida soccer 
team to show that it was clicking on all cyl-
inders in Sunday’s match against Jacksonville University. 
The No. 10 Gators (5-2-0) scored two goals 
in the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve minutes of the match en-route to beating the Dolphins (1-5-1) 4-0. 
Junior midﬁ  elder Meggie Dougherty How-
ard sent the ball into the box in the third min-ute to junior forward Savannah Jordan, which deﬂ  ected off a JU defender and into the back of the net.
The Gators’ second goal was scored in the 
ﬁ  fth minute by Jordan on a cross from senior defender Christen Westphal. 
Coach Becky Burleigh said she challenged 
her team to get off to a quick start against Jack-sonville following the Gators’ 2-1 loss to No. 6 Texas A&M on Thursday.  
Burleigh said the focus going into Sunday’s 
match was to break the game up into smaller 
portions. 
“We talked about resilience and needing to 
bounce back,” Burleigh said. “We also tried to 
divide the ﬁ  rst half into two halves and said we needed to win each of those halves so it was a pretty big emphasis on winning the period.”
After the fast start, the Gators struck again 
in the 20th minute when junior forward 
Brooke Sharp put the ball in the back of the net off a Kristen Cardano cross. 
The shots continued to 
come for the Gators as they amassed 17 shots during the ﬁ  rst 45 minutes of play.
The Gators fourth goal 
of the match came in the 
34th minute when junior 
midﬁ  elder Pamela Begic headed a Rachelle Smith cross past the Jacksonville goalkeeper’s ﬁ  ngertips. 
Burleigh said that the team wanted to con-tinue to attack the goal despite the large lead the Gators built early. 
“Well I don’t think they ever stopped at-
tacking the goal, so that was a good thing,” Burleigh said. “They were pretty relentless. We had some great serves in the box and I thought the Jacksonville keeper did a good job of keep-ing the ball out of the net in the second half.”
Despite no shortage of offensive chances for 
the Gators, Burleigh said the team still needs to get better, but was happy with the team’s unity. 
“I think that my only disappointment in 
the game was that we didn’t win each of the periods,” Burleigh said. “The second two we 
UF soccer gets back to winning ways against JacksonvilleINSTAGRAHAM
Jim McElwain couldn’t mask his emotions.
Florida’s ﬁ  rst-
year coach was 
openly upset about a lack of discipline displayed during the Gators’ closer-than-it-should-have-been 31-24 victory against East Carolina on Saturday night.
He could have trotted out to the 
lectern, put on a fake smile and 
praised the team’s ability to win. 
But he didn’t. 
McElwain went the hell off.“It’s not OK to call attention to 
yourself when the selﬁ  sh act hurts the whole team,” McElwain said. 
The coach didn’t refer to him by 
name, but he was likely referenc-ing the unsportsmanlike conduct 
penalty accrued by Kelvin Taylor.
The junior had just capped a 
touchdown with a quick yet bla-
tant throat-slash gesture — a harm-less offense but a taunt, and subse-quent penalty, nonetheless.
Cameras caught McElwain rip-
ping into Taylor on the sidelines, reminiscent of the anger that was a 
common occurrence under former 
UF coach Will Muschamp.
The video went viral, and a cell-
phone clip of the tirade emerged soon after which revealed McEl-wain’s diatribe wasn’t appropriate dinner conversation.
In the ensuing hours, McElwain 
has been torn apart by media and 
fans alike, but I don’t understand 
why.It would be naïve to 
think coaches talk to collegiate athletes like they’re in elementary school.
There are more effec-
tive methods of motiva-tion, and many of them involve dropping a few F-bombs when your les-son falls upon deaf ears. 
Advocating discipline coolly must not have worked on Taylor and Co.
McElwain has preached disci-
pline, calmly, to the media and in meetings with players. The team has said they want to shed the stigma that the Gators are undisci-plined.
“Over the last 10 years, most 
penalized team in the league, in the country,” McElwain said. “We’ve got to learn.”
I have no problem with McEl-
wain’s tongue lashing, nor do I have a problem with him being livid following a victory.
He wants the Gators to be re-
strained and intelligent, and he’s having to overhaul a culture that tolerated mindless penalties.
For a coach in his ﬁ  rst year at 
a new university inheriting a group of players who committed to a pre-vious UF coaching regime, some-times yelling is all you can do.
Maybe McElwain was at his 
wits end with the showboating, the personal fouls and the unfocused play. 
Championship teams prepare 
every day to be the best, but the McElwain's anger is 
necessary if Florida hopes 
to ﬁ  x undisciplined program 
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
While the Gators are still 
searching for a long-term answer 
at quarterback on offense, there is concern about the quarterback of their defense.
Junior linebacker Alex Anza-
lone, one of the defensive lead-ers and the primary signal-caller on the ﬁ  eld this season, suffered a shoulder injury during the ﬁ  rst half of the game against East Caro-lina and did not return.
Anzalone had major shoulder 
surgery during the Spring of 2013, 
making the injury even more wor-
risome.
The junior underwent X-rays 
in the locker room, and his team-
mates didn’t seem too optimistic 
about his status.
“I saw his parents in there and 
they didn’t really look too excit-
ed,” junior linebacker Jarrad Da-
vis said.“I didn’t know what they were 
thinking.
“To see him go down like that, 
that hurts my heart because I know what he put in.”
Despite playing in all 12 games 
in 2014, Anzalone saw limited playing time as a backup lineback-
er and on special teams, recording 
14 tackles.
In Florida’s season opener 
against New Mexico State, Anza-lone was one of three players to 
lead the team with ﬁ  ve tackles.
Goolsby seizing opportu-
nity: Tight ends are proving to Starting linebacker sidelined again
Tight end emerging 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Burleigh
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
with understanding that selfish acts hurt the 
team and it will be dealt with and that’s not how it’s going to be around here anymore,” McElwain said. “Over the last 10 years, most 
penalized team in the league, in the country. 
It’s not going to happen. We’ve got to learn.”
Taylor did tweet out Sunday afternoon 
that he didn’t take offense when McElwain chewed him out on the sidelines and the sit-
uation is going to make him a better person.
McElwain also said he had a feeling things 
were going to go the way they did against 
East Carolina because of how the team pre-
pared during the week. Linebacker Jarrad 
Davis couldn’t agree with him more.
“Monday was very weird for us. It was weird for us. It felt like old times. It felt like 
we kind of reverted back. We got comfort-
able. We were really lazy on Monday as a team,” Davis said. “It showed in the game.”
Now, the Gators find themselves in a sit-
uation similar to the one they were in two games into last season under previous head coach Will Muschamp. 
After beating Eastern Michigan 65-0 in 
the 2014 season season-opener, Florida was 
inconsistent in its second game against the 
Kentucky Wildcats. 
It took three overtime periods for UF to 
top the Wildcats 36-30, and inconsistencies 
plagued Florida throughout the game as they 
had eight penalties for 78 yards.
The Gators looked like a different team in 
their wins over Eastern Michigan and Ken-tucky when they went on the road to play their third game — a matchup against Ala-
bama. 
Florida hung around for most of the 
game, only down seven points heading into 
halftime. However, the Crimson Tide were 
able to pull away and win 42-21.
It’s identical to the 2014 season, as Flori-
da looked like two different teams in its first 
two games heading into its first road game.
But instead of a road game against a 
top-25 team, the Gators will face Kentucky this weekend in Lexington to open up their Southeastern Conference schedule. 
The Wildcats snapped a 20 game road 
conference losing streak on Saturday and won an SEC road game for the first time since 2009 when they went into Sanford Sta-dium and beat Georgia 34-27.
Now, as Florida gets into the heart of con-ference play, the team cannot make the same 
mistakes against SEC opponents. 
The Gators will have to correct their mis-
takes as they head into the game against 
Kentucky.
It’s the start of a new week for the Gators. 
McElwain wants them to put the East Car-olina game behind them and get ready for a Wildcat team that is confident after a big road win.
“Correct the mistakes. Bury it, tear out 
the rearview mirror and get ready to go play a very good Kentucky team on the road that arguably beat us a year ago here,” McElwain 
said. “(They’re) going to have a lot of confi-
dence. New stadium, new facilities, a lot of energy. I’m sure right now they’re going to look at this and say ‘you know what, we can beat these guys.’”   FOOTBALL,  from pg 1UF will open SEC play with road contest against Kentucky
Photos by Emily Cochrane 
TOP LEFT: 
Florida players celebrate with 
the UF band following the game Saturday.
TOP RIGHT:
 UF wide receiver Demarcus Robinson stares down East Carolina defensive back Josh Hawkins after scoring a touch-down.
BOTTOM LEFT: 
UF offensive lineman Antonio Riles waves a Gator flag sur-rounded by teammates and the Florida cheerleaders after the game.
BOTTOM RIGHT: 
UF head coach Jim McElwain reacts after a penalty during Florida’s win on Saturday. The Gators racked up 12 penalties against the Pirates, the first time Florida had that many in a single game since its 37-26 win against Florida State on Nov. 24, 2012.
phrase “no days off” doesn’t seem 
to belong in the Gators’ vernacular. McElwain said the week didn’t start the correct way for Florida, who came out unfocused.
“It started Monday when 30-plus 
guys didn’t have their ankles taped for the first meeting,” McElwain re-vealed. “That’s unacceptable. That was a look into maybe what was go-ing on this week. They were feeling good about themselves. For what? Because they took care of one op-portunity?”
If McElwain has one regret, it’s 
likely not waiting until he was in pri-vate with Taylor before unleashing 
on him. It’s a necessary lesson, but 
it doesn’t need to be a public one. Shaming a player can have unin-tended consequences, such as a loss of confidence. That’s the last thing the Gators need from Taylor.
Florida needs to listen to McEl-
wain and buy-in. The Gators have one of the most talented defenses in the country, and the offense has dis-played more promise than in recent years. The foundation is in place for UF to return to its competitive ways and become a premier college foot-
ball program again.
McElwain thinks the Gators are 
talented enough to win any game 
they play, and has previously im-plied Florida could go undefeated and win a national championship.
But the toughest opponent the 
Gators face is themselves. 
didn’t win.”
Freshman goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese got 
the start in the net for Florida on Sunday, mak-ing the first start of her collegiate career. 
Marckese made four saves in the game, 
preserving the Gators’ second shutout of the season. One of her saves came in the final mo-ments of the match when she successfully de-fended a penalty kick in the 85th minute. 
The ball was struck straight at the freshman 
who collected the shot immediately upon im-pact.
Burleigh was happy with the experience 
Marckese got against Jacksonville and the op-portunity to play some younger players after being ahead by four goals. 
“I think some people have really been doing 
well in practice,” Burleigh said. “We knew we wanted to get some people in the game, but we had to wait til that opportunity presented itself, and it certainly did with the fast start.”
Burleigh emptied her bench in the second 
half replacing all of the Gators starting 11 be-sides Marckese. 
Freshmen Brittney Bennett, Alyssa Howell, 
Morgan Mannweiler along with redshirt fresh-men Jessie Holmes and Courtney Douglas saw their first action as Gators during the second 
half. 
Burleigh said defense will be something 
the team needs to continue to improve on as it  
prepares for two games this week.
“I think we definitely need to get better de-
fensively,” Burleigh said. “We’ve given up too many goals at this point, but that’s something that we’re going to work on going forward.”MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Savannah Jordan (right) dribbles the ball during the Gators' 2-1 loss to T exas A&M on Thursday at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium. Jordan was one of four Florida players to score a goal in Florida's 4-0 win against Jacksonville on Sunday.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF running back Kelvin T aylor carries the ball during Florida's 31-24 win against East Carolina Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
SOCCER,  from pg 13UF replaced the majority of the starting 11 in the second halfbe a major weapon in coach Jim McElwain’s offense, and no one is benefiting more than sopho-more tight end DeAndre Goolsby. 
One of the brightest marks 
of Saturday night’s win was the play of Goolsby, who had 94 yards and a touchdown on three catches. 
Two of his catches were on 
wheel routes, which the Gators have used effectively on mul-tiple occasions in both games, and he appears to be one of red-shirt freshman quarterback Will Grier’s favorite targets thus far this year.
It’s a big change for the 
6-foot-4 sophomore, who played in seven games last season but didn’t record a stat.
Against New Mexico State last 
week, Goolsby recorded three catches for 38 yards.
Secondary steps up 
without Hargreaves: Even 
after allowing 346 passing yards, coach Jim McElwain was surprisingly satisfied with his secondary’s performance.
“They did a great job. They gave up a couple of plays here and there,” McElwain said. 
“Most guys stepped up, 
played good and competed.”
While Florida’s run defense 
was stifling — holding East Car-olina to -13 yards total on the ground — the pass defense was porous. 
The Pirates marched up and 
down the field at will against a Gators defensive backfield that was without star junior corner-
back Vernon Hargreaves III. 
Hargreaves suffered a leg in-
jury in practice on Thursday 
and was held out of the game 
along with  junior safety Keanu 
Neal, who has been out dealing 
with his own leg injury that he 
suffered in Florida's final scrim-
mage of Fall camp on  Aug. 21.
While there were some big 
plays made by sophomore cor-
nerback Jalen Tabor, who re-
turned an interception for a 
touchdown late in the third quar-
ter, Hargreaves’ absence was 
felt.
On a night when McElwain 
was as unhappy as he has ever 
been in his short time at Florida, 
his praise for the unit was unex-
pected.NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13Florida's defense held 
the Pirates to -13 
rushing yardsCOLUMN,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015
