VOLUME 109 ISSUE 86 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF study shows city residents less likely 
to bike to public transit
The study examined three major cities, pg. 3. Robyn answers: Why no attraction after sex? 
It’s in your brain chemistry, pg 6.  
Meal plan: not just for pizza anymore
Cash in your meal plan at Wendy’s and Chick-ﬁ  l-A, pg 5. Claire Boyce and 
the UF gymnastics 
team face Alabama 
on the road tonight 
in a matchup against 
top-10 teams. Read 
the story on Page 13.
73/63
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  12SPORTS 13Alex Harris / Alligator Staff
Blue!
Brant Wickersham, a 19-year-old family, youth and community sciences sophomore, pours colored cornstarch into a plastic bag in preparation for the Gator Run this week-end. This is one of 1,200 bags the organizers have to prepare to hand out after the run.
NATIONAL
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
On the 42nd anniversary of Roe 
v. Wade, pro-life supporters cel-
ebrated a victory rather than a loss.
Republicans fought for restric-
tions on the federal abortion law and succeeded, pushing the bill through the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday. The bill halts federal funding for abortion and follows an abruptly abandoned bill that 
would’ve made most abortions ille-
gal after 20 weeks of pregnancy.
The previous bill was discarded 
Wednesday due to a rift in the party when a group of women argued it did not accommodate rape victims.
“At the last minute, they actually switched one extreme anti-abortion bill to another because their real goal is to ban abortion altogether,” said 
Laura Goodhue, executive director 
of the Florida Alliance of Planned Parenthood Afﬁ  liates. “We really think these attacks are dangerous, extreme and unpopular.”
The bill passed as demonstrators 
paraded through Washington, D.C. for the annual March for Life protest against Roe v. Wade.
Madison Zerkowski, who previ-
ously attended March for Life, said there shouldn’t have been federal funding for abortion in the ﬁ  rst place because it’s an issue that a good por-tion of taxpayers disagree with.
“Most people’s disagreement 
with the whole pro-life movement is that it’s a woman’s choice,” the 19-year-old UF business sophomore said. “In my opinion, the baby from 
day one has his or her own separate 
DNA from the mother. At no point is it the same body. It’s not her right to choose because it’s not her body.”
But Jordan Donohue, a UF Eng-
Anniversary of Roe v. Wade brings controversy over new billERIC HEUBUSCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gators excel on the court, on 
the ﬁ  eld and also on the ice.
The club men’s ice hockey team 
won the Thrasher Cup in Savannah 
last weekend, beating the University of Georgia Bulldogs on Friday and the Florida State University Semi-
noles on Saturday.
Team members managed their suc-
cess with only two hours of practice 
each week.
With no ice rink in Gainesville, the Gators travel to Jacksonville every Wednesday for ice time. 
Frederic Bourret, a 20-year-old UF 
mechanical engineering junior and the team’s goaltender, said the team’s Club hockey wins Thrasher 
Cup despite lack of ice rinkSEE MARRIAGE, PAGE 4
SEE HOCKEY, PAGE 4
SEE ROE, PAGE 4WORKPLACE DISCRIMINATION IS 
STILL AN ISSUE.
CONOR SOPER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Although same-sex marriage has been rec-
ognized under Florida law, the local LGBT 
community is still facing issues.
“I think the opinion and the decision will 
stand the test of time,” said Joseph Antonel-
li, founder and president of the Gainesville 
Community Alliance. “I do believe that Flori-da has moved into the majority of opinion. It’s taken a long time to go through this, but it’s the right thing.”
Antonelli, 72, has been an activist for LGBT 
rights for 52 years and said he is concerned with employers in Florida still being able to ﬁ  re employees for their sexual orientation.
“This is 2000 and what? Fifteen?” An-
tonelli said. “We’re still talking about ﬁ  ring 
people for who they are? That sounds, to me, 
absurd.”
Gabriella Larios, a 19-year-old UF wom-
en’s studies sophomore and external vice president for the Pride Student Union at UF, thinks marriage equality in Florida is an encouraging change but is worried about politicians discouraging future LGBT policy changes.
“If they’re willing to ﬁ  ght something that 
has already been proven unconstitutional, then to get other things like employment non-discrimination across Florida will be even harder,” she said, adding that racism, classism and bi-erasure still need to be addressed.
To address these and other LGBT issues, LGBT community still 
fighting for equality
“Our players have great 
individual talent, but it took a 
lot of time to bond together as 
a team and work well.”
Frederic Bourret
20-year-old UF mechanical engineering 
junior and the team’s goaltenderNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 86 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
SUNNY
57/36SUNNY
66/41SUNNY
64/46RAIN
61/36THUNDER-
STORMS
73/63
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. in the Hippodrome Cinema 
on Saturday at 8 p.m. Prior to the film, a cocktail reception catered by Vellos Brickstreet Grill will take place at 7 p.m. 
in the Art Gallery. Attendees 
are encouraged to dress in their best disguises as they are transported to the streets of Chicago in the 1920s. Seating is limited, and tickets are $20. Advanced reservations are recommended. To reserve a seat, please contact the Box 
Office at 352-375-4477. For 
information on Cocktails & Classics or for cinema-relat-ed questions, please contact Alisha Kinman at alisha@the-hipp.org or call 352-373-5968.
Photography gallery talk at the 
Harn Museum
Visit the Harn Museum of 
Art on Sunday at 3 p.m. for a public gallery talk by Curator of Photography Carol McCusker. Titled “Copia: New Photographs in the Harn Collection,” this talk will address building a mu-seum’s collection, along with 
a conversation on how pho-
tographs generate memories and histories. The Harn offers free admission every day and free parking on weekends. To preview works on view, visit harn.ufl.edu/exhibitions/copia. For more information, please contact Elizabeth King 
at eking@harn.ufl.edu.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Healthy Resolutions: get covered 
at the Wooly
A community enrollment event will be held to assist those who are uninsured to sign up for 
health insurance. Insurance 
brokers and agents will be present to help attendees en-roll. They will also be having a health fair featuring blood pressure screenings, diabetes screenings, nutrition advice and an “Ask the Pharmacist” session. It will be at the Wooly 
downtown at 20 N. Main St. on 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Make sure to have social secu-rity numbers and a recent W-2 or pay stub with you. You can RSVP at getcoveredamerica.org/connector. For more infor-mation, contact the event coor-dinator David O’Malley at 352-
301-0135.
“A T. rex Named Sue” exhibit cel-
ebration
Join the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday for a celebration of its new fea-tured exhibit, “A T. rex Named Sue,” with free activities and 
displays, including appearanc-
es by Ronald McDonald and UF mascots Albert and Alberta! Sue is the most famous T. rex of all. Come to the Florida Museum to experience the largest, most complete and best-preserved T. rex ever discovered! UF stu-dents with a valid Gator 1 Card 
receive free admission to “A T. 
rex Named Sue.” For more in-formation, call 352-273-2061.
Hippodrome Cinema to host 
Cocktails & Classics: “Some Like It Hot”The Hippodrome Cinema pres-ents the first film of the Cocktails 
& Classics series, “Some Like It 
Hot.” The 1959 film is playing Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
JENNIFER TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Anthony Confrancesco said he zips 
nearly ﬁ  ve miles through campus every 
day on his six-gear bicycle.
A UF study assessing bicycle services 
around transit stations, such as lanes and 
racks, shows that most people aren’t as 
willing to ride as far on bicycles as Confran-cesco is to make their daily commutes.
The study, published online in August 
and to be printed this April, found that cy-clists are willing to travel an average of one to two miles to use public transportation in Atlanta and Minneapolis and three miles in Los Angeles, said Hartwig Hochmair, the 
study’s researcher and a UF geomatics as-
sociate professor.
Hochmair collected on-board surveys 
conducted by the three cities, which asked people on buses how far they rode their bi-cycles to their stops.
“Public planning agencies now know 
that they should make the two-mile radius around transit hubs more bike-friendly to 
encourage cyclists to ride to public trans-
portation,” Hochmair said.
Gainesville was recently voted the 37th 
most bicycle-friendly city by bicycling.com. However, Moving Alachua County Forward — the transportation initiative to raise a 1-cent sales surtax to help improve road and bike lane conditions — was re-jected by voters in the November elections.
Alachua County still has plans to im-
prove bicycle and pedestrian lanes as part of the County Mobility Plan, said Jeff Hays, Alachua County Transportation Planning manager.
“These will be funded through our 
Multi-Modal Transportation Mitigation Program (independent of the Moving Ala-chua County Forward initiative) and many of them do provide connectivity to current and future planned transit stops,” Hays 
said.
Stephen Schwartz, a 20-year-old UF ap-
plied physiology and kinesiology junior, 
said he believes RTS needs to look into the number of bicycles buses can hold so more bicyclists can use the system. Currently, 
each rack can only hold two to four bicycles.
“If people are biking to bus stops, they’ll 
be using the racks on the front of the bus 
and it’ll be an indication of how many peo-ple bike to public transport,” said Schwartz, who is also a Student Government free bike 
repair employee.
As president of Team Florida Cycling, 
Confrancesco, a 20-year-old UF accounting 
junior, said he chose a bicycle as his main form of transportation because of UF’s 
many bicycle lanes and low speed limits.
“Ninety percent of the time it’s easier 
and faster to ride a bike around campus 
and the UF area because you don’t have to worry about parking,” he said.
Confrancesco often supplements his 
commuting ride with an additional 25 miles worth of cycling with Team Florida Cycling.
He believes that by improving condi-
tions for bicyclists on the road and on the bus, it would increase the number of people using both forms of transportation.FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Up to 4 percent of those who take a bus or train to work rode bicycles to get to the 
transit hub in three major U.S. cities, new UF/IFAS research shows. Those bicyclists pedaled an average of 2 miles to the stations, according to data analyzed by UF/IFAS.
Andres Leiva/ Alligator Staff
Geology of a French Fry
Kara Wilson, a 22-year-old UF geology senior, uses a special type of compass to mea-sure the slope of one of the French Fries next to Marston Science Library on Thursday.
UF study shows city residents less likely to bike to public transit
 IT WAS A CAFETERIA FIGHT.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local 
man Wednesday morning for report-
edly hitting another man on the head 
with a metal folding chair at the St. 
Francis House cafeteria.
Just before 10:50 a.m., Kelly Young-
blood, Jr., 70, walked into the cafeteria 
of the homeless shelter on South Main 
Street clutching a 3-foot-long stick, ac-cording to a police report. 
As Shane Michael Harrell, 33, was 
eating his lunch, Youngblood came up 
from behind and began to argue with 
him. 
During the ﬁ  ght, Youngblood put 
the stick down on a nearby table and 
proceeded to pick up a metal folding 
chair. He then hit Harrell in the head with 
the chair three times, according to the report. Harrell tried to get away from 
the ﬁ  ght, but Youngblood began chas-
ing him with the stick.
Youngblood told police that Harrell 
borrowed a phone charger and didn’t 
return it, thus treating him like “an old 
fool,” according to the report.
Paramedics at the scene saw a lump 
on Harrell’s head where Youngblood had hit him, but there was no mention 
of him being taking to the hospital in 
the report.
Youngblood was taken to Alachua 
County Jail on a charge of aggravated 
battery. 
As of press time, he is being held in 
lieu of a $50,000 bond.
In July, Youngblood was charged 
with battery on a ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter but was unable to stand trial due to illness, ac-
cording to court records.Police: Local man arrested 
for hitting another man with a metal chair at St. FrancisPride Awareness Month is coming up 
in March and there will be events al-most every day.
Terry Fleming, co-president of the 
Pride Community Center of North 
Central Florida, said he believes mar-
riage equality is a major step forward for the LGBT community.
“We’re excited and extremely 
pleased that we’re being accorded the same rights as straight folks,” Fleming said. “It’s been a long time coming and we’re glad that we’re getting there.”
The center has been actively engag-
ing locals since 2007, he said.
“The important thing for us to 
remember right now is that if the ap-pearance that we have received our rights is out there, then it is not accu-rate,” Fleming said. 
Other issues that continue to be 
worked on include anti-discrimina-
tion protections, trans awareness, anti-
bullying and HIV issues, he said.
“All of those things have been tak-
ing place at the same time as the mar-riage equality fight,” Fleming said. “Unfortunately, the image out there is that that’s what’s the big issue and the only thing we’ve been working on, and that’s not true.”
Although there is marriage equal-
ity, these groups assert the fight for LGBT rights and equality is not over.
“I think what we’re simply say-
ing, and it’s a very simple ethic: Treat people equally,” Antonelli said. “Give them the same right, under law, as a citizen, at all times. That’s it. That’s where it is.”lish sophomore, said she believes America is regressing to the 1950s.
“It’s completely ridiculous 
that in 2015 something like that 
would even be on the table,” the 
19-year-old said.
In a statement from the White 
House, senior advisers stated they recommend that Obama veto the bill if it were to reach him. The statement read, “The Administration strongly opposes legislation that unnecessarily 
restricts women’s reproductive 
freedoms and consumers’ private insurance options.”
A veto, however, can be over-
ridden with a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate.
“Abortion should be OK but 
not as easy as walking into a clinic and being able to do it,” said 20-year-old UF biochemistry junior Ferzan Uddin.
Katie Wallace, 19, finds the 
timing of the bill disrespectful.
“It shouldn’t be men deciding 
women’s healthcare,” the UF an-
thropology sophomore said.
There are currently 84 women 
in the House out of 435 members, 
according to the House website.
Florida also tightened its grip 
on abortion restrictions this sum-mer, when Gov. Rick Scott signed a bill making abortion illegal if a doctor says the fetus can survive 
outside the womb. Two existing 
exceptions are if the abortion is medically necessary to save the woman’s life or to avert a serious bodily impairment.
“If you’re young, and don’t 
agree with it,” said Donohue, “you should go out and vote.”ETHAN BAUER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Middle East was the 
topic of the night as Juan Cole spoke to a crowd of students 
and faculty about the region’s  politics and youth movements.
Cole, a scholar, historian 
and well-known blogger of In-formed Comment, addressed an audience of about 50 people on Thursday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Featured on the Colbert Re-
port, he was hosted by various groups, including the Arab Stu-dents’ Association and the Inter-national Center. 
It was in hopes of giving in-
terested students an opportu-nity to hear his insights on the complicated world of Middle 
Eastern politics and the role 
young people play.
He also said that young peo-
ple are typically “more literate, increasingly urban, and less ‘re-
ligiously observant’ than their 
parents.”
Sara Rifai, a 22-year-old 
UF biochemistry senior, said 
Cole’s thoughts on youth influ-
ence “and how those people were able to make a difference through Facebook” stuck out to her the most out of the rest of his 
talk.
Cole used Egypt as an ex-
ample for the effectiveness of 
today’s Arab youth in bringing 
about change. 
After Hosni Mubarak, 
Egypt’s leader, fled, younger 
residents were — unlike in the past — “almost unanimously” 
in favor of a democratic regime.
Cole said he hopes students 
and colleagues take notice that 
“this generation of young Arabs 
is significantly different from 
their parents.”4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
The UF club men’s ice hockey team poses for a picture after winning the Savannah 
Tire Hockey Classic tournament.
Asia Emory / Alligator
Dr. Juan Cole, a professor of history from the University of Michi-
gan, speaks to an audience on youth involvement in Middle East -
ern politics Thursday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
SPEAKERJuan Cole talks Middle East politics, 
youth Thursday in Reitz ballroom
They get funding partially 
from RecSports and donations
slow start could be due to its lack of a fa-
cility.
“It takes so much time to go to Jack-
sonville that even when we do have prac-tice on Wednesday it is rare we have a full team at practice,” Bourret wrote in an email. 
“Our players have great individual tal-
ent, but it took a lot of time to bond to-gether as a team and work well,” he said.
The 22-person team, led by head coach 
Mike Marcinkiewicz, captain Ryan Geffin 
and president Jackson Widell, can afford 
to travel with a yearly budget from RecS-ports and donations from fans.
Marcinkiewicz said he believes a local 
rink would help attract recruits and fans. 
He said that if UF is considering build-
ing a new football facility, there must be a way to make plans for a rink.
“I have players emailing me from 
Michigan and Minnesota asking to see a facility,” Marcinkiewicz said.
Most home games are played at the 
RDV Sportsplex Ice Den in Orlando, where there are only a few hundred fans. 
Tournaments such as the Thrasher 
Cup give the team the opportunity to play in front of a larger audience of thousands, 
Bourret said.
As the team continues to play, Bourret 
said he is looking foward to the future of 
Gator hockey.
He hopes it will involve a new facility 
near the university.
“I would hope to see it grow and be-
come better, maybe eventually become an actual sport and not just a club,” he 
said, “and hopefully get a rink close to 
Gainesville to play at.”HOCKEY , from page 1ROE , from page 1It’s going to the Senate
Still lagging with equality
MARRIAGE , from page 1
“I have players emailing me from 
Michigan and Minnesota asking to 
see a facility.”
Mike Marcinkiewicz
Head coachMIKAYLA MOTT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Grant Gergen is looking 
forward to taking a break from 
dining hall food, and now he can with a Spring promotion. 
As part of the promotion, 
students who hold an open ac-cess meal plan can eat for free at new locations around cam-pus.
Beginning at 4 p.m., stu-
dents can eat at the Reitz Union Wendy’s from Jan. 19 to 23 and Panda Express from Jan. 26 to 30. From Feb. 2 to 6, they can 
grab Chick-fil-A at the Hub or 
Broward Dining Center. Each location will have select op-tions to choose from.
More than 3,200 students, 
faculty and staff have a Spring meal plan, wrote Jill Rodri-guez, Aramark marketing program manager, in an email. 
She said this is the second year 
the company offered the pro-motion.
“It is an added bonus for 
current meal plan holders and it may contribute to some ad-ditional participants,” Rodri-guez wrote.
Savannah Padcett, a UF an-
thropology freshman, said she was content with the original meal plan dining locations. 
“I really like Pollo Tropical, 
and it’s already on there,” Pad-cett, 19, said. 
Gergen, a 19-year-old UF 
exploratory freshman, said he had plans to go to Wendy’s on Wednesday night, and he thinks Panda Express and Chick-fil-A should be added to 
the meal plan permanently. 
“I was going to hit all 
those,” he said.FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffTuba Time
Ismael Sandoval, a 21-year-old UF music education senior, practices 
“Concertino for Tuba and String Orchestra” outside the School of Music on Thursday. Sandoval was rehearsing for an upcoming audition.
STATE
ANGELA CHAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Back in elementary school, some remember being 
disciplined with referrals. Others were met with a pad-
dle.
Corporal punishment — most commonly through 
the use of a paddle — is still legal in Florida public 
schools, which led a team of UF researchers to conduct a 
study condemning it.
“By paddling, you are enforcing the idea (in the 
child’s mind) that adults cannot be trusted,” said Joseph Gagnon, the study’s lead researcher and associate pro-fessor of special education in the UF College of Educa-tion.
Gagnon said the Southern Poverty Law Center, a 
Montgomery, Alabama, civil rights and social justice ac-
tivist organization, was interested in the issue and con-
tacted him to write a report for policy makers, legislators and principals.
Florida is one of 19 states that still allows corporal 
punishment in public schools, but it is only seen in 28 counties.
“People think, ‘This is how I was raised, so this is 
OK,’” he said. “The problem with that is that cultural history isn’t research and not a justification to doing 
something wrong.”
Thirty-six school administrators were interviewed on their opinions regarding corporal punishment.
“Some principals said, ‘Spare the rod, spoil the 
child,’” Gagnon said.           
Pooja Chandrasekhar, a UF psychology sophomore, 
said she doesn’t think corporal punishment is necessary.
“If it really is a problem, then they should call the 
office and send them to the office,” Chandrasekhar, 19, said.
Gagnon said the first step to ending corporal punish-
ment is to ban it first at the district and state levels, then 
the national level.
“The second step needs to be the education of teach-
ers, principals, and the community to put the word out there,” he said, “because people still think that it works and is necessary.”
The research had three parts, Gagnon said. The team 
looked at who was getting punished, while Brianna Kennedy-Lewis, assistant professor in the UF College of Education, interviewed principals and asked why they were using this punishment method. Then Gagnon sur-veyed schools and asked which punishment methods they were using that were effective.UF study: condemn school paddling
 SPOTS WERE FILLED 
WITHIN TWO WEEKS.
KATHERINE GUTIERREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Registration is already closed for 
the UF Career Resource Center’s in-
augural Gator Shadow Day on Feb. 
20.
Registration opened before Win-
ter Break and spots were filled with-
in two weeks, said Nadene Reyn-
olds, the senior assistant director for 
professional development and expe-rience at the center.
More than 80 students from all majors applied to participate in 
the one-day event, where they will 
shadow an employer in their field of interest.
The CRC’s goal is to connect stu-
dents with employment opportuni-
ties, Reynolds said.
“We had a very strong and posi-
tive student response,” she said. 
“We didn’t even start our social me-
dia campaign board.”
Students completed an online 
application through Gator Career-
Link, which asked about their in-terests and strengths. Students are 
not guaranteed employment or an 
internship, Reynolds said.Alexis Brown, a UF anthropolo-
gy freshman, said she enjoys having access to her own career counselor and using the center’s library and resume preparation.
“I’d like to do Gator Shadow 
Day,” Brown, 18, said. “It seems like a really good program.”
Reynolds said the idea was in-
spired by a challenge from a former 
supervisor to develop a way to edu-
cate students on employment op-portunities and help them prepare.
“I would hope that in the future 
that we would have Gator Shadow 
Days rather than a Gator Shadow 
Day,” Reynolds said.Gator Shadow Day registration filledRALPHY LOPEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Helping Hands Pet Rescue got 
close to 1,000 animals adopted in 2014 and are looking to social me-
dia to make 2015 another successful 
year.
Patricia Diskant, president of 
Helping Hands Pet Rescue, credits 
the organization’s success to Mad-
die’s Pet Adoption Days — an an-nual nationwide pet adoption event funded by a no-kill animal rights group. 
Because of the adoption days, 
Diskant said the organization was able to get 198 pets adopted in two days. She said she hopes to increase 
the organization’s social media pres-
ence this year to keep up the high adoption numbers.
“We have a great group of de-
vout followers, adopters, fosters and 
volunteers that help us get the word 
out for pets that are looking for for-ever homes,” Diskant wrote in an email.
Alex Serrano, a UF animal sci-
ences junior, said she thinks Help-
ing Hands’ success comes from its 
network of supporters. A dog lover herself, Serrano said the love she has for animals and the individual per-sonality traits that each animal car-
ries is what led her to adopt her dog. 
The 20-year-old, who adopted 
her 8-year-old pit bull, said she at-
tributes Helping Hands’ success to knowing the rescues’ personalities 
and behavior.
Diskant said the organization 
strives to keep its followers up-to-date on what’s going on in the res-
cue through Facebook this year. She said she hopes to create a family-like atmosphere for everyone involved 
in the organization.
“The saying ‘It takes a village to 
raise a baby’ very much applies to 
the work of a pet rescue, and we have been blessed with a very sup-
portive and involved family,” Dis-
kant said.
With hopes of increasing their 
adoptions this year, Diskant said 
they will increase their presence on 
Facebook and increase the num-ber of foster homes. This will allow them to have more pets in the pro-gram at one time, she said.
“So many people are on Face-
book these days, so it is the easiest and fastest way to get the word out for our adoptable pets,” Diskant 
said. “We look forward to helping 
out the homeless pets of Alachua County in big ways this coming year.”Helping Hands Pet Rescue looking 
to expand social media presence
“We have a great group of 
devout followers, adopters, 
fosters and volunteers that 
help us get the word out 
for pets that are looking for 
forever homes.”
Patricia Diskant
Helping Hands Pet Rescue president
“By paddling, you are enforcing the idea 
that adults cannot be trusted.”
 Joseph Gagnon
UF College of Education researcher and associate pro -
fessor of special education Meal plan: not just 
for pizza anymore
You can also use your meal plan at:
Pollo tropical
Moe’s
Plan out your Friday meals:
Wendy’s: 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.  Broward Dining Chick-Fil-A:  9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.Panda Express:   10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.HUB Chick-Fil-A:   8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.Moe’s: 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.Pollo Tropical:   10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m.Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
This week’s headlines were splattered with all kinds of 
hectic news: takes on the State of the Union address, re-newed culture-war skirmishes surrounding “American 
Sniper,” and — let’s not forget — balls. Here’s this week’s edi-tion of... 
Darts & Laurels
A story broke this week of an accident in the Egyptian Mu-
seum in Cairo. Evidently, the gold funerary mask of King Tut-ankhamen — one of the most priceless objects in history — has been damaged. Speciﬁ  cally, that long, groovy beard pharaohs used to sport back in the day broke off last year. Nobody seems to be sure how it happened; there are differing accounts from museum staff. But, like, whatever. Accidents happen. What’s really unforgivable is how staff dealt with the unintentional 
beard removal. Anxious to get the mask back on display as 
soon as possible — it’s a cultural treasure and tourist icon on par with the Mona Lisa — museum brass demanded the beard be briskly glued back on with epoxy. Whoever did the job got 
some schmutz on Tut’s face, though, so somebody scraped off 
the extra glue — leaving scratches and gashes on the mask. So 
here’s a don’t-practice-arts-and-crafts-on-precious-artifacts DART to the upper management of the Egyptian Museum.
The newly-Republican majority House got off to an ag-
gressive start Thursday by passing a law that would ban 
federal subsidies for abortion procedures. The bill itself prob-
ably won’t have any effect; it faces staunch opposition in the Senate, and President Barack Obama has already said he’ll veto it as soon as it gets to his desk. Pushing a bill like this 
through wasn’t a move to make policy, but a symbolic ges-
ture: Thursday was the 42nd anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the 
Supreme Court decision that recognized the right for doctors to perform abortions nationwide. Coming in the days immedi-ately following the president’s plea for cooperation, this vote demonstrates the new government is not willing to play nice. So here’s a don’t-use-women’s-rights-as-a-pawn-in-your-
passive-aggressive-beef-with-the-president DART to House Republicans.
In many ways, the biggest story that hit the airwaves and 
ﬁ  ber-optic cables this week had to do with less-than-satisfac-tory balls. It seems that during the American Football Con-ference Championship Game against the Indianapolis Colts, somebody on the New England Patriots’ side let some air out of the team’s balls. In theory, this would make it easier for players to throw and catch said balls; i.e., the Patriots cheated. An investigation done by the NFL found that of the 12 balls used by the Patriots in that game, 11 were “under-inﬂ  ated.”
Controversies like this one tend to rock the nation, ap-
parently. It seems to be a pretty big deal, but, as Tom Brady said in a press conference where he vehemently denied any 
involvement in the scandal, “this isn’t ISIS.” Because it’s a 
mildly controversial scandal occurring within U.S. borders, 
people with apparently boundless cleverness have already af-ﬁ  xed the sufﬁ  x “-gate” to the word “ball,” making a word that we refuse to print due to its unbelievable stupidity. A hefty 
it’s-a-game-why-why-why-WHY DART to the Patriots and 
people who perpetuate the scandal.
That’s all, folks. Have a lovely weekend. Answering: Why no attraction after sex?
I asked, and you answered. Thanks to all who submit-
ted questions and ideas to me. This week, someone wrote to me with an issue between her and her boy-
friend: They have sex and after he orgasms, he feels no attraction to her. Her question: “I’m wondering if you’ve ever come across this before where a guy, after climax-ing, loses attraction, sexual desire, and even emotional desire?”
I liked the email because I thought the question was 
interesting, but mostly because I liked the writer’s de-scription of her relationship. I’m going to take a time out from advice to give mad props to this couple: When they hook up, he makes sure to get her off ﬁ  rst.
It might not seem like a big deal, but she seemed less 
upset about his post-sex intimacy because he focused on her ﬁ  rst. Sex should be about both parties, and since only 29 percent of females orgasm every time compared to 75 percent of men — insert crying emoji here — setting aside time to focus on his girlfriend is a really cool thing for this guy to do. You go, Glen Coco.
Now, back to the question at hand. I think it’s a fairly 
common thing to lose arousal after orgasm. The boy-friend’s post-sex behavior sounds similar to when you watch porn and are immediately disgusted with your-self after you climax, like, “What ﬁ  lth was I just watch-ing? I need to go take three showers and apologize to my mom.” Side note: Other people experience this too, right?
I ﬁ  gured there had to be a scientiﬁ  c explanation for 
the decrease in attraction, but my extent of scientiﬁ  c knowledge is that the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell. Google brought up a lot of blogs and comment forums that conﬁ  rmed that this is a relatively common issue and even some non-men have experienced it too.
That being said, the most scientiﬁ  c explanation for the 
phenomenon is that your brain is being a total cockblock. This might come as a surprise to people, but your low-er half isn’t doing all the work during sex. Your brain does a big job, releasing chemicals and such. When you orgasm, dopa-mine — a chemical known for its part in pleasure and addic-tion — reaches its peak. Right after orgasm, your dopamine levels drop signiﬁ  cantly.
Side effects of low dopamine 
levels sound a lot like what this dude feels post-coitus: antisocial behavior and “inability to love.” Orgasms also release oxytocin, which encourages bonding and trust. Women release more oxytocin than men after sex, which is what sparks the stereotypical belief of women wanting to cuddle and men wanting their own space post-sex.
As for suggestions to make the issue go away, I hate 
to say that it seems unlikely beyond rewiring your brain. One website suggested that stress might be blocking the release of oxytocin, which might make those levels lower after orgasm. But if you’re totally relaxed — so no big tests coming up to distract you and no problems in your personal life — it seems like normal brain function is the thing to blame.
To be fair, I’m no scientist, so take this with a grain of 
salt. But the issue seems common enough that I wouldn’t worry about it. As long as your relationship is good oth-erwise, both sexually and emotionally, I wouldn’t put too much stock in why he’s not attracted to you for the few minutes after he orgasms. If you’re still worried that he’s not sexually attracted to you, there’s only one way to ﬁ  nd out: round two.
Still have any questions about your burning desires? 
Send them in to opinions@alligator.org. I’ll write about them next week.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.
49 TOTAL VOTES61% YES
39% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThursday’s question: Are you concerned about rising global temperatures?Today’s question: Are you participating in the Gator 
Run?FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Following President 
Obama’s sixth State of the Union address this week, 
the Republicans once again provided an ofﬁ  cial response 
to Obama’s speech. And once 
again, it was stilted, ﬁ  lled with talking points and sounded more like a sketch from Sesame Street than an address meant for millions of American adults. This year’s victim was recently elected U.S. senator from Iowa, Joni Ernst.
On the surface, Sen. Ernst 
is everything the Republicans want to expand their footprint. She’s from a working-class fam-ily, served in Iraq and is a ﬁ  re-
brand who once compared her 
time castrating hogs at her fam-
ily farm to what she would do in Washington. Instead, she fell victim to a cruel joke by the Re-publican Party: She gave the of-ﬁ  cial party response to Obama’s address.
When any president gives an 
address that tops an hour, it’s 
probably difﬁ  cult for anyone 
in the opposite party to give an adequate response in just a few precious minutes, but that’s how the system functions, and unfortunately for Sen. Ernst, she 
struggled almost as mightily as 
her predecessors.
She sounded rehearsed, com-
plaining about Obama’s use of talking points while almost ex-clusively sticking to Republican talking points. Though she pro-vided stories of her youth that packed an emotional punch, 
Ernst had the delivery of a robot. 
From Sen. Marco Rubio’s issues with a bottle of water two years ago to the Sesame Street-like address from Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal three years ago, 
it seems Republicans are either 
not very good at responding to Obama’s speeches, or they’re doomed to fail.
Perhaps for the sake of future 
Republicans — or Democrats, if a Republican wins in 2016 — the ofﬁ  cial response should be abol-ished. What was once a uniﬁ  ed 
response from the president’s 
opposition is now fractured as several alternate responses are provided from various politi-cians representing various po-litical organizations.
Republican senator from 
Kentucky —  and likely presi-dential candidate — Rand Paul 
provided the ofﬁ  cial Tea Party 
response, appealing to the Re-publican Party’s far right. This was not Sen. Paul’s ﬁ  rst Tea Party response, providing its ofﬁ  cial remarks each of the last three years, but if Republicans are looking to remain strong, uniﬁ  ed and ready to take the 
White House in two years, why 
fracture the party?
Sen. Ernst’s stilted response 
won’t likely win her any ad-ditional national support, nor will she be considering a White 
House run, but splitting the Re-
publicans between the establish-ment and the Tea Party once again sets the GOP up for an interesting primary.
The robotic spouting of talk-
ing points and platitudes will likely keep the base in line, but Tea Party and moderate voters may not ﬁ  nd much comfort in Sen. Ernst’s words — nor the es-tablishment Republican line — as we move into the 2016 presi-dential election cycle. 
Whether they like it or not, 
the Republican Party’s path to the 270 electoral votes required to win the White House is rather narrow. If the platform of the Republican Party in 2016 is re-pealing Obama’s two terms, they may ﬁ  nd it difﬁ  cult getting to the magic number required to 
win. Yet, if the established Re-
publicans do not bash Obama in the primary, they are not likely to emerge as the party’s nomi-nee.
It’s a conundrum of epic 
proportions and one that ap-
pears more difﬁ  cult by the day. 
Obama’s approval ratings con-tinue to tick upwards, and if the trend continues through much of 2015 and 2016, a platform of repealing the Obama presidency 
may not play well with voters in 
swing states. 
Yes, Republicans may control 
Congress and could very well make Obama’s ﬁ  nal two years in the White House a nightmare. But the Republicans’ lack of a clear path to the White House, along with party inﬁ  ghting, will 
make moving into 1600 Penn-
sylvania Ave. in January 2017 a challenging goal.
As crazy it sounds, it would 
behoove Republicans to ﬁ  nd compromise with President Obama on some of the propos-als he outlined this week. The GOP needs something tangible 
for its 2016 platform, and rail-
roading Obama is not going to work. 
So here’s some advice for the 
lucky Republican tasked with giving the ofﬁ  cial response next year: Focus on something posi-tive and concrete that the Re-publicans can accomplish. Oth-
erwise you’re looking at another 
four years of stilted and silly responses to Democratic State of the Union addresses.
Joel Mendelson is a second-year 
UF political campaigning graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.Once again GOP gives 
poor, splintered response to State of the UnionColumn
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org
8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sign here
Jackie Smith, a 19-year-old UF public relations sophomore, signs her name on a Dance Marathon ban -
ner Thursday on Turlington Plaza. Dance Marathon raises money for UF Health Shands child patients.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Out with the old
Jim Karno, 62, tosses pieces of broken tile into a pile on Buckman Drive on Thursday afternoon. Karno 
was working on the demolition of a room in Leigh Hall.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Col-
lege students could be get-
ting a break on textbook 
costs under a new proposal 
announced Thursday by Gov. Rick Scott.
Scott, during a visit to the 
University of North Florida in Jacksonville, said he wants to exempt all textbooks used by students from state and local sales taxes. The state’s 
sales tax is 6 cents on the dol-
lar.
“We must continue to 
make the dream of earning a 
college education attainable 
for every student,” Scott said in a statement. “Eliminating the sales tax on college text-books will directly help ev-
ery Florida student with the 
cost of college.”
The Scott administration 
estimates the tax break could 
save a full-time student as 
much as $60 a year, which assumes they are spending up to $1,000 on textbooks.
The tax break is expected 
to cost more than $41 mil-lion if the Florida Legislature goes along with the idea.
Scott has pushed to keep 
down the cost of college, and last year, he convinced leg-islators to limit tuition hikes 
at the state’s public universi-
ties.
Sen. Tom Lee, R-Brandon, 
and the Senate budget chair-
man, said he generally sup-
ports the tax-cutting propos-als being suggested by the governor. 
But Lee also said he was 
unsure if lawmakers will have enough money to cover the full cost of Scott’s pro-posals while also boosting 
spending on schools and the 
environment.
Scott on Thursday also 
said that he wants legisla-
tors to set $23.5 million to 
expand Florida’s Bright Fu-tures scholarship program so 
it will cover summer classes.Rick Scott aims to 
eliminate textbook sales tax in Florida ANYONE CAN TAKE IT.
SOPHIA KARNEGIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Levin College of 
Law introduced an online 
course available across the globe last May, and now a new crop of students will get the 
same opportunity.
On Jan. 26, the college will 
relaunch The Global Student’s 
Introduction to U.S. Law, its massive open online course. The eight-week course is avail-able for free to anyone in the world with Internet access.
More than 19,000 people 
registered last summer, said Pe-dro Malavet, a UF law profes-sor. He said he was surprised at their engagement.“The students would ask 
for more,” Malavet said. “They wanted more lectures.”
Coursera, the online plat-
form, reached students in 173 countries, he said.
“This is a way of getting 
the University of Florida out there,” Malavet said.
The course will cover the 
U.S. legal system and give an introduction to criminal law.
Registration will remain 
open throughout the term.
Alyson Flournoy, the associ-
ate dean of academic affairs at the law school, said the class functions as a public service.
“It was a very exciting op-
portunity for our faculty to interact with an international 
student body that was diverse 
in every way imaginable,” Flournoy said. Law college reopens 
free online course
AARON ALBRIGHT
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recent survey showed that 80 percent of respon-
dents support mandatory labeling of foods containing 
DNA, but experts say this strong response stems large-ly from misinformation.
Charles Moss, a food and resource economics pro-
fessor at UF, said the dramatic response is more repre-sentative of people’s desire to label everything instead of a fear of DNA as it relates to food.
“People always think more information is a good 
thing,” he said.
The question to ask, Moss said, is whether a label 
has value. And because nearly every food product con-tains DNA, labeling it is worthless.
“From an economic standpoint, labeling has value 
only if it has potential to change your decision,” he said.
Moss also said the reason for such high support 
could be the result of an incorrect association of DNA with genetically modified organisms.
Brandon McFadden, a UF assistant professor in 
food and resource economics, has conducted surveys regarding GMOs in food. He said some people likely don’t know exactly what DNA means, thus confusing it with GMOs.
“I think that shows that a lot of people are pretty 
ignorant about science, but it’s not necessarily their fault,” said Chloe De Cresy, a 20-year-old UF micro-
biology and Spanish junior, in reference to the survey 
results.
A voluntary label for non-GMO foods is sometimes 
used, McFadden said. The irony, he said, is that a non-GMO label is almost unnecessary because anything or-ganic and fresh automatically has zero GMOs.
“There’s a belief that throwing a label on something 
will solve the problem,” he said.
Although the idea of labeling food might be popu-
lar, he said, most people don’t know what the label will do for them.Study: No one knows DNA or GMOsSTATE
“We must continue 
to make the dream 
of earning a college 
education attainable 
for every student. 
Eliminating the sales 
tax on college textbooks 
will directly help every 
Florida student with the 
cost of college.”
Rick Scott
governorFRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Stuﬀ   To Do This Weekend
Friday Saturday Sunday
Chanticleer
What: Watch Chanticleer, the 
Grammy-winning all-male 
vocal ensemble, is perform-ing at UF. Their music spans from renaissance polyphony to contemporary, jazz, spiri-tuals and world music.
When: 7:30 p.m.
Where: University AuditoriumPrice:  $10 to $40
Spring Observership: Mr. 
Burns, a post-electric play
What: Participants will get a 
behind-the-scenes peek at 
what goes into the making of a play. This includes de-signer presentations, the ﬁ  rst rehearsal with cast read-through of the script, obser-vation of additional rehears-als, a tour of the Hippodrome State Theater, a preview per-formance and a post-show session with the cast and creative team.
When: 3 p.m.
Where: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre 
Price : $100 for the whole series
Metamorphosis
What: UF performers put on the 
musical “Metamorphosis.”
When: Friday, 7:30 p.m.
Where: Constans TheaterPrice:  $10 to $40Hoggetowne Medieval Faire
What: Eat at the vendor stands, 
ride an elephant, throw an axe 
or watch a jousting match.
When: Saturday and Sunday, 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Where: Alachua County Fair-
grounds
Price: $15 adults/$7 ages 5-17
A T. rex Named Sue Exhibit Cel-
ebration
What: Come meet Sue, the Flor-
ida Museum’s newest fea-
ture exhibition. Learn about dinosaurs and participate in hands-on, dinosaur-themed activities.When: 10 a.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
Price:  Free
National Women’s Liberation 
Beneﬁ  t
What: Listen to live music at the 
Roe v. Wade anniversary and 
NWL beneﬁ  t.
When: Doors open at 9 p.m., 
show starts at 10 p.m.
Where: the Backyard at Boca Fi-
esta and Palomino.
Price:  $5 to $15.University of Florida Women’s Bas-
ketball vs. Arkansas
What: Watch basketball, cheer for 
the Gators and eat some nachos.
When: Noon
Where: Stephen C. O’Connell Center
Price:  UF Student - Free; Under 17 - 
$2; Adult - $4; Reserved Tickets 
- $5
The Step Crew
What: Six dancers and a ﬁ  ve-piece 
band create a Celtic show by 
combining Irish step, traditional tap and Ottawa Valley step.
When: 2 p.m.
Where: University AuditoriumAndres Leiva
Eye in the Sky
Derek Calton, 61, employee of the UF Department of Housing and 
Residence Education, works to set up a camera on Fletcher Hall.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TARPON SPRINGS — A Tampa Bay area 
toddler is dead after ﬁ  nding his father’s .38-cal-iber handgun in the family’s car Wednesday afternoon and shooting himself, ofﬁ  cials said.
Kaleb Ahles, 2, was in the car while his par-
ents Kevin Ahles and Christina Nigro, both 23, loaded boxes as they prepared to move, ac-cording to Pinellas County Sheriff’s deputies. Somehow, the boy opened the glove compart-ment where his father had stored the gun.
The child lifted the gun, turned it so that it 
faced his chest and squeezed the trigger, the Tampa Bay Times reported.
His parents told deputies they heard a loud 
pop and ran to the car. 
The mother performed CPR, and the boy 
was taken to a hospital where he was pro-nounced dead.“He probably barely got the trigger pulled,” 
said Sheriff Bob Gualtieri. 
He described the gun as a lightweight weap-
on usually carried in a pocket or on a hip.
Gualtieri called the incident a “tragic situ-
ation.”
“It’s just one of those things that happens 
where everything lined up the wrong way,” he said.
The sheriff said the parents won’t face crimi-
nal charges. 
No one could punish them more than they’ll 
punish themselves, he said.
The child’s grandfather, a retired Tampa po-
lice detective who is also named Kevin Ahles, stood near the police tape outside the house Wednesday evening. 
“A great little kid was killed today,” he said. 
“That’s all there is to say.”Florida toddler fatally shoots 
self with dad’s gun found in carFRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-23BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
House for Rent - Minutes from UF
3BR/2BA on quiet street. SE 48th St. Perfect 
for grad student or artist. Vauled ceilins, lots 
of watery light! Mary Jane Brunel, Green 
Tree Realty 352-281-1968    1-23-15-3-2
3BR. partially furnished. Right for man and 
wife on fixed income. No pets. In Old Town, FL 901-517-6202    1-28-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
CENTRAL FLORIDA Waterfront Condo Liquidation at below builder cost! Was $484,100, Now $169,900! 3 bedroom, turn-key, close to major cities. Visit online fllake-frontcondos.com.    1-23-1-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
SWIMMING POOL SERVICE ACCOUNTS, Lake City, FL. Asking $16,000 = 8 months grosse @ 10 hours work per week. Year-round accounts. Must sell, I have too much work. 386-590-3561    1-28-15-5-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-1202 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UP
NO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    
4-22-14-71-12The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14SUMMER JOBS: Summer Camp Recreation Program: Counselors/Assistant Program Supervisors/Program Supervisors/Recreation Specialists from 6/8/15-7/31/15 for chil-dren ages 5-14 and WSI/Lifeguard. City of Plantation is (west of Ft. Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave., Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org to download application   1-23-15-4-14.
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, Energetic person.
Experience preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be available weekends.
Apply in person
Spyglass 701 SW 62nd Blvd
4-22-15-68-14
Fraternity Management Assistant.Work with Accounts Payable/Receivable, Handle Invoices, Attend Weekly Fraternity Meetings, etc. Must be dependable, knowl -
edgeable, and focused. Min of 10-15 hours a week. Email Resume to info@fratmgmt.com    1-28-15-6-14
Experienced breakfast cook sought by Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy. Apply in person.     1-28-15-5-14
Part Time Job at CITT on campus help with online courses 20 hrs/wk, $10/hr, flex schedule basic knowledge of: Windows, MS Office and Photoshop Will be assisting Faculty Please drop your resume at 2215 Turlington Hall    1-28-15-5-14
Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
ITC Defense seeking reliable student for 10 hrs/wk @ $8.05/hr. Great resume build -
er doing government contract research & social media strategy. Send resumes to: ITCStudent@ITCDefense.com    1-30-15-6-14
Investor seeks student partner / webde -
signer to help build web-based business in exchange for % of business. Willing to cover expenses. Must be positive. jholifield1@gmail.com    1-23-15-1-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW! Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOAD NO Experience Needed. Local CDL Training Apply Today! 1-800-709-7364    1-23-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    1-23-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator 
Training! 3 Week Program. Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators.  Lifetime Job Placement Assistance with National Certifications.  VA Benefits Eligible! (866) 912-0572    1-23-1-15
Aircraft Dispatch Careers start here – Just 10 weeks training for FAA certification. Working for airlines, airports, cargo and more. Call AIM free info 866-314-5838    1-23-1-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    1-23-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679    1-23-1-15
MEDICAL BILLING TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a Medical Office Assistant! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! Online training can get you job ready! HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! 1-888-528-5547    1-23-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Write an essay on happiness.Win $500. No entry fee.humanhappinessfoundation.org(A Nonprofit Organization)    1-28-15-5-20
GET FREE VENDING MACHINES! All Cash-New Concept. No Competition, Ground Floor Opportunity, Part or Full Time, Protected Territories. Full Details Call Now, 1-866-668-6629: WWW.TCVEND.COM.    1-23-1-20
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND - I-PHONE
In O'Connell Center on 1/20. Level 2, Section 
D, Row 13. Turned in to UPD. Claim there 
with code.    1-26-3-25
FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Lawing becomes a ‘Nole
FSU reportedly hired former UF defensive line coach 
Brad Lawing to be the team’s defensive ends coach on Thursday. Warchant.com ﬁ  rst reported the hiring.UF swim and dive hits the road
The Florida swimming and diving teams are set to face off against Auburn in Auburn, Alabama, on Saturday. The ﬁ  rst event is slated to begin at noon.UF men’s tennis coach Bryan Shelton wants Gordon Watson to take charge of the team. Read the story on Page 16.GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Florida coach Rhonda Faehn 
believes competing in big meets 
early in the year makes a team bet-
ter by season’s end.
It is a good thing she does, be-
cause they don’t come any bigger 
than tonight’s meet at Alabama, 
a program that has won six na-
tional titles including back-to-back championships in 2011 and 2012.
The top-ranked Gators (2-0, 1-0 
Southeastern Conference) travel 
to Tuscaloosa to take on the No. 
7 Crimson Tide (1-1, 0-1 SEC) at 8 p.m. 
The meet will be televised on 
the SEC Network.
The two powerhouses have met 
43 consecutive times with both teams ranked in the top 10 — dat-ing back to 2002. 
But this is the ﬁ  rst time since 
2007 that they have faced off before the calendar reached February.
Faehn said she hopes the early 
meeting will help speed up the growth process.
“It is important that our ath-
letes learn very early on in the sea-son how to perform in that kind of environment,” Faehn said. 
That environment consisted of 
nearly 13,000 fans per home meet 
in 2014, the second-highest aver-
age in the nation and the highest 
average home attendance among 
all SEC women’s athletic pro-grams.
For perspective, that number is 
almost twice that of Florida’s home 
crowd against Auburn last week.
And that number will likely be 
much larger tonight, as a visit from Florida often brings a sellout.
Since 2007, the series is even at 
13-13-2, but winning in Tuscaloosa 
has been impossible for the Gators.
Florida lost in Tuscaloosa last 
season, falling 197.675-197.400, as so many teams have.
In fact, Alabama hasn’t lost a 
home meet since a 2009 defeat at 
the hands of LSU.
Breaking that streak will be a 
tall order for a Florida team minus 
Bridget Sloan with three freshmen 
likely to compete.
Faehn said her message to the 
team has been to focus on the task at hand and ignore the external 
factors.
“What we tell the athletes and UF gymnastics heads to Tuscaloosa for tough meet against ‘Bama
Both are top-10 teams
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Claire Boyce celebrates after her uneven parallel bars routine during Florida’s 197.20-195.650 win 
against Auburn on Friday in the O’Connell Center.
The Florida basketball 
team is, for lack of a bet-ter term, terrible.
I was hesitant to say this, 
but after watching LSU de-stroy UF 79-61 on Tuesday night, there’s no other word to 
describe this year’s basketball 
team.
The Gators were expected 
to take a step back this season. 
That was a given.
Any team that loses four of its ﬁ  ve start-
ers that led it to four straight Elite Eights 
and a Final Four isn’t going to be the same.
But you probably didn’t see them step-
ping back this much.
In just 18 games this season, the Gators 
already have eight losses.
During Billy Donovan’s ﬁ  rst 18 years at 
the helm of the Florida basketball program, only Billy D’s ﬁ  rst team in the 1996-97 season suffered more losses in its ﬁ  rst 18 games, go-
ing 9-9 in that span.
That team ﬁ  nished the year 
13-17 and didn’t reach the 
postseason.
Not the NCAA.Not the NIT.And this year’s team is 
heading in that direction.
The Gators are still looking for their ﬁ  rst 
signature win, a victory they can point to and say, “This is why we deserve to com-pete in the postseason.”
They’ve had their opportunities, and 
those opportunities were wasted.
A last-second loss to Miami.An 18-point lead in the second half 
against Kansas evaporated.Gators men’s basketball not 
playing to Billy D’s standards
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
After winning its ﬁ  rst two matches 
of the year, the Gators men’s tennis team heads into its ﬁ  rst big tourna-
ment of the year.
No. 13 Florida (2-0) opens the 2015 
ITA Kick Off by facing Ole Miss (1-0) at 11 a.m. on Saturday at the Ring 
Tennis Complex.
South Carolina and Stanford will 
also be competing in the tournament in Gainesville.
Even though Florida has won its 
ﬁ  rst two meets this season with rela-tive ease, coach Bryan Shelton always believes in a way to get better. 
“I feel pretty good about (this 
weekend),” Shelton said. “I feel like we’ve been practicing well, which is important and I feel like the health of 
our team is as good as it can be. They 
have become better at taking care of themselves, taking care of the little things.”
Junior Gordon Watson, who made 
his singles debut last Friday against the Trojans is conﬁ  dent that the teams biggest threat is their chemistry and that will push them to do big things in 
the ITA tournament.
“I think (chemistry) goes a long 
way, if someone is down you know 
it and you can pick them up and this weekend we will just be able to feed 
off each other and hopefully get the 
W,” Watson said.
The 5-foot-11 Naples native, who Florida tennis ready to host 
ITA Kick Off Weekend
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126AIR JORDAN
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15SEE TENNIS, PAGE 15SEE GYMNASTICS, PAGE 14Florida’s lineup will be similar to the one used against Auburn
what we really try and do is just to remain 
together as a group,” she said, “and we can-not compete depending on the circumstanc-es, things that we can’t control. We really just try and handle and control the things that we can do.”
And she doesn’t want the team to worry 
about mistakes.
“I always say if we’re going to make a 
mistake, I want it by going 150 percent in-stead of holding back,” she said.
Claire Boyce was a freshman when Flor-
ida faced Alabama last season, and she said she now knows what to expect going back for a second time. She’s looking forward to the hostile environment.
“Nobody’s gonna be on our side, no-
body’s gonna be cheering for us, but that just means we need to be closer as a team and really focus on each other and what each of us needs,” she said.
“It deﬁ  nitely pushes me. I don’t know if 
everybody’s like that, but when somebody’s telling me I can’t do it, I just wanna do it more, so when they’re sitting over there and they’re like ‘boo!’ I’m like ‘I’m gonna show you something.’”
Faehn said she expected Florida’s event 
lineups to be largely similar to last week’s meet against Auburn.GYMNASTICS , from page 13It’s time to move on.
Immediately fol-
lowing Florida’s 77-42 
loss to No. 1 South Caro-lina at home on Monday, coach Amanda Butler said that the Gators would have difﬁ  culty putting the loss behind them.
That Florida would have to just 
move on to the next game and try not to think about the lashing the team had just received.
I’m not sure if that’s going to 
work. 
Not this year.Butler wants to be the coach of 
the Florida Gators. 
That much abundantly clear. She 
has passion, and she wants success for the University of Florida.
But she’s just not a very good of-
fensive coach, and that’s obviously a 
huge factor of basketball.
The defense, dubbed Hector in 
the offseason for how hectic the team 
envisioned it being, has been ser-
viceable with the under-equipped 
players that Florida has.
To put it bluntly, Florida’s guards 
are small and undersized.
Size differential carries greater 
signiﬁ  cance in women’s basketball than men’s, due to the lesser degree 
of athleticism present in the sport.
It doesn’t matter if you have the 
best court vision if you can’t see over opposing players, and there’s plenty of evidence to back that up.Carlie Needles is 
regarded as the vocal leader of the Gators. She urges all players into a huddle during any stoppage in play, doing anything she can to motivate her team-mates. 
It’s a great sign of camaraderie, 
and it shows Needles cares about motivating her teammates, the teammates that have become her family.
But Needles has disappeared 
during signiﬁ  cant portions of games at times this season. 
Several people I’ve spoken to 
around the program think she’s lost some of her conﬁ  dence, especially in her shot.
But who can blame her? The 
team doesn’t run an offense that beneﬁ  ts her style of play. Needles is at her best when she 
can run the ﬂ  oor and get out in tran-sition, and the Gators have been un-able to beat their opponents down the court in Southeastern Confer-ence games and get easy buckets.
Teams are simply too fast or big-
ger than them, or they’ve scouted Florida and know they score easiest on the run.
Butler doesn’t want to focus on 
the team’s offensive issues in prac-tice. She insists on focusing on de-
fense, because she knows how well 
Florida plays in transition when the team forces a turnover and beats its opponent down the court.
She’s moved on from focusing on 
offense. I don’t know Butler or what she’s thinking, but I think she under-stands the futility of the offense.
Butler is realizing it’s a lack of 
personnel — Florida isn’t as talented 
as most of the SEC. This season is a 
lost one for the Gators and hopefully a learning experience for the under-classmen.
While there are still 10 regular 
season games remaining, it’s all but over barring an unforeseen turn-around.
Amanda Butler has been coach of 
the Florida Gators for eight seasons 
now. I know she wants to continue 
leading the program.
But Florida may decide that it’s 
time to move on from Butler before the Gators can move on from the losses.
Aaron Albright / Alligator
UF women’s basketball coach Amanda Butler stares down the court during Florida’s 77-42 loss to No. 1 South Carolina on Monday in the O’Connell Center.14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
INSTAGRAHAM
Amanda Butler feeling the heat while Gators struggle
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Florida’s top scores this season by rotation
Vault (Two-way tie)
Bridget Sloan and Alex McMurtry, 10.000
Uneven Bars (Three-way tie) 
Bridget Sloan, Bridgette Caquatto 
and Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto, 9.950
Balance Beam  
Claire Boyce, 9.925 (vs. Ball State)
Floor Exercise
Bridgette Caquatto, 9.950 (vs. Ball State)
All-Around 
Kytra Hunter, 39.500 (vs. Auburn)FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Florida is still looking 
for a signature win
And, most recently, back-to-
back Southeastern Conference 
losses to Georgia and LSU, in 
which both the Bulldogs and Ti-
gers each made more than half of their field-goal attempts.
These merely highlight Flori-
da’s struggles this season.
The Gators are 0-5 against 
teams in the current RPI top 50 and have defeated just one of the eight teams they have faced in 
the top 100 — Yale, which clocks 
in at No. 65.
That’s not a postseason team.That’s not even a sign of a 
quality team.
And that’s definitely not a 
team that fits the Billy Donovan mold Gator fans have been ac-customed to seeing throughout 
the past decade.
Donovan admitted postgame 
on Tuesday he isn’t surprised at 
his team’s early woes.
“Some of it’s habitual,” Dono-van said. “We’re talking about trying to change habits in a lot of ways for these guys. … We’re not talented enough to do those 
things.”
Donovan has tried every tactic 
in the book to break his team of 
their bad habits, including bench-ing them whenever an error oc-
curs.
But all that has resulted in is 
10 players averaging at least 14.1 
minutes per game and a sense of 
chemistry to be lacking.
On top of that, Florida’s next 
three games — Saturday against 
Ole Miss, Tuesday against Ala-bama and Jan. 31 against Ar-
kansas — will be anything but a 
cakewalk.
All three teams are ranked at 
least No. 55 in the RPI poll and 
have the potential to reach the 
NCAA Tournament.
This is not a Billy Donovan 
team.
And the Gators have a long 
way to go.COLUMN , from page 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan stares down the court during Florida’s 72-47 win 
against Mississippi State on Jan. 10 in the O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Freshman Chase Perez-Blanco hits a open-stance forehand during Florida’s 9-3 win against William & Mary on Jan. 9 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Perez-Blanco ready for competition
is also one of the captains has 
watched as the younger players have grown over the course of 
the year.
He is excited to see how well 
they will compete against high-
er competition — including the 
chance to face up to two South-
eastern Conference teams in South Carolina and Ole Miss.
“I think (this weekend) will 
be good for the younger guys to 
see some of our completion for 
the SEC because that’s one of our biggest goals this year is to win the SEC,” Watson said. “This 
weekend is huge because of the national indoors but for them to 
be able to see how its like, the intensity between each team and 
how different each player is, it 
will be great for even the cap-tains, Maxx (Lipman) and I and everybody else to see what they 
have this year.”
Chase Perez-Blanco, one of the 
two true freshmen on the team, 
has made an impact on Florida’s program thus far since the day he 
came to UF.
The Miami native believes 
that him and his teammates are 
prepared for this weekend and 
ready to see what results are to 
come out of their hard work.
“(I’m) definitely ready,” Per-
ez-Blanco said. “This (day) has been circled 
on the calendar and I’ve been preparing and working hard in 
the gym and on the field and on 
court and everything. We’re defi-nitely ready to go out there and compete.”
The Gators have two wins to 
show for the beginning of their season. 
But Shelton believes that there 
is much more to show for a match 
than the scoreboard.
“There’s a lot that goes into 
going out there and playing great 
tennis and feel like our team is 
taking care of the little details 
well,” he said. 
“I’m excited about the oppor-
tunity this weekend.”TENNIS , from page 13
 KATIE STENGEL IS FROM MELBOURNE.
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Katie Stengel grew up in Melbourne, Flor-
ida.
But when she takes the field on Saturday at 
James G. Pressly Stadium, she won’t be wear-
ing orange and blue for the Gators. 
Instead, Stengel will be suiting up for the 
team she has played professionally for since 
August of 2014 — FC Bayern Munich.
Florida will host the German-based club on 
Saturday at 6 p.m. and then FC Bayern will 
travel to Orlando to face the U-20 U.S. Wom-
en’s National Team on Tuesday as part of the 
team’s winter training camp. 
Stengel said she is happy to be back home in the Sunshine State for about a week.
“The team has been great and it’s been fun 
to get used to a whole new culture and a whole new place,” Stengel said on how she’s adjusted 
to life overseas. 
“I actually love Munich, the city, so it’s been 
difficult but it’s been fun.”
Stengel played her college soccer at Wake 
Forest and won the U-20 Women’s World Cup with the U.S. team in Japan in 2012. 
Now, she has scored a team-high 7 goals 
with FC Bayern since she joined the team. Sten-
gel is just 22 years old.
She said the game against the Gators won’t 
be anything to take lightly and that the team is excited for the challenge.
“I think (FC Bayern is) really expecting a 
hard game, a fun game,” Stengel said. 
“It should be pretty competitive.”FC Bayern Munich player has 
Florida roots, enjoying returnSOCCER16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
The top-ranked Florida men’s and women’s 
track and field teams head to Lexington, Kentucky, 
today to compete in the Rod McCravy Memorial 
Invitational, which is hosted by the University of 
Kentucky.
In addition, the Gators will duel 
with Kentucky and Miami at Nutter 
Fieldhouse.
While the first meet of the sea-
son included only the hurdlers and 
sprinters, coach Mike Holloway is expanding the lineup for this week-
end. 
The Gators will compete in 26 of 
the 32 individual events and in all four relays.
Nine Gators will be competing in multiple indi-
vidual events, including senior jumper Ciarra Brew-
er, who was an All-American and the Southeastern Conference champion in the triple jump in 2014.
Brewer also holds the record for the McCravy Me-
morial Invitational in the triple jump, which she set 
in 2014.
Florida will be looking to defend its 2014 meet title 
in the men’s 4x400 meter relay. The Gators also hold 
the Nutter Fieldhouse record in the 4x4, which was 
set in 2009.
Senior jumper Marquis Dendy will make his first 
appearance of the season, participating in the long 
jump and triple jump events.
Dendy, along with senior sprinter Dedric Dukes, 
was named to The Bowerman Trophy Men’s Pre-season Watch List on Jan. 7.Gators travel to 
Kentucky for Rod McCravy InviteTRACK AND FIELD
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Gordon Watson is deep in 
thought. 
When he was younger, the right-
hander on the UF men’s tennis team 
said he would always tell his dad “I’m 
going to work on everything.”
His dad did not like that answer.“It would drive him nuts,” Watson 
said.
Now, in his third year of collegiate 
tennis, Watson is learning how to take 
a more individualistic approach with 
his tennis goals.
“Each week, coming out with a 
specific goal ‘I’m going to accomplish 
this today. I’m going to accomplish that today’ is the biggest for me,” Wat-son said.
And Watson has seen some early 
accomplishments in Florida’s young 
Spring season.
The junior from Naples is already 
2-0 in doubles play, winning both matches on the show court with fel-
low junior Diego Hidalgo.
But heading into the ITA Kick Off 
Weekend — which begins on Sat-urday and sees Florida host No. 29 South Carolina, No. 31 Stanford and 
No. 32 Ole Miss — Watson still has 
room to grow in his singles play.
He made his singles debut this sea-
son in Florida’s 5-2 win against Troy on Friday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Playing on the No. 3 court, Wat-
son dropped a three-set match to the Trojans’ Hassan Ndayishimye (7-6 (5), 
3-6, 12-10).“That was great that he was able to 
start last week,” UF coach Bryan Shel-
ton said. “I think he has a better un-derstanding of what he needs to do to be successful out there on the court.”
As one of Florida’s team captains, 
Watson has seen progression from the younger players on the team.
Watching them practice day-in and 
day-out is a key component to seeing where players need to improve.
“You come back, and you get to see 
where everyone is and see how hard they trained over break, but nothing compares to training here,” Watson said. “You can train your butts off anywhere else, but when you come here, it’s just a totally different level.”
And Shelton expects Watson to 
train his butt off to improve.
“He just needs to keep playing,” 
Shelton said. “He loves the game. He loves to compete. I expect him to be fighting and battling out there for us this weekend and help lead the charge.”
Watson leads charge for UF men’s tennis
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gordon Watson serves during Florida’s 9-3 win against William & Mary on 
Jan. 9 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
“You can train your butts off 
anywhere else, but when you 
come here, it’s just a totally 
different level.”
Gordon Watson
UF tennis player
Holloway
