VOLUME 109 ISSUE 88 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
National deal day will give students a break
Companies such as Billabong and Spotify will offer deals, pg 9.  
UF research roundup
Primates in trees, humans killing bats and a tick virus, pg 5. Troubled UF men’s basketball team to 
play ‘Bama tonight
Florida is on a three-game losing streak, pg. 13. Carlie Needles 
gives the UF 
women’s basketball 
team a much-needed 
boost when she is on 
the court. Read the 
story on Page 14.
64/36
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Emergency Need
Scott Strauss, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior, squeezes a stress ball while donating blood in a LifeSouth bus parked next to Century Tower on Monday afternoon. “I donate every chance I get,” Strauss said.
STATE
STELLA HEEKIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The hunt could be back on after two decades of banning 
black bear hunting in Florida.
The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission 
will discuss the issue at the next commission meeting, set in 
Jacksonville on Feb. 4. An increase in bear biting, sighting and 
injury reports from bear and human contact have pushed the 
need for a discussion, said Carli Segelson, a spokesperson for the FWC.
But the discussion over bear hunting is still in the process, 
she said.Hunting the Florida black bear has been largely banned 
since 1971. But in 1994, the ban expanded across the state, ac-cording to the FWC website.
James Ross, an associate professor for the UF Wildlife Ecol-
ogy and Conservation Department, said that since the ban, the bears that were left alone for 20 to 30 years are now moving outside of isolated regions.
The movement of bears outside protected areas, such as Black bears could soon be fair game for Florida hunters
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
The Gator Stompin’ tradition will live on in 2015 in order 
to pay off debt from last year’s event.
Tickets are on sale for the 33rd annual Gator Stompin’, a 
local pub crawl, which will be held on April 30. However, the Pledge 5 Foundation, a non-proﬁ  t organization behind 
the event, still owes about $150,000 from 2014’s event.
Jason Bowman, the foundation’s director, said ending 
Gator Stompin’ in 2015 would have meant less revenue to 
pay off the debt.
“If we gave up and decided to close up shop, we don’t 
have any assets,” Bowman said. “The items we have in the thrift stores would not be enough.”
The debt accrued after the foundation spent around 
$200,000 for venues, an expanded staff and a concert featur-
ing DJ Wolfgang Gartner and rapper Waka Flocka Flame. 
Though almost 7,000 people participated in the event, 
Bowman had difﬁ  culty paying employees and venues for 
their participation.
“I made some business decisions that let a lot of people 
down in what they were contractually promised,” Bowman Gator Stompin’ 
2015 will go on despite debt issues
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
For $15,000, two UF freshmen pledged to 
shave their heads.
In a video uploaded to YouTube, Devon 
Leasure and Mariya Markova — both with 
long, straight hair — said they hope to raise 
the money by March 15 to support Dance 
Marathon and inspire others to support the cause in the process.
“Basically, the reason that we decided to 
do it is because neither of us were getting any serious traction on our DM donation pages,” Leasure said.
“We decided to do something that would 
probably be an incentive for other people to want to donate because I feel like people would like to see the two of us bald,” the 18-year-old political science major added.
Dance Marathon is a student-run philan-
thropy that aims to raise money and aware-ness for Children’s Miracle Network Hos-pitals. Earlier this month, the philanthropy raised $139,274.65 in its ﬁ  rst 24-hour event, 
just short of its $150,000 goal.When the two freshmen ﬁ  rst pitched the 
idea to friends and family, they said some 
were shocked and suggested doing something 
else, like dyeing their hair, cutting it into a 
mullet or getting a tattoo.
But the two freshmen decided to stick with 
their original plan, and their announcement has gotten more people interested in Dance Marathon. As of press time, both students have raised a total of $1,093. They said they 
had about half that amount before uploading 
their video on Jan. 22.
“We felt like we had to do something dras-
tic and these kids, some of them have to not have hair, and it’s not their choice,” said Mar-kova, a 19-year-old business major. “So I feel like we did (this) because we wanted them to feel OK, like somebody normal could be bald and be beautiful and they didn’t have to feel 
like they were the only one.” Hairless awareness: Students make deal with Internet for DMSEE PLEDGE,  PAGE 4SEE BEARS, PAGE 4
“We decided to do something that 
would be an incentive for other people 
to want to donate.”
Devon Leasure
UF political science freshman“There are some places around the state that 
are just hot spots for where people and bears are 
interacting almost on a daily basis.”
James Ross
associate professor, UF Wildlife Ecology and Conservation Dept.News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 88 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
69/47SUNNY
67/41SUNNY
66/42SUNNY
58/32SUNNY
64/36
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. the 18-hole disc golf course at 
Lake Wauburg’s south shore on Feb. 21. The tournament will have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three 
divisions: Men’s Amateur, 
Women’s Amateur and Advanced. The top three par-ticipants in each division will receive a prize. There will also be two contests — Longest Drive and Closest to the Pin — that will take place dur-ing the event. The winners 
of each of these contests will 
also receive a prize. To regis-ter, visit rsconnect.recsports.ufl.edu.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your foreign 
language skills, make friends, 
establish new contacts, strengthen your resume and intern abroad. All of these op-portunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on Feb. 4 on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For ad-ditional information visit ufic.
ufl.edu/sas/index.html or 
email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets TuesdaysTalking Gators meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the Entomology Building off of Natural Area 
Drive, east of the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art. For more information go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org. Talking Gators is also on Facebook. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience 
in which members are em-
powered to develop commu-nication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confi-dence and personal growth.” All are welcome.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Want WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Intramural Sports
Registration for sand vol-leyball and team racquetball ends Thursday at noon. Spring leagues for sand volleyball 
include men’s, women’s and 
co-rec. Leagues for racquetball include men’s, women’s, frater-nity and sorority. For more in-formation about rules, registra-tion and game schedules, visit recsports.ufl.edu/intramural-sports/schedule/.
Gay Movie Night: “In Bloom”
Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Pride Community Center at 3131 NW 13th St. This witty, intel-ligent and painfully honest tale is set during one hot Chicago summer, where two young men fall in love. Add the fore-boding threat of a killer on the 
loose, and this incredibly rich 
and rewarding film becomes unmissable. Kurt and Paul seem very solid and in love, liv-ing large in their home city of Chicago thanks in part to Kurt’s successful pot-dealing busi-ness. Everything is going their way. But when a sexy young 
customer makes a play for Kurt, 
subtle fissures in their relation-ship and an unsatisfied long-ing for what they don’t have are exposed, threatening their relationship and possibly their lives. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is re-
quested to cover cost of snacks.
Rock the Block with GatorNights
This week, we’re collaborating 
with a lot of awesome student groups to bring you an event like no other. Get to know the Asian American Student Union at the Block Party on the North 
Lawn Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 
a.m. Laugh out loud with RUB Entertainment and Cat Ladies, an all-female improv com-edy trio starring comedians of MTV’s “Girl Code.” Plus free food, games, and live music from Like the Movies. This is a party you don’t want to miss! 
It’s always Friday and always 
free with a Gator One Card.
Disc Golf tournament
Registration for the ninth an-nual disc golf tournament opens 9 a.m. Saturday. The tournament will be played on to improve your writing skills 
while making new friends? 
Then come to the Creative Writing Club every Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 014. Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a mem-ber of the group and then discussing the story with the 
whole group with a focus on 
constructive criticism. There are no requirements to join, just come and have fun with us.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Hannah Morse / Alligator
Manatee Vanity
Bailey Boulter, a 20-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation major, looks on Friday as 
a manatee comes up for air at Three Sisters Springs on Crystal River. 
MICHELLE TAPIA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Business is booming for Lazy Deliv-
ery as it expands its services to Tallahas-
see.
Lazy Delivery, which delivers 
anything that can ﬁ  t into a standard-
sized car, has experienced tremendous 
growth in the 12 months since its launch in Gainesville. Its founders, Marc Char-bel, 24, Manuel Zelaya, 25, and Daniel Zelaya, 24, said they intend to continue.  
What started as a grocery delivery 
service targeted at college students has evolved into a means for businesses, the elderly and families.
Co-founder Daniel Zelaya said this 
extension of the service caught him off guard.
“I was personally surprised about 
how many parents found out about us,” he said. “There are parents in other cit-ies ordering groceries for their kids at UF.”
Now, the founders hope for Lazy 
Delivery to stretch across Florida.
“The default now is, ‘I need grocer-
ies, therefore I need to go to the store,’” Zelaya said. “We want to change that re-ality to, ‘I need groceries so I’m getting it delivered.’” 
For students like Elena Hernandez, a 
20-year-old UF accounting sophomore, Lazy Delivery serves a very important purpose.
“I can see myself using it even though 
I have a car,” she said. “I never ﬁ  nd time to do grocery shopping in college.”
For instant delivery — which ar-
rives within two hours — the business charges $13 to deliver 10 different items. For scheduled deliveries, the business charges $9 to deliver 10 different items.
Services in Tallahassee is expected to 
launch in February.Lazy Delivery takes grocery 
service to Tallahasseethe Ocala National Forest, and the 
increase of Florida’s human popu-lation has led to more human and bear contact since the 1970s, Ross said.
When it comes to food, bears are 
opportunistic and will eat almost anything, he said. So when a source of food arises, they take advantage, which is often in people’s garbage.    
“There are some places around 
the state that are just hot spots for where people and bears are inter-acting almost on a daily basis,” Ross said.
Ross warns that improperly 
stored garbage is easy pickings for 
bears.
The increase in bear and human 
contact, Ross said, is a combination 
of people behavior and bear behav-ior, causing an increase in nuisance bear cases in both rural and subur-ban areas in the state.
On Dec. 3, Jeanne Barber was at-
tacked by a black bear while walk-
ing her dog in Seminole County, 
according to the Associated Press. The bear clamped its jaw around her arm, and Barber was taken to the hospital as wildlife officials tried to figure out what went wrong.
Despite the increase in attacks, 
bringing bear hunting back to Flor-ida could create a clash in beliefs, Ross said.
Some people have made the ar-
gument that hunting could control the population growth and could be compared with the hunting of deer and wild pigs. But Ross said the idea of killing live creatures bothers 
many, and opposition is strong. For 
some people, bears are a symbol of cultural values, tradition and belief, he said.
said.  “I regret the way it played out.”
Bowman said moving for-
ward with Gator Stompin’ 2015 will help the payment process. 
Nearly 1,000 tickets have been 
sold since opening on Dec. 1, and the sales are being funneled into an account that will go di-rectly to the debt. 
Bowman said he’s paying 
more attention to money while planning this year’s event.
“I think I was naive in think-
ing I could hire a team and have them immediately execute an event that has grown to this size,” he said.
Part of the difficulty this year 
is recruiting venues, which Bow-man hasn’t had to do before.
Mel Crawford, owner of 
Sweet Mel’s Bar and Grill, com-
mitted to a fourth year of par-
ticipation despite being owed about $800.
For her, upholding the tra-
dition is more important than money.
“When you do Gator Stompin’, the event is not for the profitability,” Crawford said. “To me, it’s a rite of passage that the students feel strongly about.”
She estimated Bowman ini-
tially owed her $3,400 but has 
received three payments that 
cover most of the debt.
“I’m the kind of person that 
says bad things happen to good people,” Crawford said. “With a little bit more time, he will be standing straight and tall, and I trust him.”
Others have been less patient 
with the delay. Bowman has been to court twice to settle law-suits over payment, one with the Midnight Bar and one with a former employee, Emily Sacco. 
Bowman declined to com-
ment on the settlements because of a confidentiality agreement.
“We’re dedicated to mak-
ing things right and getting this debt paid off,” Bowman said. “The Pledge 5 Foundation can continue generating volunteers for the community, and the tra-dition of Gator Stompin’ will continue.”The company has been 
sued twice over debt4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Let’s Go for a Ride
John Poynton, a 23-year-old UF geology senior, prepares to ride with 
members of Team Florida Cycling atop his Felt AR5 road bike Mon -
day afternoon on Turlington Plaza.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Three years after black bears were removed from the threatened species list in the state, they might soon be target for hunters. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission will discuss the options Feb. 4.
Some are opposed to hunting bears
BEAR , from page 1
PLEDGE , from page 1CAMPUS
RALPHY LOPEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity invited two 
World War II veterans to its home Sunday to show 
gratitude for their service.
Tom Santarsiero, 89, and Frank Towers, 97, were 
welcomed to the fraternity house to share their sto-ries, although Towers was unable to attend.
The Phi Mu Sorority hosted the men two weeks 
ago, and the house father, Don Gaddo, reached out to the Greek community for further support, wrote Brian Joy, a UF political science senior and at-large member of Lambda Chi Alpha, in an email.
Joy said Gaddo asked him if there was anything 
he and the brothers could do to recognize the gen-tleman for their services.             
The brothers invited both Santarsiero and Tow-
ers to a private ceremony. Towers was preparing for surgery and couldn’t 
attend. 
At the ceremony, Santarsiero addressed the 
chapter and shared what it was like becoming a 
man in the face of war.
“Our goal was to recognize these veterans for 
their services, show our appreciation for the sac-
rifices they have made and to help bridge our two generations together,” Joy, 21, said.
Dylan Sutton, a UF environmental engineering 
senior and the Lambda Chi Alpha alumni relations chair, wrote in an email that it was awe-inspiring to meet Santarsiero and hear what he went through.
“He did not have the privileges that we take 
for granted today, so at the age of 18, he was sent off into a death trap,” Sutton, 21, said. “The fact that he survived is beyond a miracle, and we are so honored to honorarily initiate him and let him 
into our bond.”
Joy said that the veterans have not been initiat-
ed as honorary brothers yet, and they are currently 
working with the national Lambda Chi Alpha or-
ganization to make it possible.
“By taking the time to learn their experiences 
and share your stories with them, there is so much 
opportunity to grow as men and truly appreciate what we have,” Sutton said.Fraternity honors war veterans, 
inducts them into brotherhood
“Our goal was to recognize these 
veterans for their services, show our 
appreciation for the sacrifices they 
have made and to help bridge our two 
generations together.”
Brian Joy
member of Lamda Chi AlphaTUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Asia Emory / Alligator 
Henna for Hire
Najia Faddoul (left) receives a henna tattoo from Sana Adalsha on Monday afternoon on Plaza of the Americas. 
The 19-year-old UF freshmen were offering henna tattoos to raise money for Orlando high-schoolers.
SOPHIA KARNEGIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sandra Wilson is switching seats in the UF Insti-
tute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.
On Wednesday, IFAS announced Wilson as the 
new interim chair of the environmental horticulture 
department, a branch of agriculture involving land-scape.
Although she recently moved to Gainesville, 
Wilson is not new to the Gator Nation. 
For the past 15 years, she worked as a UF profes-
sor and researcher at the IFAS research facility in Fort Pierce.
“Florida is the second largest ornamental indus-
try in the nation,” Wilson said. “It generates billions of dollars and thousands of jobs for the state.”
As the new interim chair, Wilson said she plans 
to recruit the best students to the program and 
bring an identity to environmental horticulture, 
demonstrating its ability to serve its students. She also said she’s working on strategic hiring to bring in the best faculty.
“We’re working on national branding,” Wilson 
said. “That is who we are and who we serve.”
Ruth Borger, IFAS assistant vice president of 
communications, said Wilson is a qualified candi-
date because of her extensive experience at the In-
dian River Research and Education Center.
“She has the research background and the ad-
ministrative capacity to take on the role,” Borger 
said.
Jack Payne, the UF senior vice president of agri-
culture and natural resources, said he hired Wilson 
because she represented the mission of the institute.
Wilson will work with IFAS to bring new knowl-
edge, programs and products to Florida residents, Payne said.
“She’s a great teacher and a great scientist,” he 
said.IFAS interim chair 
appointed, plans to recruit students
“Florida is the second largest ornamental 
industry in the nation. It generates billions 
of dollars and thousands of jobs for the 
state.”
Sandra Wilson
interim chairNATIONAL
 THE AREA EXPECTS UP TO 3 
FEET OF SNOW.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK (AP) — More than 
35 million people along the Phila-
delphia-to-Boston corridor rushed to get home and settle in Monday as a fearsome storm swirled in with the 
potential for hurricane-force winds 
and 1 to 3 feet of snow that could paralyze the Northeast for days.
Snow was blowing sideways 
with ever-increasing intensity in New York City by midafternoon as flurries began in Boston. Forecast-ers said the storm would build into a blizzard, and the brunt of it would 
hit late Monday and into Tuesday.
As the snow got heavier, much of 
the region rushed to shut down.
More than 6,500 flights in and out of the Northeast were canceled, and 
many of them may not take off again until Wednesday. Schools and busi-nesses let out early. Government of-fices closed. Shoppers stocking up on food jammed supermarkets and elbowed one another for what was left. Broadway stages went dark.
“It’s going to be ridiculous out 
there, frightening,” said postal de-liveryman Peter Hovey, standing on a snowy commuter train platform in White Plains, New York.
All too aware that big snow-
storms can make or break politi-cians, governors and mayors moved quickly to declare emergencies and 
order the shutdown of streets and 
highways to prevent stranded trav-elers and to enable plows and emer-gency vehicles to get through.
“This will most likely be one of 
the largest blizzards in the history of New York City,” New York Mayor Bill de Blasio warned.
He urged New Yorkers to go 
home and stay there, adding: “Peo-ple have to make smart decisions from this point on.”
Up to now, this has been a large-
ly snow-free winter in the urban Northeast. But this storm threatened 
to make up the difference in a single 
blow.
The National Weather Service is-
sued a blizzard warning for a 250-mile swath of the region, meaning heavy, blowing snow and potential whiteout conditions. Forecasters warned that the wind could gust to 75 mph or more along the Massachu-
setts coast and up to 50 mph farther 
inland.
“We learned the lesson the hard 
way,” said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, referring to instances in which motorists got stranded in the snow for 24 hours or more.
Snowstorm threatens Northeast US
STAFF REPORT
UF is teeming with qualified 
people working on cutting edge technology that saves lives, re-veals mysteries and solves prob-lems. We’re here to share the 
latest in UF’s advancements, re-
search and studies.
Monkeying AroundContrary to past beliefs, hu-
man’s earliest primate ances-tors may have lived in trees and looked more like squirrels than monkeys.
A study published last week in 
the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found that new ankle bones discovered in Montana provide evidence that the oldest primates, called Purga-
torius, lived in trees.
The wide range of mobility 
in the joints of the ankle bones 
suggests the estimated 3.5-ounce Purgatorius spent its time climb-ing trees and reaching for fruit at the edge of limbs, said lead author Stephen Chester, an as-sistant professor of anthropology 
at Brooklyn College and a UF an-
thropology graduate.
Purgatorius’ ability to climb 
trees was the main reason it sur-vived while other animals be-came extinct. 
Eventually, it evolved into the 
primates that exist today, accord-ing to the study.Going Batty
Humans — not climate change 
— may be to blame for the extinc-
tion of some bat species.
A study published last week 
in Scientific Reports found that at least five species of bats withstood climate change and reduced land area, rejecting previous research on the disappearance of Carib-
bean bat populations.
Knowing when and how the 
bats went extinct could contribute 
to better understanding of biodi-versity and how to save modern-day wildlife from meeting the same fate, said co-author David Steadman, a UF ornithologist.
“Now that we have the tech-
nology to date these small bones, it opens up the possibility of determining the chronology of 
the extinction of bats in the Ca-
ribbean,” Steadman said. “Now we have good evidence that it is not the shrinking of islands that wiped out these populations, and the only thing we know hap-pened in the last thousand years that might affect bat populations is the arrival of people.”
Ticked OffTicks aren’t just pesky — they 
might be downright infectious.
UF researchers published a 
study in the journal PLOS ONE in December on the discovery of a tick common to the Southeast-ern U.S. that may host an unusual 
virus that belongs to the family 
Arenaviridae.The researchers found evi-
dence of the Tacaribe virus in nearly 10 percent of ticks collect-ed, and they cultured the virus from ticks trapped in North Cen-tral Florida, according to scien-tists in the UF colleges of Veteri-nary Medicine and Public Health and Health Professions.
“This finding is exciting be-
cause it expands the range in which these viruses might be circulating in the environment,” said Katherine Sayler, the study’s lead author and a UF doctoral graduate. “It also raises some re-ally interesting questions about human risk.”
All information provided from 
UF news releases.
UF research: primates in trees, humans killing bats, tick virusReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Key West mosquito 
test backlash  
really bites
Key West may become host to an experiment that involves 
male mosquitoes, the herpes virus and cabbage DNA.
The proposed experiment is an effort to combat the 
presence of an invasive mosquito species from Africa — Aedes aegypti. These fuzzy bastards recently started migrating into 
tropical areas outside of Africa. What’s really worrisome is that 
these mosquitoes are highly effective at spreading nasty viruses that cause chikungunya and dengue fever, a disease so painful it’s frequently nicknamed “break-bone fever.”
This is the proposed plan undergoing review by the FDA: 
release millions of genetically modiﬁ  ed mosquitoes into the en-vironment. Said genetic modiﬁ  cations include bits of the herpes simplex virus and genes from cabbage plants which — appar-ently — will have the effect of killing the larvae produced from 
any union between a modiﬁ  ed and a wild mosquito.
Understandably, folks aren’t taking too kindly to the idea 
of having millions of mutated, bloodsucking insects in their 
neighborhoods. When worded like that, it’s a terrifying thought. Mixed with strong anti-GMO sentiments, it shouldn’t come as a surprise people are opposed. A petition on Change.org against the experiment has been signed by more than 140,000 people.
But unless you can’t bring yourself to compromise on the 
GMO issue, this really shouldn’t be too much of a problem. Ox-
itec, the company producing the strain of mosquitoes, is a group 
of Oxford University researchers who started the biotechnology 
group to combat disease. They’re not exactly Monsanto; it isn’t 
as if they’re going to use altered mosquitoes to aggressively se-
cure an empire in the agriculture industry.
Beyond reﬂ  exive resistance to genetic modiﬁ  cation, opposi-
tion to the plan centers on a few points, namely: What happens when a GM mosquito bites a person?
Chances are, it won’t have any effect. Oxitec is banking on the 
fact that only female mosquitoes suck blood, so only males of the GM variety will be released into the wild. They’ll make sweet mutant love to the females, and, if everything goes as planned, 
all of their kids will die and nobody’s blood will get sucked by 
mosquitoes that also have herpes.
We’re no biologists, but we ﬁ  gure it’s pretty difﬁ  cult to spot 
balls on an animal that’s less than one-tenth of an inch long. Multiply that number by several million, and Oxitec’s claim starts to seem pretty presumptuous. But whatever — reviewing claims such as this is the reason the FDA exists in the ﬁ  rst place, and it’s not like these bugs are radioactive.
Oxitec has tested this same procedure before. A trial in the 
Cayman Islands reduced the population of the species by 80 per-cent; Brazil had a successful test, too. Both want more of Oxitec’s mosquitoes.
All other options for eradicating mosquitoes won’t work in 
the long run. They quickly become resistant to pesticides, and killing them one at a time just isn’t practical.
What we have, then, is a good idea that just needs better mar-
keting, and maybe some more testing.
65 TOTAL VOTES75% YES
25% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Do you own a gun?Today’s question: Do you think bear hunting should 
resume in Florida?For-proﬁ  t colleges need accountability
If you’ve ever watched daytime television, you would 
probably recognize this annoying commercial: A young man standing in a parking lot yells at you for sitting on 
the couch and wasting your life. After a few minutes of mak-ing you feel ashamed of your situation, he gives you hope by 
telling you it isn’t too late to ﬁ  nish your degree and land your 
dream career. All you have to do is make a simple phone call.
That was an advertisement for one of the many schools 
operated by Corinthian Colleges Inc., a for-proﬁ  t college company. The ﬁ  rm is currently attempting to merge with Ed-ucational Credit Management Corporation following federal charges of defrauding the government, pressuring students into obtaining thousands of dollars in loans and severely misrepresenting the overall quality of its programs.
These unethical practices are all too common in the for-
proﬁ  t college industry, which continues to generate exces-sive revenues by exploiting low-income adults. For people who struggled academically in high school and are now struggling ﬁ  nancially, these companies provide a tempting solution. In addition to lacking any entrance requirements, for-proﬁ  t colleges offer career-speciﬁ  c training courses, a range of degree programs, ﬁ  nancial aid options and online classes to accommodate even the busiest schedule.
These programs sound immensely appealing, which ex-
plains why they are increasing in popularity despite the slew of lawsuits and federal investigations that plague them. Ac-cording to the National Bureau of Economic Research, for-proﬁ  t colleges account for 42 percent of postsecondary en-rollment growth in the last decade.
This is an extremely troubling trend, especially when 
you consider the manipulative marketing strategies the in-dustry uses. The federal government tried to address this is-
sue when it recently introduced a rule that forces for-proﬁ  t 
colleges to disclose basic information on their websites, in-cluding costs, graduation rates and job placement statistics for its various programs. Unfortunately, no federal standard for calculating job placement rates has been established — which means that for-proﬁ  t colleges can continue to shame-lessly inﬂ  ate their numbers.
For instance, DeVry University brags about how 90 percent of its graduates landed careers in their ﬁ  eld within six months of graduation or were al-ready employed by the time they graduated in 2013. Ninety percent 
is an impressive ﬁ  gure until you 
consider the school only included graduates who were “actively seeking employment.” The school also excluded graduates who de-clined to report their employment statuses.
In reality, for-proﬁ  t colleges produce bleak outcomes for 
their students at extraordinary costs. According to the Col-
lege Board, for-proﬁ  t colleges cost twice as much as a four-
year public university and almost six times more than a com-munity college. ITT Technical Institute, for instance, charges $89,000 for its criminal justice program.
Grants and scholarships are heavily available, but stu-
dents at for-proﬁ  t colleges almost always have to take out loans to make up the difference. Alarmingly, despite the fact for-proﬁ  t college students account for only 11 percent of loan borrowers, they make up almost half of all loan defaulters.
It isn’t difﬁ  cult to guess why. The U.S. Department of Ed-
ucation estimates that about 72 percent of for-proﬁ  t college programs result in graduates earning less than high school dropouts. Considering these statistics, it’s maddening to watch for-proﬁ  t colleges market themselves as quality and affordable educational institutions.
Hopefully, lawmakers will rise above the industry’s pow-
erful lobbying tactics and do more to stand up for students who are only trying to improve their lives. In addition to es-
tablishing a federal standard for the way job placement rates 
are calculated, we also need to ensure that taxpayer dollars will not fund these shady institutions if they continue to use misleading tactics and deliver horriﬁ  c outcomes.
Education is supposed to brighten futures. It’s wrong to 
watch millions suffer while trying to fulﬁ  ll that dream.
Moriah Camenker is a public relations senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Here is an 
example of how 
small the world is: I went on a study-abroad trip the summer be-
tween my junior 
and senior years of high school. The trip in-cluded high school students from all over the U.S. I met 
some really amazing people 
and had a great time. When it was time to say goodbye, we all documented our experi-
ence in a Facebook group and 
tried to keep in contact.
Now I’m in college and 
rooming with a friend I met here at UF. We were relax-
ing in our room this week-
end, and when I happened to glance at her laptop, I saw a friend from my study-abroad 
trip smiling from a proﬁ  le pic-
ture on Facebook. 
My friend from study 
abroad knew a friend of my roommate’s, who happens to 
go to school halfway across 
the country from us. I was so surprised at how small the world is and how intercon-
nected we all are. It got me 
thinking.
There is a theory I once 
heard from my parents called the “six degrees of separa-
tion.” Developed in 1929 by 
an author named Frigyes Kar-inthy, the six degrees of sepa-ration is the idea that each 
person is no more than six 
mutual contacts away from anybody else in the world.
When put in the perspec-
tive of the whole world, this 
theory sounds pretty far-
fetched. I’m only six steps away from people in China? In Australia?
Probably not.However, I am only three 
degrees away from that friend of my roommate, someone I’ve never met, beaming in 
a photo on Facebook. At 
UF, I run into people every day who are only a few de-grees from a friend of mine, 
or a friend of a friend, or 
even an acquaintance from high school. For such a large school, UF does a great job of being a place where you can 
see someone you know every 
day on campus.
For some students, the 
anonymity of a large univer-
sity is welcome. It’s a chance 
to not have to contend with prejudices or previous experi-ences with people they knew from before they graduated 
high school. For others, the 
packed campus can be over-whelming.
In both cases, a big school 
in a small world is a great op-portunity for net-working. Wheth-er it’s drawing on 
relationships with 
old friends who know new friends who know even 
newer friends, or 
making a brand 
new contact list for yourself, the people you meet and greet in college can help you 
reach new opportunities for 
growth, from weekend hobby clubs to job interviews.
I’ve never felt comfortable 
with the idea of network-ing for a purpose. I know it’s something we all should be doing, but I’ve been bothered by connotations of things like 
the old catchphrase: “It’s not 
what you know. It’s who you know.”
I often see examples of the 
validity of this phrase, and it can get depressing. If it’s not about what I know, what am I doing here? What is the point of putting effort into perfect-
ing my skills in something if 
the person with the best con-nections will always win the deal, score the internship or 
be selected for the prize?
It’s not really fair, but the 
way I see it now, it’s also not as 
bad as I think. Think of all the people the average individual 
knows, from childhood to the 
present. Every meeting, every handshake, everyone from casual class acquaintances to 
lifelong friends is someone 
known: a person who is intri-cately connected to their own web of contacts.
Now, our world is so com-
pletely interconnected that networking doesn’t mean sucking up to head honchos in charge anymor — if it re-
ally ever did.
Networking means ﬁ  nd-
ing people who are passion-
ate about the same pursuits and hobbies that interest you. 
Networking means getting 
to know more than a single cliquey social circle and tak-ing the time to reach out to 
people who have the poten-
tial to be more than casual ac-quaintances. 
The beneﬁ  ts of creating 
these connections with other 
people are obvious.
The six degrees of separa-
tion theory was postulated 
by a writer, and while it does 
seem a little ﬁ  ctional, research 
on interconnectivity in so-cial networks still continues today. Networking helps to shrink the degrees of differ-
ence between us all. 
Sally Greider is an English 
and public relations sopho-
more. Her column appears on 
Tuesdays.Six-degree networkingColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
In what some have declared the Age of Apa-
thy, it’s easy to ﬁ  nd anecdotal symptoms of such a disease. For one, there are endless ren-
ditions of, “Oh yeah, there is a lot less activism ... than there was 30 or 40 years ago.” Regardless 
of whether people — speciﬁ  cally, students on campus — are 
increasingly apathetic, there is deﬁ  nitely a sense that we are doing less than we could in regard to various causes and that even if we tried it would be meaningless.
For me, the Black Lives Matter march was the ﬁ  rst ex-
ample of what I expected to be a weekly experience when I applied to the school. It was powerful, and its absence would have been even more of a story than its existence.
However, the hype was short-lived. What, actually, had I 
accomplished? I had been loud. I had been cold for a cause. I had donated an hour of ﬁ  nals study time. I knew it was the right thing to do, but I couldn’t yet ﬁ  nd any tangible impres-sion that my feet left on the movement.
Not only that, but the event drew vitriol. About 50 com-
ments implied that those of us participating in the march should all be killed. “Drop the plow,” said one commenter, who received nearly 100 likes. Others were less violent but equally angry, calling protesters “morons” or “idiots” and 
peppering the thread with racist GIFs.
The pushback made my participation feel all the more 
useless. We didn’t magically sway any residents or students 
simply with our presence; more than that, we may have in-creased antagonism from those we encountered who weren’t already inclined to agree with us.
I looked for optimistic reasons for the importance of 
protest. It’s energizing. It collects a group of relatively like-minded people and channels that energy toward a goal. It 
captures media attention and furthers discussion.
As is often the case with optimism, although these rea-
sons are accurate they miss the central point. The civil rights 
movement protests in the 1960s were effective not because people were “energized,” but because they forced the gov-ernment’s hand. The bottom line: real political change comes down to incentives.
At ﬁ  rst and second glance, it can be hard to see how 
protest puts pressure on the government. Washington is a 
mess of competing interests, and those interests are fueled 
by a whole lot more money than is represented by a group of Wesleyan students.
When protests result in political action, the politicians 
aren’t saying, “Oh hey, I guess they’re right!” Rather, they’re realizing change is in their best interest because it is the inter-est of constituents and they do not want to risk the embar-rassment of ending up on the wrong side or losing elections.
So, my individual impact? Minimal. But I believe in a 
model of trickle-up political change. If my head in the head-count of participants made the number slightly more impres-sive to someone who could pressure someone to make a dif-ference, then at least that’s a tangible impact.
A more important question than whether or to protest 
is the question of how to protest. The problem with many protests is they do not always provide a proper incentive. We talk in Social Psychology about the challenges of bystander intervention: Diffused responsibility and an ambiguous goal or prob-lem mean people are unlikely to act. Think of the 
murder of Kitty Genovese: People did not know what the problem was, and they assumed others would take care of it. The woman died needlessly.
Lessons from this would suggest protests would be more 
effective if they were targeted. Demonstrating general out-rage sends a strong message to others who view the actions, but it is not as politically effective as making demands of the people who you want to act. This means holding speciﬁ  c of-ﬁ  cials accountable for speciﬁ  c actions.
The Occupy movement is one that reﬂ  ected this problem. 
Although it inﬂ  uenced debate and burned the concepts of the “1 percent” and the “99 percent” into household vocab-ulary, it ﬁ  zzled out with far less political effect than it was capable of. It was amorphous, few speciﬁ  c demands were raised and there was no clear target. The public bores eas-ily, and many became disinterested once there was nothing speciﬁ  c to latch on to. The problem was not with the subject or with the people involved but simply with the execution.
You can’t effectively protest “inequality” as an idea; racial 
inequality and income inequality should be fought, but it’s hard to combat an intangible phrase. Yet you can effectively protest unequal policies. In terms of the Black Lives Matter movement, this means forcing legislation against discrimina-tion — something that could be communicated clearly by a standard protest — while separately trying to combat preju-dice, perhaps by means other than a march. It seems like a narrow distinction, but an important one in terms of results.
This is not to say “general awareness” protests are not 
good. On a smaller level, they may inspire individuals to take more concrete action, and they push the level of discus-sion about an issue. However, in our day and age, a push toward general awareness may not take its best form as a typical march. Many only see a video clip of a march as a lot of people walking and screaming, and there’s nothing very inspiring about walking and screaming by itself. It’s a shame, but an increase in social apathy seems to have led to 
malice against those who are passionate, unless that passion 
is specially packaged. An inspiring song or Onion article that goes viral may simply be more effective for the general pub-lic nowadays.
So when (if?) the next campus protest that I believe in 
comes around, will I participate? Absolutely. Will my spe-ciﬁ  c presence make a difference? Only barely. But think of the alternative: people call a movement in favor of a good cause a failure. And if I can help prevent that, if I can be part 
of something rather than being separate from it, if I can put 
pressure where pressure is needed, then that makes it worth it. It’s better than nothing.
Jess Zalph is the opinion editor for Wesleyan University’s 
newspaper, the Wesleyan Argus. This column originally appeared on UWire. The importance of modern protestUWire
Jess Zalph
UWire8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
Gainesville Throwbacks
Jan. 27, 1967
UF considers a proposal to abolish curfews for senior girls 
and women older than 21, said Betty W. Cosby, Dean of Wom-en. The proposal originated in the Women’s Student Associa-tion, but the final decision is in the hands of the student affairs 
committee.
Jan. 28, 1974“... A nationwide ‘streaking’ fad takes hold at UF.”
About eight UF students tore their clothes off and streaked 
across campus in two separate incidents in the early morning. 
The streakers included three dorm residents and five brothers 
of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity.
Jan. 27, 1981“It should be quite a trial. Six months after Gainesville Po-
lice Officer Tim Good was shot in the shoulder, Charlie Lee 
Gunter today goes to trial charged with his attempted mur-
der. Moments after Good was wounded, he shot and killed Gainesville Police Officer Shannon Ray Stephenson, whom he 
mistook for his assailant.”
When the shooting happened, Gunter was on bail for re-
portedly shooting his sister in the leg in May 1980.
Jan. 27, 1998
A UF student died following a weeklong coma. Natasha 
Tackett, a UF photojournalism transfer student, died at Shands after getting in an accident while on her motorcycle. She was wearing a helmet and eye protection but was thrown off her 
bike after colliding with a Nissan. She purchased her bike just 
a week before the accident and picked it up just hours before the collision. She was survived by her two children.
Jan. 30, 2008A 2,900-pound dead baby whale was transported by trailer 
to the UF pathology unit in the College of Veterinary Medi-cine for an autopsy. The whale was a “right whale,” the most endangered type of whale in the world. The name comes from 
the whale-hunting expression “the right whale to kill.”Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Class Cramming Circle
A group of UF students enrolled in Anthropology of Sustainability discuss the answers to questions 
on a worksheet for class. One question was, “When you flush, where do the solids go?”
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A Jacked Up Pick-Up
Firefighters inspect two vehicles involved in a four-way collision Monday afternoon on West University Avenue near Bank of America. According to the owner of the pickup truck, the collision happened when one car rear-ended the car wedged underneath the pickup, which in turn hit the car in front of it.
NATION
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW ORLEANS (AP) — BP 
struggled for 87 days to contain 
the millions of gallons of crude oil that spilled into the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, but an expert witness on 
Monday called its cleanup re-
sponse exemplary.
“They were very prepared,” 
said Frank Paskewich, a retired Coast Guard captain and presi-dent of Clean Gulf Associates Inc., an oil spill response cooperative.
Paskewich also testified that 
37 percent of the spilled oil was 
recovered or broken down by 
skimmers, dispersants and burn-ing, compared to just 8 percent in the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster off Alaska’s shore.
But he was forced to acknowl-
edge that he isn’t sure about the 
long-term impact of the chemical 
dispersants used to break up the oil. And Justice Department attor-ney Brandon Robers noted that his cooperative is funded by oil com-panies and led in part by BP.
BP is trying to convince U.S. 
District Judge Carl Barbier that it shouldn’t pay the top civil penalty 
of $13.7 billion for polluting the 
gulf, since it has already spent $42 billion on cleanup, criminal penal-ties and civil settlements.
Last week, a government ac-
counting expert testified that the spill did not stop the company’s growth. 
The judge isn’t expected to 
rule until April at the earliest. He 
already found that BP acted with 
“gross negligence” in the explo-sion, which caused its Macondo well to send clouds of oil billow-ing to the surface. He also found that 3.19 million barrels of oil were spilled, with a maximum penalty of $4,300 per barrel.
In this latest phase of the trial, 
government experts have de-scribed environmental, economic and social damage, and BP has disputed much of that testimony, arguing the Gulf’s environment and economy came back strong.
BP fighting for lesser spill penalty 
Alligator File Photo
David Britt, dressed as the character Sweeney Todd, walks 
in a bloodmobile parked on the Reitz Union North Lawn in 2008. Britt traveled around the South dressed as pop-culture icons to recruit blood donors.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Andres Leiva / Alligator staff
Bayern bear
Berni the bear, Bayern Munich Football Club’s mascot, walks down Stadium Road alongside midﬁ  elder Dag-
ny Brynjarsdottir on Monday afternoon. FC Bayern defeated the UF women’s soccer team 4-0 Saturday night.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
GRAND ISLAND, Neb. — A 
Florida woman is suspected of 
drowning a 2-week-old puppy in a Nebraska airport bathroom so she could board a plane.
Grand Island Police Sgt. Stan 
Steele says 56-year-old Cynthia V. Anderson of Edgewater, Florida, was denied access to a ﬂ  ight Friday at the Central Ne-braska Regional Airport because the puppy was 
so young and 
not properly con-tained. Steele said 
she tried to con-ceal the Dober-
man in her carry-on bag.
He told The Grand Island Inde-pendent that Anderson was then seen entering a bathroom before another woman reported ﬁ  nding a dead Doberman puppy in the toilet.
Steele said the Central Nebraska 
Humane Society conducted an au-topsy. It determined the animal’s cause of death was drowning.
Anderson was arrested on ani-
mal abuse charges. She’s being held in the Hall County Jail.Fla. woman accused of drowning pupPAIGE LEVIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next week, students on a 
budget may be able to afford something more substantial than ramen noodles.
University Beyond will host 
the ﬁ  rst National Student Dis-count Day on Feb. 6 after post-poning it one week due to the harsh weather in the Northeast. More than 120 participating brands ranging from Pearson Education to Amazon will offer discounts to students entirely online.
“We just want attraction to 
our name so that students re-alize that these are companies that offer not only great deals, but also opportunities to work for them,” said Brendan Carter, head of business development at University Beyond.
University Beyond is a New 
York-based company run by recent college graduates that aims to foster connections be-tween students and profession-al organizations. 
In doing so, the company 
hopes to encourage networking and participation in campus ambassadorship programs.  
Students can ﬁ  nd a detailed 
explanation of all the deals of-fered on the National Student Discount Day Twitter account, @UBNSDD. After logging into the website with an .edu email address, students can click on a company logo to be redirected 
to the company’s site. The dis-
counts will automatically be applied at checkout, Carter said.  
The Twitter account con-
tinually shares promotions for brands such as Billabong, Spoti-fy and The Wall Street Journal.
Carter said he and his part-
ners hope to include 10 extra major brands — like Gap and Banana Republic — now that the event has grown so large.
“Now, going forward, we 
have the extra week to go after the big ﬁ  sh we had prior con-tact with,” he said.
Nat’l deal day will 
give students break
Anderson
Deals students can score on 
Feb. 6:
 Fifty percent off magazine     
   subscriptions from publica-
   tions like Glamour and GQ
 Discounted iHome products
 Textbook rentals from Book      
   Renter
 Eighty percent off New 
   Balance products Fifty percent off Spotify     
   Premium Fifteen weeks of The Wall   
   Street Journal for $15
 $25 off a ﬁ  rst Uber rideTUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-23BR. partially furnished. Right for man and wife on fixed income. No pets. In Old Town, FL 901-517-6202    1-28-5-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
SWIMMING POOL SERVICE ACCOUNTS, Lake City, FL. Asking $16,000 = 8 months grosse @ 10 hours work per week. Year-round accounts. Must sell, I have too much work. 386-590-3561    1-28-15-5-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 2-6-14-73-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, Energetic person.
Experience preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be available weekends.
Apply in person
Spyglass 701 SW 62nd Blvd
4-22-15-68-14
Fraternity Management Assistant.Work with Accounts Payable/Receivable, Handle Invoices, Attend Weekly Fraternity Meetings, etc. Must be dependable, knowl -
edgeable, and focused. Min of 10-15 hours a week. Email Resume to info@fratmgmt.com    1-28-15-6-14
Experienced breakfast cook sought by Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy. Apply in person.     1-28-15-5-14
Part Time Job at CITT on campus help with online courses 20 hrs/wk, $10/hr, flex schedule basic knowledge of: Windows, MS Office and Photoshop Will be assisting Faculty Please drop your resume at 2215 Turlington Hall    1-28-15-5-14
Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
ITC Defense seeking reliable student for 10 hrs/wk @ $8.05/hr. Great resume build -
er doing government contract research & social media strategy. Send resumes to: ITCStudent@ITCDefense.com    1-30-15-6-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart 
Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Write an essay on happiness.Win $500. No entry fee.humanhappinessfoundation.org(A Nonprofit Organization)    1-28-15-5-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Women’s golf finishes in third
The Florida women’s golf team finished in third place 
out of five teams at the Florida Challenge on Monday in Lecanto, Florida. Carlie Needles gave the UF women’s basketball team a much-needed boost this weekend. Read the story on Page 14.PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer@pinakk12
Florida’s softball team is deep.
Even after winning the program’s first national cham-
pionship last season and graduating pitcher Hannah 
Rogers and infielder Stephanie Tofft, the Gators don’t 
have many holes to fill.
Florida returns players such as junior infielder Kelsey 
Stewart, who set a UF single-season record with 102 hits 
last year as a sophomore, senior Lauren Haeger, who led 
the team with 20 home runs last year, and sophomore pitcher Delanie Gourley will look to improve on her freshman campaign in which she went 15-1 and tossed the program’s first postseason no-hitter.
But despite the vast amount of talent on Florida’s ros-
ter coach Tim Walton has at hand, he isn’t quite sure how he’s going to decide the lineups — so he asked the play-ers themselves.
“The other day after we scrimmaged, I had our play-
ers write out three different lineups,” Walton said.
Each lineup included Walton’s three possible starting 
pitchers for the season – Gourley, Haeger and freshman Aleshia Ocasio.
“I wanted them to see how hard it was to actually 
write in the lineup right now with the depth and the tal-ent we have,” Walton said. “Whether they wrote them-UF softball loaded with talent heading into 2015 season
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF softball coach Tim Walton looks down the field during Florida’s 7-6 win against Auburn on April 5 at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium. The Gators return all but two starters — pitcher Hannah Rogers and third baseman Stephanie Tofft — from their 2014 lineup that won UF’s first softball national championship in program history. 
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
After Florida opened up Southeast-
ern Conference play with three straight wins, Eli Carter thought the Gators were alright.
But once coach Billy Donovan got 
wind of this theory, he made it very clear to Carter that the Gators are far from where they need to be.
“This group is never alright,” Dono-
van said. “Never. Ever. Ever. They are not. They are alright when I can see them do it day in and day out and they really, really struggle in that area.”
That area is consistency, but Dono-
van will be the first to say the team’s struggles can often change from one day to the next with this group. 
And with Florida (10-9, 3-3 SEC) fac-ing off against Alabama (13-6, 3-3 SEC) tonight at 9 in Tuscaloosa, the Gators are 
still trying to find themselves.
Though Donovan and his team had 
not looked too closely at Alabama as of 
Monday morning, he said he expects the 
Crimson Tide to be a much deeper and 
more balanced team than the ones Flor-
ida has won its last nine games against.
“So much of their team last year went 
through (Trevor) Releford. He was a ter-
rific player for them. But (Jimmie) Taylor is a year older. (Ricky) Tarrant was sit-ting out a year. (Shannon) Hale is a year older. (Rodney) Cooper has been there. And obviously Levi Randolph is hav-ing a phenomenal year,” Donovan said. 
“They’ve gotten some good production 
from some young guys, but their veter-Troubled UF men’s basketball 
team to play ‘Bama tonightRECRUITING
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer@Morgan_Moriarty
Jim McElwain landed two more verbal 
commits from the recruiting trail on Mon-
day. 
McElwain flipped de-
fensive end Jabari Zuniga (6-foot-3, 265 pounds, 
Marietta, Georgia, Spray-berry High) from North Carolina State to Florida on Monday evening. 
Zuniga, a three-star 
defensive end, was ver-
bally committed to NC State since last No-vember. He visited UF the weekend of Jan. 
16 before taking a visit to Arkansas this past 
weekend. 
Florida’s 2015 class moves from the 
102nd ranked class to the 98th in the country following Zuniga’s commitment, according to Rivals.com. The Gators now have 10 ver-bal commitments in their 2015 class.
Wide receiver Rick Wells (6-foot-0, 187 
pounds, Jacksonville, Fla. Raines High) also 
verbally committed to Florida’s 2016 class 
late Monday. With Wells’ commitment, Florida’s 2016 class has a total of three mem-bers.
UF coaches visit Jefferson: Coach McEl-
wain along with new defensive coordinator Geoff Collins and defensive line coach Ter-rell Williams had an in-home visit with five-star defensive end Cece Jefferson (6-foot-2, 
245 pounds, Glen St. Mary, Florida, Baker 
County High) on Monday as well. 
Jefferson — the No. 2 strongside defen-
sive end in the country according to rivals.com — visited Auburn on the weekend of 
Jan. 16, and has a visit to LSU scheduled for 
this weekend — the last one before National Signing Day. DE Jabari Zuniga flips 
commitment to Florida“I wanted them to see how hard it was to 
actually write in the lineup right now with 
the depth and the talent we have.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 16
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16McElwain
Tweetable
“#ChompChompx2.” 
Jim McElwain (@CoachMcElwain)  
UF football coach
 THE REDSHIRT JUNIOR 
GUARD SCORED 16 POINTS.
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Three weeks of nothing but loss-
es can destroy a team’s confidence.
After the 
Gators women’s 
basketball team defeated Auburn on Jan. 4, the 
team lost four 
straight games before Sunday’s 
72-58 win over 
Arkansas at home. 
For arguably the first time in 
Southeastern Conference play, the Gators received strong play from their guards.  January Miller came 
off the bench to score a team-high-
tying 16 points on 50 percent shoot-ing. Cassie Peoples started the game on the bench, but ended up leading the team with four assists.
But it was the reemergence of 
redshirt junior Carlie Needles that seemed to fuel the team. 
Needles struggled with her shot 
in Florida’s first two SEC games — a loss to LSU and a win over Au-burn — and was seemingly hesitant to shoot the ball when she had the chance.
She then suffered a concussion 
in the Gators home loss to Ole Miss, and returned three games later in Florida’s blowout loss at the hands of No. 1 South Carolina. 
Without their starting point 
guard, the Gators had trouble run-
ning an efficient offense, and the 
losses piled up.So the team was understandably 
relieved when Needles played the way the team knows she can, as she scored a season-high-tying 16 points on Sunday to down the Razorbacks.
“I think the obvious things you 
think about when you don’t have Carlie on the floor, (you miss) her leadership, her spirit, her energy, 
her shooting and consistency,” But-
ler said. “But the intangibles I think are the things we really missed more than anything.”
Needles does things that often go unnoticed. 
She can be seen on the court 
urging her teammates to play with more fight and intensity. As the team’s point guard, she’s in charge 
of learning all of the plays and guid-
ing her teammates on the floor.
Often she’s the one directing 
the offense, ensuring that the play 
works out and Florida heads back 
down the court with added points on the board.
Needles is averaging 5.1 re-
bounds per game this season, sec-
ond on the team only to redshirt 
senior Kayla Lewis. Consider that Needles stands 5-foot-6, tied for shortest on the team with Cassie 
Peoples, and the stat gains value. 
Her eagerness to fight for every 
rebound against players often taller 
than her is part of the reason Nee-dles suffered the concussion, keep-
ing her out of Florida’s road losses 
to Kentucky and Missouri.
When the Gators seek re-
demption against Missouri with 
Thursday’s 7 p.m. matchup in the 
O’Connell Center, Needles will be out there on the court, hoping to du-plicate the success she had against Arkansas.
“Her being so clutch at the end 
of the (Arkansas game) was great for her approach and her individual confidence,” Butler said. “We’re just 
excited to have the opportunity to 
compete with Carlie on the floor.”14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Carlie Needles dribbles the ball down the court during Florida’s 77-42 loss to No. 1 South Carolina 
on Jan. 19 in the O’Connell Center.
Needles’ return gives Gators boost in win against Arkansas 
 FLORIDA HAD SIX DIFFERENT PLAY -
ERS SCORE ITS SINGLES POINTS.
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
Florida’s women’s tennis team got off to a 
positive start to its dual season. 
The No. 2 Gators played in their first match 
and tournament of the season last weekend.
The tournament resulted in a 4-0 victory 
against Elon on Saturday and a 4-0 victory 
over No. 68 Maryland on Sunday.
The win 
earned the Gators a spot in the 
ITA National Indoor Championship on Feb. 6 
through Feb. 9 in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Florida coach Roland Thornqvist was 
pleased with the performance made by his 
young team.
“As far as singles in concerned, we got 
three decided points on each match, ” Thorn-qvist said. “Those came from six different players and I’m hoping that is going to be a strength in this team to where we can plug in 
any of our eight players and get a point from 
anyone on any given day.”
So far, youth has yet to be a problem for the 
second ranked team. 
The only struggle Thornqvist has to worry 
about at this point is who will play next.
“I think our depth can be a great strength 
and I guess for me as a coach, selecting the six who are going to play everyday may be a little more complicated then I perhaps expected go-ing into the year,” the 14th-year coach said.
With only one upperclassman on the team 
in junior Brianna Morgan, Thornqvist expects 
Morgan to step up like she did in day two of 
the ITA tournament.
Playing on the No. 3 court against Mary-
land’s Ekaterina Tour, Morgan fell into a 4-1 
hole in the second set.
But the Beverly Hills, California, native 
rebounded to take a 6-4 win to complete the 
sweep and clinch the match.
“At the end of the match, that’s the kind 
of play we expect from (Morgan) and look, if we can get her to play at that level all the time then we’re going to be a very dangerous team,” Thornqvist said. “We need her to be 
consistent in her performance, she’s the oldest 
one on the team and I know our freshman look at her when they play a little bit.”
As the year progresses, so will Florida’s 
competition. 
Thornqvist believes that any amount of 
competition to roll their way will not be a problem for the Gators.
“I think our practices generally, we play 
points amongst ourselves we’re playing against some of the best players in the country everyday in practice,” Thornqvist said. “We’re not hitting and firing on all cylinders. … It’s the end of January and we have a long way to 
go to be perfect and what we need to be but I 
feel good about this team… Wednesday is just another day to get to where we need to be.”UF on a roll after weekend sweepsRECRUITING
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
Florida has landed its second 
commitment in as many days, this time a 2016 commitment in wide 
receiver Rick Wells. 
Wells (6-foot, 187 pounds, 
Raines High School, Jacksonville) 
is unranked on Rivals.com but 
should be added soon. He says his 
journey to Florida began months ago. 
“It started last fall when coach 
(Will) Muschamp was there they had offered me then and I was 
in the process of committing but 
there was a little controversy go-ing on with coach Muschamp so I was holding out on the commit-
ment,” Wells told alligatorSports 
Monday night. “So coach (Jim McElwain) got in and started com-ing by the school all last week and 
coach (Tim Skipper) came by to-
day and told me I had an offer and said he wanted me to be a Gator and all that.”
Wells finished his junior year 
at Jacksonville Raines High with 749 receiving yards and six touch-downs on 29 catches, according to MaxPreps.com.Wells said he was told by McEl-
wain that he could come in imme-diately and play as a freshman.
Upon learning of his commit-
ment, UF’s new head coach was 
“very excited,” Wells said. McEl-
wain has plans to make him an edge receiver and told Wells he would fit nicely in the new pro-style offensive system he’s trying 
to put in place.
McElwain isn’t the only coach 
on the new staff to endear himself 
to Wells. Wells sees Skipper as a 
personable guy that’s easy to get 
along with.
“I mean he’s a really cool per-
son,” he said. “I mean you can open up to him, tell him what you 
like, he’s gonna keep it real with 
you, he’s a cool person.”
Wells is not shutting the re-
cruiting process down. He said 
he will visit North Carolina and 
Wake Forest for junior days later this spring and also plans to come to Gainesville for a visit sometime in February.
Wells is the third oral commit-
ment in UF’s 2016 class.
He joins three-star defensive 
back Tre Jackson and four-star ath-
lete Tyler Byrd.Wells’ path to Florida 
started months agoButler
UF W omen’s T ennis THE GATORS HAVE DROPPED 
THREE STRAIGHT SEC GAMES.
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
Billy Donovan is not one to sugarcoat 
anything. 
He would probably say he doesn’t pay 
attention to such things, but the fact is, 
Florida is ranked 82nd in RPI and is 0-7 vs. RPI top-50 teams and 1-8 vs. RPI top-100 teams. 
Donovan might not know the numbers, 
but he does know his team isn’t in good NCAA tournament shape.
“I’m not going to be one of these guys 
who’s going to be this optimist and say, ‘Oh yeah.’ I have to go off of what I’m 
dealing with today,” Donovan said. 
“We’ve shown no signs of consistency. 
Now, we’re working on those things, but I haven’t seen any signs that makes me say, 
‘Yeah, we’re OK, we’re OK.’ We’re not OK.”
While the Gators are struggling, it’s not 
because of internal strife or character is-
sues. 
It’s consistently about his players ap-
plying what they are coached onto the 
floor when the lights come on. 
They get it — Donovan knows they 
do — but he said things get lost in-game when things speed up.
“If this was an attitude or behavioral is-sue, I’d be a lot more disappointed,” Don-ovan said. 
“It’s not that at all. It’s the consistency 
of being able to do it night in and night out 
for 40 minutes, practice in and practice out for 40 minutes.”
Frazier faithful to Hill: Kasey Hill bore 
the brunt of quite a bit of Florida fan frus-
tration Saturday night when he failed to 
get a shot off as time expired and Florida fell to Ole Miss 72-71. 
Hill raced the length of the court but 
instead of pulling up for a jumpshot, he 
drove deep into the lane in order to try 
and get a layup. 
While Hill’s drive may have cost Flor-
ida the game, junior shooting guard Mi-
chael Frazier saw things differently.
“I don’t think we would have had 
enough time anyway for him to pass it, so I think he made the right play by trying to get a shot off at the basket,” Frazier said. 
“Unfortunately the time expired.”
Gators lamenting lack of listening:  
Donovan could just stand up in team 
meetings and say “I told you so,” because he did, multiple times. 
He told his team this year would be 
tough, that it would be difficult to repli-cate anything close to last year’s level of success, but his team didn’t listen
And now at 10-9, they wish they would 
have.
“Coach told us before the year what we 
had to do. Me included, we didn’t really listen to him,” Frazier said. “We are where 
we are right now because we chose not to 
listen to him, and the only thing we can do is move forward.”GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
If Rhonda Faehn were evalu-
ating the contents of a glass half-
filled with water, she would like-ly point out that the water vapor in the air-filled half means the glass is more than half-full.
In other words, Faehn is an 
positive person, and she’s choos-ing to use that glass-half-full at-
titude when it comes to her gym-
nastics team.
Then-No. 1 Florida (2-1, 1-1 
Southeastern Conference) suf-fered its first loss of the season Friday night at then-No. 7 Ala-bama (2-1, 1-1 SEC), a defeat brought on by numerous errors and an overall timidness from Faehn’s perspective.
Faehn was 
frustrated after the loss, but on 
Monday she stressed the positives the team can take away from an otherwise nega-
tive situation.
“I just felt that this is some-
thing that we need to look back, watch our video footage and rec-ognize that it’s just one step.” she said. “It’s one competition in a string of many competitions to be able to grow from and to learn from so we can perform better.”
Competing in the atmosphere 
at Alabama was the most impor-tant part of the meet for Faehn, win or lose, and she said the team needed to get used to handling 
the pressure in that type of envi-
ronment.
One such example was Flori-
da’s beam routine during its final rotation.
With the Gators needing a 
number of high scores to keep 
any hope of a win alive, freshman 
Kennedy Baker led off the lineup with a fall — something Faehn 
said she has never seen from the 
freshman.
But even though the rest of 
the team’s beam scores were not 
enough to challenge for the win, 
Faehn was impressed with how 
all five gymnasts who followed 
Baker were able to handle the pressure of knowing the team couldn’t afford another big mis-
take.
“They responded well,” Faehn 
said. 
“Again, it is a learning pro-
cess, we have three freshmen up in that lineup with Bridget 
(Sloan) being injured.”
Sloan’s injury is another nega-
tive situation which Faehn has 
used in a positive way. 
Sloan has been out since Flor-
ida’s season-opener against Ball State, but Friday was the first time the Gators competed with-out her present at a competition — the junior stayed in Gainesville to continue rehabbing her ankle.
Faehn has taken that void and given younger gymnasts the op-portunity to become leaders on the team, and they have respond-
ed.
“(Sophomore) Claire Boyce 
has really stepped up, not only 
gymnastically but also leader-ship-wise,” she said. “I really also 
feel that a couple of our freshman 
are really stepping up.”The trick now for the Gators 
will be taking what they have learned from the Alabama meet 
and using it in their prepara-
tion for this week’s meet against 
Georgia and other difficult com-
petitions ahead.
“I would love to see this week 
just really, again, great, aggres-sive training and really focusing in on not focusing in on the things they can’t control and things on the outside,” Faehn said.
“When times are challenging 
with injuries and different line-
ups, they have to just trust one 
another and really trust that their talent level and that their training 
they’ve put in so far will produce 
great results.”
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs on the balance beam during Florida’s 197.20-195.65 win against Auburn on Jan. 16 in the O’Connell Center. Baker fell in UF’s loss to Alabama on Friday.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida shooting guard Michael Frazier II passes the ball during Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Jan. 10 in the O’Connell Center.
GYMNASTICSFaehn looking at UF gymnastics with glass-half-full mentality
Notebook: Florida’s struggles not due to internal conflictFaehn
“We are where we are right now 
because we chose not to listen to 
him, and the only thing we can do is 
move forward.”
Michael Frazier II
UF shooting guard16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2015
Florida in jeopardy of losing to Alabama for first time since 2008
an guys have gotten better.”
The Crimson Tide will be led 
by Donovan’s former assistant 
coach Anthony Grant, who is in his sixth season at Alabama. 
Donovan has only sustained 
two losses in the 16 times he’s coached against former assistant coaches.
With two seniors, two sopho-
mores and a junior projected as starters against Florida, the Crimson Tide has some flexibility and versatility stacked into its ex-perienced roster.
Florida hasn’t lost to Alabama 
since the 2008 SEC tournament, but Donovan isn’t ruling out any possibilities for tonight.
When the Gators faced and de-
feated Alabama twice last year, Florida was working with a much deeper roster that could cover up its younger players’ weaknesses and inconsistencies. Now those are all laid out on the table, ex-posed for the world to see. So while some may be surprised by Florida’s recent downward tra-jectory, Donovan is not.
“You know when you have 
some of those guys back and you see some of the inconsistencies that are totally covered up be-cause of some really experienced 
senior veteran guys, that’s what 
people missed on our team going 
into this season,” Donovan said of Florida’s returning players. “So to me probably my frustra-tion level with them is not high 
because I’m not surprised by any 
of this.”
HOOPS , from page 13
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn on Jan. 15 in the O’Connell 
Center. The Gators are 3-3 in SEC play heading into tonight’s game against Alabama. 
Game Info
 Location: Coleman      Coliseum (Tuscaloosa,  
   Alabama)
 Tipoff: 9 p.m. TV: ESPN Series Record: 
  Alabama leads 73-64
Junior Taylore Fuller to replace Stephanie Tofft at third base
selves in the lineup or whether they wrote themselves out of 
the lineup, that’s gonna be the biggest key for our team is really defining the character of our team, being honest with one an-
other and being honest with themselves.”
The team does have question marks, though. 
The Gators will look to replace the consistent production 
they received from Rogers, who finished the season 30-8 and 
won the 2014 Southeastern Conference Female Athlete of the 
Year Award. 
Although Walton said he didn’t consider Rogers the ace of 
the staff last year, he said it would be very difficult to replace her.
“When I wrote her name in the lineup, I expected her to go 
out and give us seven innings and we weren’t gonna have to go to anybody else,” he said. “So it’s gonna change my philosophy 
or at least my feelings in regards to writing in Aleshia Ocasio 
as a freshman or writing in Delanie Gourley as a sophomore. How many complete games has Lauren Haeger thrown in her career? You know, those kind of things.”
The other question mark is the void left by Tofft, whose .356 
average was second best on the team. Tofft also slugged 11 home runs and knocked in 65 RBI while manning third base. 
With Tofft gone, Walton said he’s looking to junior Taylore 
Fuller to step in and fill her spot at the hot corner.Replacing Tofft won’t be easy. She and Stewart were the 
only players to start all 67 games last season. Fuller played in 51 of those games and started 35, with most of her appearances coming in the outfield and at catcher.
 While Fuller hit .242 last year, well below Tofft’s line, she 
slugged 10 home runs in only 95 at-bats – a ratio that was best on the team last year.
“Taylore played a lot more her freshman year than she did 
her sophomore year, especially down the stretch.” He said. “So 
I think she’s gonna handle it fine. I think the main key is figur-
ing out where we’re gonna play her. Are we gonna play her at third base and bat her fifth? Or are we gonna play her at third base and bat her eighth?”SOFTBALL , from page 13