We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 19 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
Check out our sports section
Highlights include a preview for Flor-
ida football’s road game against Ken-tucky, a cross country feature and a recap of Florida volleyball’s home win, pgs. 13-16.SISTER CITIES
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
The water fountains in Nor-
man Hall’s east wing are tempo-
rarily closed.
“Out of Order,” the papers 
taped above and on the foun-
tains read. “Water unsafe to 
drink.”
Thursday morning, the UF 
College of Education received a report saying the water in the water fountains on the ﬁ  rst and ground ﬂ  oors of Norman Hall’s east wing contained a sediment and was unsafe to drink, said 
Larry Lansford, UF College of 
Education’s director of com-munications.  The water in the sinks is still safe to use.
The college called UF Physi-
cal Plant immediately. Today, they will test the water and work to ﬁ  x the problem, he said. Lansford said that Norman Hall 
is going through renovations, 
and plumbing is a part of that.
“This is more evidence of 
the renovations sorely needed at Norman Hall,” he said.
UF elementary education 
junior Amanda Russo she has taken classes in Norman Hall the entire time she has been at 
UF. The 20-year-old said that be-
cause Norman is an older build-ing, “It’s expected that all these things happen.” 
When she went to class 
Thursday morning, she said she didn’t see the signs. One of her friends messaged her about the water.
“It’s just something we need 
to be aware of,” she said.  Norman fountain 
water contaminated
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
A water fountain in the east wing of Norman Hall is marked 
as out of order on Thursday. Water in some parts of the building was deemed unsafe to drink.
The journey for peace
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Inside Steve Kalishman’s ofﬁ  ce, be-
hind a mirrored door and down a nar-
row hallway in Haile Village Center, shelves and walls are decorated with ornaments and gifts from Palestine, Is-
rael, Tajikistan and lands beyond.
A painting behind his chair depicts 
three white doves — circled by U.S., Is-
raeli and Palestinian ﬂ  ags — connected by their wings and surrounding Earth.
A Jewish man, Kalishman said he 
loves Israel and wants to see her suc-ceed. He said he also wants to see a Palestinian state. More importantly, 
though, he wants to ﬁ  nd a solution to 
the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict.
“I feel like for whatever reason — 
destiny, fate, something — I’ve been put in a position where I can actually make a difference there, and I feel an obligation to do that,” Kalishman said. “This is what I’m suppose to do.”
It’s critical, the 61-year-old 
Gainesville resident said; for the sake of Israel, for Palestine, for the Middle East and, most of all, for the world.As president of the Gainesville Sister 
City Program, he’s not just dreaming about it — he’s making it a reality, one step at a time.
      
On Sept. 3, City Commissioners ap-
proved Kalishman’s request to estab-lish sister city relations with Deir Alla, 
Jordan, making Gainesville the only 
U.S. city with sister cities in Jordan, Palestine and Israel.
Khalifeh Ad-Dayyat, mayor of Deir 
Alla, wrote in an email that he’s excited about the program.
“I think the people of both commu-
nities can help each other,” Ad-Dayyat said. 
The Jordan River suffers from det-
rimental pollution and contamination, causing health problems and argument over who’s to blame for the issues. Eco-Peace Middle East, a nongovernmental organization, is leading a project to restore the river, bringing together Jor-danians, Palestinians and Israelis in the process.
Gainesville’s partnership with the 
NGO and Deir Alla opens the door for 
Americans to be involved too, both in ﬁ  nding a solution to the river problem 
and a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict.
Finding solutions to both problems 
hasn’t been easy, though. Decades of hostility between the three countries have led to deep mistrust among the people, making cooperation difﬁ  cult.
“Challenge is our middle name,” 
said EcoPeace Middle East Amman, Jordan, Ofﬁ  ce Deputy Director Yana Abu Taleb. “Everything we do is chal-lenging.”
Abu Taleb said despite promises 
brought by peace treaties signed be-tween Israel, Palestine and Jordan in 1994 and 1995, there is still tension and mistrust among the people.
“A few years following the peace 
treaty, people were set back that noth-ing is happening,” she said. “And we as an organization were founded anyways 
to be kind of the watchdogs for all the 
promises of peace and the development it was going to bring.”
But, she said, the organization’s fo-
cus on water and environmental issues has started to bring people together.
“Through this dialogue that they 
have, they found out that they will beneﬁ  t together from this cooperation,” 
she said.GNV looks to Middle East
SEE SISTER CITIES,  PAGE 4
Steve Kalishman, president of the Sister City Program of 
Gainesville, Inc., talks about how the program can help solve the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict in his ofﬁ  ce in Haile Village Center on Tuesday. “We can be a bridge, and we can bring about change through relationships — real, lasting relationships, ” Kalishman said. 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gallery Talk: Art of Resistance
Visit the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art on Saturday at 1 p.m. for a Gallery Talk by Kerry Oliver-Smith, curator of contemporary 
art. He will focus on revolution 
and resistance in art practice, highlighting the work of con-temporary artists from Chile, Venezuela and Cuba in the cur-rent exhibition, “Contesting Terrain,” and extend the discus-sion to works by artists in other parts of the world. Admission 
and parking are free on the week-ends. More information can be 
found at harn.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
The correction in Thursday’s Alligator said admission is $9 for students. Admission to the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History is free to UF students with 
a valid Gator 1 card.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 19
HIGH  82° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
In May, Trisha Seppey was looking 
for a different kind of study-abroad 
experience.
An aspiring veterinarian studying 
at Santa Fe College, Seppey scoured the Internet for a program that would not only let her experience another country, but also allow her to reach out to animals.
Within two months, Seppey, 23, 
was on a plane to Thailand with 10 other students, prepared to assist in-jured elephants and dogs.
“I would definitely do it again if I 
had the chance,” Seppey said. “It was an amazing experience.”
With National Elephant Apprecia-
tion Day coming up Tuesday, Seppey said she hopes people will take the time to focus on the plight of ele-phants and other animals.
“It’s a good thing for everyone to 
be aware of what’s going on in the world,” she said.
As part of the program, called Loop 
Abroad, Seppey, now a Santa Fe ju-nior, spent a week at a dog shelter and a second week at an elephant shelter. She cleaned habitats and fed animals while also helping the facilities’ veteri-narians tend to injured animals.
“It was a huge eye-opener,” Seppey 
said, remembering elephants that had lost limbs to land mines hidden on farmland to prevent trespassers.
During the second week, Seppey 
and the others were split into pairs and assigned an elephant for the day. She was paired with McKayla Peterson, an animal and veterinary sciences junior from the University of Wyoming.Peterson said they were respon-
sible for monitoring the habits of Mae Thai, a 70-year-old Asian elephant, 
and taking care of her.
“We got to feed her bananas all 
day,” Peterson, 21, said. “That was 
her favorite.”
Despite being able to bond with the 
elephants, students were also exposed to the darker sides of elephant life in 
Thailand.
Peterson said five minutes away 
from the elephant sanctuary was a camp that offered elephant rides to 
tourists.
At the end of the trip, when the 
group took a bus to the airport, she said they saw a man sitting on an el-ephant’s bloodied head while a couple 
enjoyed the ride from the backseat.
“That was really horrible to see,” 
she said. “I think people should edu-cate themselves and learn about what 
really happens behind the scenes.”
Bonnie Breitbeil, an adjunct pro-
fessor at Santa Fe’s teaching zoo, said 
the brutality Seppey and Peterson wit-
nessed is a reason National Elephant 
Appreciation Day should serve as a 
time for reflection.
She will donate to the 96 Elephants 
campaign, which promotes the ban-
ning of the ivory trade, she said.
“Ninety-six African elephants are 
killed on a daily basis,” she said. “It’s a huge epidemic.”FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
HOMECOMING EDITION 2015
Kick off a season of GREAT BUSINESS
Call your sales rep today!  352-376-4482
Courtesy to the Alligator
Trisha Seppey, a 23-year-old Santa Fe veterinarian junior, poses with elephants at the El -
ephant Nature Park in northern Thailand during her study abroad trip. Seppey chose the 
program, Loop Abroad, because she could help injured animals such as elephants and dogs.
Santa Fe students help injured elephants
By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
This weekend, visitors can appreciate elephants up 
close and personal.
With National Elephant Appreciation Day on Tuesday, 
the Two Tails Ranch will host its annual Elephant Appreci-
ation Day Fundraiser on Saturday and Sunday for a fourth 
consecutive year. The ranch, located at 18655 NE 81st St. 
in Williston, will host horse and camel rides, face painting and talks about elephants.
“Elephant Appreciation Day was actually founded by 
someone who lived here in Florida, who had a great love for elephants and thought that there should be a day dedi-cated to elephants,” said Patricia Zerbini, owner of Two Tails Ranch. “It has actually grown so wide that all of the zoos and elephant facilities celebrate it throughout the country.”
This is the first year that the event will include talks 
about different animals, including reptiles and big cats, 
Zerbini said. This is also the first year the event will be 
held for two days instead of just one, hosting visitors from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day.
“It’s really nice to see so many people enjoying all of the 
animals that we have here. The support that we get from it is phenomenal,” Zerbini said.
Zerbini said all of the funds will go to the elephant-care 
program at the ranch. She said they hope to exceed last year’s amount, which almost reached $10,000.
“It’s a good weekend for the event because there’s no 
football games here, so I think that people who are looking for things to do would go; I would go,” said Ellie Cobb, a UF mechanical engineering junior. 
“I feel like a lot of people don’t know that the ranch 
exists so close to Gainesville, but I think that it’s a really good idea to have the event,” the 20-year-old said. GNV to celebrate Na-
tional Elephant DayStomp the Yard
“It’s really nice to see so many people enjoying all of 
the animals that we have here. The support that we get 
from it is phenomenal.”
Patricia Zerbini
Owner of Two T ails Ranch4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
UF RESEARCHERS FOUND
 A HORMONE THAT 
RESPONDS TO STRESS.
By Nicole LaReau
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students stressed over their next exam 
have another thing to worry about:  It 
could have a long-term impact on their 
health.
Recent UF research found a possible 
link between stress and Alzheimer’s dis-
ease, which is an advanced form of mem-
ory loss, said Dr. Todd Golde, who con-
ducted the research and is the director of the UF Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease.
The researchers found a hormone re-
leased in response to stress causes a pro-tein known as amyloid beta to form, Golde said.  
When the protein builds up, it creates a 
plaque in the brain, which can cause brain degeneration leading to Alzheimer’s.  
Golde conducted the research with 
Seong-Hun Kim, a psychiatrist in Seattle; Hyo-Jin Park, an assistant scientist in the 
UF College of Medicine’s department of 
aging and geriatric research; and Kevin Felsenstein, an associate professor of neu-roscience in UF’s College of Medicine.Golde said the exact causes of Alzheim-
er’s have been unclear for a long time.
“This research provided a molecular 
link that suggests there is a plausible con-nection between stress and Alzheimer’s 
disease,” Golde said.
UF advertising senior Isrrael Pena said 
he is stressed because he’s trying to bal-
ance responsibilities: Hispanic Heritage Month, classes and other extracurricular 
activities.
“I think overall everyone should man-
age their stress,” the 22-year-old said, ex-
plaining that stress isn’t good for students’ health.
Golde said he thinks it’s important for 
all ages to be healthy, which can mitigate stress.  
To be healthy, he recommends that 
people exercise and socially engage with 
others.
“We should all take time to do things in 
life that make us happy,” said Golde.Don’t stress: It may be 
linked to Alzheimer’s
“Along the years, this is the real 
peace on (the) ground because it has 
to be among the people.”
      
Kalishman’s plan for a solution to 
the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict traces back to a trip he took to the region in 2011. He was joined by Gainesville city ofﬁ  cials, residents and a Los An-
geles-based hip-hop group called the 
Luminaries, which tagged along after Kalishman asked for permission to use one of its songs in a documentary about the program.
For some on the trip, it was their 
ﬁ  rst time visiting the region. 
The trip began with a visit to the 
Palestinian prime minister, then sev-
en mayors, three governors and three 
university presidents. When they weren’t in heavy political meetings, they were playing soccer with kids or talking to farmers, businessmen and other ordinary people.
Most people — Palestinians and 
Israelis alike — told them they were tired of the war and wanted peace.
“I really saw in the eyes of the 
youth that they were ready for this change,” said Luminaries member Chris Devcich. “They told us over and over again, ‘We don’t hate these people. We want to know these peo-ple.’”
One of the most memorable ex-
periences of the trip came during a 
hip-hop performance in Qalqilya, a 
conservative Muslim-Palestinian city in the West Bank.The Luminaries performed at City 
Hall, and as fate would have it, a Pal-estinian youth group named the X Games Team was also in the city. The 
X Games Team members were the 
city outcasts, the kids with strange haircuts, tattoos and piercings who also skateboarded, beatboxed and did parkour. With its harsh political message about occupation and op-pression, Kalishman said the X Games’ music was a stark contrast to the Luminaries’ performance.
“So these kids, they’re ready to 
walk out the door,” Kalishman said. “They don’t want to hear anything about peace or love.”
“It’s the hip-hop of resistance.”But right before the group left, the 
Luminaries reached out and invited them to perform on stage.
Everyone loved the performance, 
Kalishman said. It got better when the Luminaries joined in, suddenly bridging the gap between two worlds.
“The parents of these kids for 
the ﬁ  rst time realized that it’s OK for their kids to do hip-hop. It’s better for them to express their emotions through their music than it is through other means,” Kalishman said. 
It was a prime example of what 
he and others hope to accomplish through the Sister City Program. In a country divided by walls, Kalishman said bridges have to be built.
When Devcich returned to L.A., 
he had a new outlook on the conﬂ  ict 
between Israelis and Palestinians.
“It’s one thing to hear about sui-
cide bombs in Israel or the atrocities and horrendous conditions that Pal-estinian people have to live under,” Devcich said. “It’s another thing to go ﬁ  rst hand and see those condi-tions and talk to people who lost rela-tives to some sort of act of violence.”
That change in views is exactly 
what Kalishman hopes to achieve.
“You say the word ‘Palestine’ or 
‘Palestinians’ in the U.S., what’s the 
ﬁ  rst word that comes to Americans’ 
mind? ‘Terrorists,’” Kalishman said. 
“How do you ﬁ  x that?”
Kalishman hopes to send more 
Americans to the region to see what the conﬂ  ict is really like and who the 
people living there are.
“The magic of the Sister City Pro-
gram is direct interaction with people, either here or there or somewhere 
else,” Kalishman said. “Just getting 
people together, it just builds bonds of friendship and trust, and then you just don’t see things the same way.”
So far, putting aside the politics 
has worked.
“I think the trick for us has been… 
we never talk politics,” said Oak Hall Fine Arts Chairman Robert Ponzio, 
who also went on the trip. “We just 
deal with culture and friendship and 
being people.”
From there, change can begin to 
happen. Gainesville can’t solve the conﬂ  ict alone — it’ll need the help 
from other U.S. cities — but it’s a 
start, a step in the right direction, Ka-
lishman said.
“Everybody wants (peace),” he 
said. “But nobody can imagine it happening. So somebody’s got to 
make it happen.”
SISTER CITIES,  from pg1Music brought the cultures together
Courtesy to the Alligator
Khalifeh Ad-Dayyat (left), Mayor of Deir Alla, Jordan, poses with 
Gainesville Sister City Program President Steve Kalishman. Gaines-ville’s City Commission recently approved Kalishman’s request to establish sister city relations with Deir Alla.
BRAINS!
Devin Franklin (right), a 21-year-old Santa Fe sociology junior, hides from a zombie attack in a bush on Thursday during the ﬁ  rst Fall mini-mission of UF Humans vs. Zombies. Franklin says his favorite part about the mission is being able to shoot zombies in the head.
Alexandria Dris / Alligator “This research provided a molecular 
link that suggests there is a plausible 
connection between stress and 
Alzheimer’s disease.”
Dr. T odd Golde
researcherFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015    ALLIGATOR   5 
THE WEED CAN BE FATAL
 TO HORSES.
By Chelsea Stromfeld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Horses in Alachua County are in increasing 
danger all because of a weed.
Veterinarians across the county have re-
ported an increased number of horses af-
fected by creeping indigo, a hairy weed with 
pink flowers. If horses continuously consume 
the plant, it could be fatal.  The toxicity of the plant takes a significant toll, said Dr. Robert 
MacKay, a professor at the UF College of Vet-erinary Medicine’s department of large animal clinical sciences.
“It’s not a big epidemic of horses dying ev-
ery year,” he said. “But when horses are af-
fected, it’s very serious because at least half of them die — and not in a comfortable way for that matter.”
The horses affected undergo weight loss, 
loss of consciousness, head pressing into cor-ners, seizures and gum ulcers, McKay said.
“We haven’t found out how widespread 
this problem is,” he said. “We know it’s getting worse, but that’s a very general understanding. Statewide, I’d say we’re talking about 20 or so horses a year.”The creeping indigo toxicity might be diag-
nosed more now because there is an increased awareness of it, said Rhiana McFarlin, a vet at Peterson and Smith Equine Hospital in Ocala.
She said the toxicity is rarer than people are 
making it out to be.
“Most horses won’t eat this plant unless they are not given other grasses or hay to eat,” 
she said. 
Abby Freund, 19, a UF animal sciences 
sophomore, said she has been a horse owner 
for seven years and has never heard about the creeping indigo toxicity.
“I’m not super knowledgeable, but being 
around horses for so long I’ve learned a lot,” Freund said.
The goal moving forward is to eliminate it 
completely, MacKay said.
“Steps are being taken to educate people,” 
he said. “There used to be a lot of cases that went undiagnosed as recently as five years ago. That doesn’t happen anymore.”UF veterinarians seek end to toxic weed horses eat
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Fun in the Sun 
Siddhesh Nagvekar (left), a 23-year-old UF computer engineering 
master’s student, kicks a beach ball away from Ashwin Neelakan-tan, a 22-year-old computer science master’s student, outside the University Auditorium on Thursday. The students picked up the beach ball at the Peace Corps table after their lunch, and they de-cided to play a soccer game between classes.By Rebecca Moonitz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Organizations that teach sexual-
assault safety have seen an increase 
in student registration for their pro-
grams in the Fall term rather than 
in Spring.  
In both Fall 2013 and Fall 2014, 
more students participated in UPD’s 
Rape Aggression Defense class than 
in the Spring terms of those school years, according to R.A.D. program coordinator Christina Lamb’s re-port. 
In Fall 2013, 172 students were 
registered for R.A.D., 155 for Spring 2014, 254 for Fall 2014 and 127 for Spring 2015, according to UPD’s 
R.A.D. report.
In Fall semesters, freshmen are 
asking more questions about how to stay safe on campus because it’s 
a new environment for them, said Wayne Clark, UPD officer in the community service division and 
public information officer. 
Last Fall, Clark said more stu-
dents signed up for self-defense 
classes because of the string of on-campus assaults.
“Of course last year, with the 
guy running around trying to attack 
women, that definitely got people’s 
attention,” he said.
And this Fall, students like UF 
criminology and anthropology se-
nior Lesley Jackson decided to par-ticipate in a self-defense class after 
receiving several UF Alerts.
Jackson, 21, is a member of Zeta 
Phi Beta sorority, which hosted a 
co-ed self-defense class with Sigma 
Beta Rho fraternity.
She said she was working with a 
sorority chapter member when she 
received UF armed-robbery alerts.
“They were encroaching on 
where we were working by our-
selves, and we just realized that we need to be protected,” Jackson said.
She said the sorority contacted 
UPD and asked them to help with the sorority’s “What Would You 
Do?” self-defense class, which was 
held Wednesday.
This month, GatorWell will host 
the Yes Means Yes seminar for the 
third time at UF.  It promotes dis-
cussions on consent and positive sexuality, said Rita Lawrence, inter-personal violence prevention coor-dinator for GatorWell and student 
counselor for Yes Means Yes.
The Yes Means Yes seminar 
aims to change the conversation on 
consent to focus on the word “yes,” 
rather than the lack of  “no,” she 
said.
The program begins Sept. 29 
and will meet every Tuesday until Oct. 27 in Graham Gallery.
UF animal sciences freshman 
Sofia Calderon, 18, said she signed up for R.A.D classes after it was advertised during her Preview ses-sion. Her parents encouraged her to do so, she said.
“It was a mutual agreement that 
it would be best for me to sign up,” Calderon said.
For the second Fall, Gator Wes-
ley Foundation hosted SCREAM Theater, which stands for Students 
Challenging Realities and Educat-
ing Against Myths, on Sunday at the Gator Wesley Foundation, said Narcie Jeter, Gator Wesley Founda-
tion executive director and campus 
pastor.
The foundation will continue to 
host the event during future Fall terms, she said.
“Freshmen girls are the most 
vulnerable between now and Thanksgiving break,” Jeter said. Safety programs see an increase
Gators Learn 
Sexual-Assault Safety
Rape Aggression Defense 
Ongoing Class
Students Challenging 
Realities and Educating 
Against Myths 
 September 13
What Would You Do? 
September 16
Yes Means Yes 
Sept. 29 - Oct. 27Higher registrations in Fall“W e know it’s getting worse, but 
that’s a very general understanding. 
Statewide, I’d say we’re talking about 
20 or so horses a year.”
Dr. Robert MacKay
UF College of Veterinary Medicine professorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Another day, another dollar. Another week… another 
ﬁ  ve dollars? Ignoring our poor excuse for an intro, it’s time 
for this week’s edition of… 
Darts and Laurels
On Wednesday night, CNN hosted the second GOP de-
bate. Even if you didn’t watch it, you certainly heard about it. Even as CNN helped to reduce an already inane event to 
even lower levels (shout out to Rand “Justice Never Sleeps” 
Paul for being strangely bold in his lack of self-awareness), there was one moment that stood out among the rest.
When it came time for the candidates to address canna-
bis legislation, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush admitted that forty years ago, he smoked marijuana.
“I’m sure that other people might have done it and may 
not want to say it in front of 25 million people,” Bush said. “My mom’s not happy that I just did.”
Bush’s brave revelation sent shockwaves throughout the 
nation; after all, this is the same man who penned a written statement to discourage Florida voters from voting in favor of last year’s medical marijuana amendment. 
It took a lot for Bush to admit to being a total hypocrite 
on the national stage, and for that we give him a green, 
sticky-icky Laurel.
After Saturday’s mini-monsoon dissipated, Gainesville 
was lucky enough to be gifted with pleasant weather for a 
change. 
This week has seen temperatures in the low to mid-70s, 
as well as a nice breeze that’s more than made up for when-
ever the temperature would creep back into the 80s. 
It was nice to actually experience fall for a change, rath-
er than continuing to deal with the staggering, unrelenting corpse of Florida summer humidity.
But all good things must come to an end, and unfortu-
nately, nearly every night this week has been plagued with 
muggy, moist rainfall. 
For raining on our parade, we award a Dart to weather 
fronts, jet streams and air masses for being selﬁ  sh and 
thoughtless in how they go about their business as climate 
factors.
For the last week, the Internet has been abuzz with ru-
mors that rappers Drake and Future would be releasing a 
collaborative mixtape, titled either “FBGOVO” or “Put It All In a Plastic Bag” depending on who you ask. 
Drake, Future and their cohorts are more than aware of 
the rumors surrounding the project and have been content to string music fans along, tweeting cryptic references to the project and Instagramming photos with one another. 
There’s even a countdown timer on putitallinaplasticbag.
com, which is set to expire at 11 p.m. tonight. 
As of writing, no one has conﬁ  rmed or denied the verac-
ity of the timer.
Drake and Future simply can’t keep toying with our emo-
tions like this; 2015 has already been an abundant year for hip-hop, and the tease of a collaboration between the two artists is simply too enticing for the world to just sit pa-tiently and wonder exactly what is going on. 
In the event that they drop an album this weekend and 
it’s a banger, Drake and Future get a purple, lean-dipped 
Laurel. If, however, this mythical mixtape proves to be just that, a myth, Drake and Future get a disappointed, mean-
mugging Dart.Not all is as it seems with the new Impact Party 
It’s that time of the semester again. 
This Fall’s Student Government elections 
are approaching, and — at least for me — 
paranoia is running high. 
SG appears to be a model of the unhealthy, 
dysfunctional two-party system we’re all accus-tomed to. If anything, the existence of a new, third party whose supposed aim is to overcome the deadlock and “unite” the two parties is the weird-est thing about it. But that new party is exactly what’s creeping me out. 
Impact Party, as it’s called, sounds cool. No one likes 
deadlock. But forgive me if I’m skeptical. 
For those of you who are new here or unaware of how 
things work, UF SG was effectively run as a single-party dic-tatorship for most of its history. Indeed, from 1999 until Ac-cess Party’s victory last Spring, SG was controlled by a single, shadowy coalition commonly known as “the System.”
The System is a coalition of the most powerful members 
of the most powerful organizations on this campus: Florida Blue Key, the Greek houses, and (until last Spring) multicul-tural associations like Black Student Union, Hispanic Student Association and the Asian American Student Union (the 
“communities”). The way it worked was this: well-connected 
members of these organizations would broker power among one another. Deals between organizations would guarantee things like senate seats, appointments to control SG organi-zations like ACCENT and SG Productions, and funding. The result of these dealings becomes the ticket for the System’s front party. 
Contributing organizations are expected to motivate their 
members to vote for the front party du jour. Since 2010, that 
party has been Swamp. Swamp’s scandal-ridden predecessor, 
Unite Party, ceased to exist in that year, but nearly all of its former leadership ended up running the then-new Swamp party, and the cycle continued. A method of reward and pun-ishment used to secure uniformity and votes kept the organi-zations in line — especially the communities, who were guar-anteed seats in the Senate if they went along with the System but could lose funding and inﬂ  uence if they did not. These groups opted to submit to hegemony until last Spring when they bravely supported Ac-cess party. 
Within organizations, blatant social pressure 
is used to get members to vote for the System’s party. One appalling example comes to mind when a Unite party ofﬁ  cial praised a sorority for denying food to its pledges until they voted for the correct party. Outside challengers have it worse, from per-sonal intimidation to tapping phones and destroy-
ing the cars and scooters of those who would speak out.
When an opposition candidate, Charles Grapski, ran for 
SG President in 1995, ﬂ  yers of “his” criminal record for child 
molestation were posted around campus. Grapski later sued 
FBK for defamation of character and won his case. 
Another classic move is for party functionaries to dispose 
of copies of the Alligator, should it endorse a non-System party (the Unite Party Senate president got caught doing this in 2010). 
All of this information, by the way, is easily available in 
online archives of the Alligator, the Gainesville Sun and other newspapers across the state. Not exactly a secret. 
A consistent part of the story is the System’s party re-
branding itself after loss or scandal. 
I’d heard rumors that Impact was, indeed, this fabled third 
party. But I didn’t believe them…until I read that Swamp Party did not register for elections this Fall and will not be on the ballot. 
The theory solidiﬁ  es when you look at Impact’s leader-
ship, most of whom were former Swamp ofﬁ  cials, and many of whom donated $100 or more to the party, according to a 
Facebook post from a group titled Stop UF Impact Party. 
I really do wish these were just incoherent ramblings and 
that I’m just a tin foil-hatted, paranoid conspiracy theorist. 
But that’s not the case. For the love of God, stay informed and come election time, make the ethical decision. 
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His columns appear on 
Fridays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgSenators Susan Webster and Christopher Boyett,
Congratulations on the launch of your “new” party. 
We hope this campaign will be a spirited contest pro-
viding the students with an honest choice between two very different visions for the future of Student Govern-
ment. 
The Student Body has questions, and we have an 
obligation to provide it with answers. 
We believe it is only fair to the Student Body to have 
a free exchange of ideas through a formal debate.
The Student Body deserves an unﬁ  ltered, open dia-
logue in front of a live audience.
If you are truly about coming together to solve the 
problems of SG, then you’ll agree to join us in a debate.
As the Impact Party’s future presidential candidate 
and current Party President, you are strong representa-tives of your party’s vision. As the Access Party’s Sen-
ate Minority Leader and current Party President, we will ably represent our party’s vision of expanding access to SG for every Gator.
We have no shortage of great organizations and me-
dia outlets to host a debate. We’ll even let you pick the host. Why not an independent organization like WUFT or the Alligator, or any one of the 1000+ student orga-nizations?
We’re ready – any time, any place. You’ve got our numbers. Hit us up!
Kalyani Hawaldar, 
Access Party President
Michael Christ, 
Access Party Senate Minority Leader  Open LetterFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015    ALLIGATOR   7
Somewhere between Silly Bandz and clothes for dogs, “Netﬂ  ix and chill” lies on the list of stupid trends.
For those of you who aren’t familiar 
with this phrase — such as Hulu sub-
scribers and my parents — “Netﬂ  ix and chill” has become a popular euphemism for “come to my place and kill time until we feel comfortable doing what we both came here to do, which is hook up.”
Just in April of this year, there were zero 
news headlines about “Netﬂ  ix and chill,” but so far in September, there have been upwards of 100, according to Google Trends.
Despite the undisputable trend, I have a lot of questions. 
Most importantly: Do people actually do this to get laid, or is it all just something that we joke about but don’t actu-ally do, like waiting an hour after eating to go swimming? How does the process work? Is there a set amount of time that we watch Netﬂ  ix for, or do I just awkwardly sit there, nervous and internally sweating, until someone ﬁ  nally makes a move? And why did we decide on Netﬂ  ix as the foreplay to sex in the ﬁ  rst place? Why can we not “HBOGo 
and chill?” Perhaps you can try inviting someone over for 
“Scrabble and chill.” Wouldn’t “talk about our mutual in-terests and chill” work just as well?
I suppose I might be biased, because “Netﬂ  ix and chill” 
does not register as fun, sexy times for me. One requires nice underwear and shaved legs, the other usually involves me lying in bed all day alone wearing macaroni-and-cheese-stained pajamas. 
I prefer to do my Netﬂ  ix and chilling by myself, where 
no one can judge me for my bad taste in movies — to be fair, I’m not going to want to have sex with someone who does not appreciate the high quality of “Legally Blonde,” anyway. But I don’t want to have to explain my choice in guilty-pleasure TV, nor do I want to be interrupted, 20 min-utes in, with an unrequested erection pressed into my back.I take my Netﬂ  ix binging seriously. Why 
hook up when we could marathon “Bob’s Burg-ers?” If you invite me to “Netﬂ  ix and chill,” that’s exactly what I’m going to do.
Don’t try to talk to me; I’m trying to pay at-
tention to the show. Stop trying to put your arm around me. And no, I don’t want to take off my shirt to “get more comfortable.”
Plus, think of how many half-watched mov-
ies our generation will see if we keep this up. No one will ever know how a ﬁ  lm ends because 
they’ll be busy with the “and chill” portion of the evening.
Can’t we just stop kidding ourselves? I understand that 
“rough sex and chill” is not really as palatable, but can’t we 
just be honest about our intentions? This is where “Netﬂ  ix 
and chill” becomes more serious. Yes, it’s a funny thing to joke about, but if you’re using it as a serious means to hook up, it’s inviting someone over under false pretenses.
You’re using “Netﬂ  ix and chill” as a nice way of saying 
that you want them to come over and hook up, but they might not realize that and believe they’re actually coming over just to, well, watch Netﬂ  ix and chill.
This is a little problematic in that both parties have dif-
ferent expectations. The other person might feel as if you deceived him or her or as if you’re pressuring him or her into doing something that wasn't planned on.
It’s just another way that hookup culture has taken over 
our society. Not everything has to be about sex; not every hangout has to involve a hookup. I don’t want to be invited over to watch Netﬂ  ix with a friend and worry the whole night whether he's going to make a move. It’s really not a cool — excuse me, chill— thing to do.  
 If you want to hook up, either say that or ask someone 
out on a date. 
Meanwhile, I’m going to keep Netﬂ  ix and chilling by 
myself… and maybe a box of pizza.
Robyn Smith is a journalism senior. Her columns ap-
pear on Fridays. Chill on the “Netﬂ  ix and chill" and just have sexColumnTuesday, Hun-gary formally closed its bor-ders, which sealed off a 
route that has brought 500,000 people to the borders of European Union nations this year.  
Some countries 
have accepted them in stride. German Interior Min-ister Thomas de Maizière an-
nounced that Germany expects 
to take more than 800,000 people this year. Sweden took in about 80,000 people last year. Other EU countries have been reluctant to help. The United Kingdom, Ire-land and Denmark have chosen to opt out of EU asylum-seeking policy entirely, although the U.K. 
has agreed to accept 20,000 peo-
ple from Syria over the next ﬁ  ve years. 
What I ﬁ  nd troubling is how 
often this inﬂ  ux of people is re-ferred to as a “migrant problem” when in reality it's closer to a “refugee crisis.” By United Na-tions deﬁ  nition, an international 
migrant is anyone who “changes 
his or her usual country of resi-dence.” For this reason, it is an incredibly vague, and often mis-leading, term when used to de-scribe the vast number of people currently attempting to enter the EU. 
In contrast, a refugee is rec-
ognized as a person ﬂ  eeing con-ﬂ  ict or persecution on the basis of race, religion, nationality or membership of a particular so-cial group or political opinion. Per international laws, a coun-try cannot send refugees back to their home countries if it is clear that their lives will be in danger if 
they return.
Using the term “migrant prob-
lem” to describe the inﬂ  ux of 
people into the EU carries the connotation that many are doing so to escape poverty but  not neces-sarily ﬂ  eeing for their survival. While this 
may be true for a small 
fraction of them, more than half of this year’s EU migrants originated from Syria, Eritrea and Afghanistan. All three countries  are wrought 
with conﬂ  ict ranging from ruth-less insurgent groups to corrupt 
governments. 
Migrants from these coun-
tries have left because they had 
to in order to live, not because they wanted to seek a better life in the West. They are  refugees. Calling this crisis a “migrant problem” fundamentally denies its urgency. There is no doubt 
these people are desperate. More 
than 2,600 migrants died trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea to get to the EU’s southern bor-ders. It takes time and resources to determine who among those trying to enter the EU are truly refugees and who are economic migrants. But in the meantime, it 
is not acceptable to simply refuse 
to help the many people who will otherwise perish in their home countries.
I realize that it may not be fea-
sible for the EU to accept all of these migrants in the long term — although it should be noted that Lebanon has accepted more than 
1 million refugees since the start 
of the Syrian civil war in 2011— but turning its back on a suffer-ing group of people in an hour of need is not the answer. That being said, the rest of the world must also help. Ultimately, this is a global problem that needs a global solution that doesn’t entail 
leaving thousands to die.    
Namwan Leavell is a UF 
economics senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.
“Migrant problem" mislead-
ing; mostly a refugee crisis
Namwan
 Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.orgColumn8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
By Madison Schorr
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF junior Josephine Strating 
stood in line on the Plaza of the 
Americas for a chance to test her 
U.S. Constitutional knowledge 
and possibly get a free slice of pizza.
UF students celebrated Con-
stitution Day on Thursday when they commemorated the signing of the U.S. Constitution in 1787. 
UF celebrated the day with a 
trivia quiz, which awarded  win-
ners with a slice of pizza.
Smathers Libraries invited stu-
dents to answer questions from 
the Naturalization Test given by 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
“The questions were hard,” 
said Strating, a 21-year-old inter-
national student from Holland. “And especially for me, since I am not American.  But I loved the idea that the U.S. has an en-
tire day devoted to celebrating the 
U.S. Constitution and that they are celebrating it with free pizza.”
UF Levin College of Law’s 
Constitution Day events kicked off at 8 a.m. with a First Amend-ment breakfast, where people could drink coffee and exercise their right to free speech. 
At lunchtime, a conversation 
about voting rights was held at HOL 285B. 
A free screening of the film Selma was also part of the day’s events.
“UF has been doing Consti-
tution Day events for years, but each time we like to vary things,” said David Schwieder, Smathers Libraries’ political science liaison.  
“This year, hundreds of students 
learned a little about the Consti-tution for a free pizza slice.”UF celebrates Constitution Day
ABOVE:
A pedestrian (left) declines to talk 
to paid petition circulator T erry Williams (center) while 19-year-old UF biology sophomore Alex Fethiere signs a petition to put the “Rights of Electricity Consumers Regarding Solar Energy Choice” amendment to Florida’s Consti-tution on the ballot. Fethiere said he signed the petition because the amendment could help citi-zens get cleaner energy.
MIDDLE LEFT:
Nicole Reed (left) and Kimberly Kelley, both 24-year-old law stu-dents, watch the movie “Selma” at UF Levin College of Law on Thurs-day as a part of Constitution Day activities. Reed and Kelley had never seen the movie before. “It’s really important to take time out and remember what people went through before us, ” Reed said.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Connor Montgomery, 21, tries to remember the main threat against the U.S. that initiated the Cold War. The UF criminology and law senior answered “the rise of communism” and got two slic-es of pizza as his prize.
BELOW:
In the Faculty Dining Room at UF Levin College of Law, the Florida Association for Women Lawyers finish out Constitution Day with a free screening of “Selma, ” a movie about Martin Luther King Jr’s campaign for equal voting rights. Danni Sanchez (bottom right), the 26-year-old president of the association, said “Selma” was an important movie to show because the content is a product of the constitution.
Movie, pizza and questions“The questions were hard.And 
especially for me, since I am 
not American.  But I loved the 
idea that the U.S. has an entire 
day devoted to celebrating 
the U.S. Constitution and that 
they are celebrating it with 
free pizza.”
Josephine Strating
UF international student
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Emma Green / Alligator 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015    ALLIGATOR   9
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
City Commissioners approved 
a new energy payment tier sys-
tem Thursday night, despite 
Gainesville residents expressing 
concern over rising rates.
The ordinance was approved 
by a vote of 6-1, with Commis-
sioner Harvey Budd voting as the 
lone dissenter. The changes will take effect Oct. 1.
The new tier system moves 
away from the current three-part 
tier system to a two-part system 
with an 850-kilowatt-hour break-point.
Under the old system, GRU 
customers fell into three different brackets based on their electricity usage: customers using less than 250 kilowatt hours, between 250 and 750 kilowatt hours, or more than 750 kilowatt hours.
Commissioner Craig Carter 
said the system was not economi-cally sustainable.
The lower two tiers were not 
making the base costs, Carter said.
“What we’re trying to do is just 
level it off a little bit and get them closer to what we need to do to actually sustain our electric com-
pany,” he said.
“This is just an adjustment. 
That’s all this is. That’s the way I 
see it,” he said. 
Mayor Ed Braddy said GRU 
customers above the 850 break will pay 50 percent more than people below the break point.
“How do you call that not fair?” 
Braddy asked. “I think we’re mov-ing in the right direction on this.”
Still, some GRU customers ex-
pressed concern over the new tier 
system and higher bills.
“You’ve got to understand, 
there’s a lot of moving parts 
here,” Gainesville resident Jim Konish said.
City Commissioner Charles 
Goston responded to critics by stating that the current commis-sioners had no part in the biomass contract that, in part, led to GRU 
having among the highest utility 
rates in Florida.
“We’re being blamed for their 
lack of leadership,” Goston said. 
“Now we have to ﬁ  ght a war we 
didn’t even create.”  Utility bills to change in tier system
GRU using 3 brackets
 Bike to beat addiction
More than 50 bicyclists will ride the Hawthorne State Trail 
starting at 9 a.m. Saturday as part of the Inaugural Biking Thru 
Addiction Fun Bike Ride. The ride will be about 32 miles round 
trip and will begin in Boulware Springs Nature Park. All pro-ceeds from the event, which costs between $35 and $40 de-
pending on the time of registration, will go toward Metamor-
phosis, an Alachua County program that provides treatment for recovering addicts.
Engineers can play, too
The UF Women in Electrical and Computer Engineering club 
is hosting the ﬁ  rst Engineer’s Play Day at the Cade Museum 
on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission is free, and the 
event will show the engineering community the outreach proj-ects WECE holds for young students.
Calling attention to immigration
On Saturday, the Interfaith Alliance for Immigrant Justice 
and the UF Center for Latin American Studies will host “Im-
migration: Action Through Collaboration,” a conference about 
immigration policy and advocacy. The conference will be in room 355B of UF’s Holland Law Center from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m.
Plunge into service 
This year, more students than ever before are expected to at-
tend UF’s Gator Plunge community service day, serving about 30 local organizations. Gator Plunge is a daylong service proj-
ect hosted by the Center for Leadership and Service. The event will be from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturday, and volunteers will 
meet at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.THIS WEEKEND 
IN GAINESVILLE“This is just an 
adjustment. That’s all this 
is. That’s the way I see it.”
Craig Carter 
CommissionerFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
Offices and Penthouse available
Offices: $400/mo includes electric
Penthouse: $3500/mo
Call The Seagle Building 352-378-4247
9-18-15-1-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    9-18-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
Documentary Filmmaking ProjectTeam or individual to film and produce a documentary on the life and comeback of a veteran mma fighter, think "smashing ma-chine" meets "cinderella man", for more info email showtimesportsmngmt@gmail.com   9-18-15-6-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD MONDAY, SEPT. 21, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
9-18-15-5-14
Wanted: Computer ProgrammerFamiliar with PHP and data collectionswww.goldendomefund.orgcall for more info. 229-247-5285    9-18-15-5-14
Middle School Tutor/Organizational helper Wanted to assist 2 or 3 times a week, pri-marily with organizational skills and some general tutoring. The tutoring is for 2 middle school girls attending Florida Virtual School full-time. Hours are flexible, one or 2 hours a sitting. $15-$20 an hour. Contact kelley.phil-lips@gmail.com    9-18-15-5-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
3 NATIVES - NEW JUICE BARNOW HIRING
Please send resume to:
GAINESVILLE3NATIVES@AOL.COM   9-21-15-2-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015
CNAs, PCAs, HHAs: Part time caregiver for 
SCI Quad. Must be Mature & Reliable, back-grounds checked. Reply to anything@gator.net or 352-281-9467.    9-21-15-2-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week! NO experience Needed! Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364     9-18-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    9-18-1-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusWe Put Drivers First!Earn $55K/yr + BonusesFamily Company  Beautiful TrucksCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com    9-18-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    9-18-1-14
OTR Drivers WantedDrivers Immediate Openings Now!Home Every Week, Excellent Pay/Benefits, 100% No Touch Freight,75% Drop & Hook.Class A CDL w/ 1 Yr. Exp. Req.CALL TODAY888-219-8039    9-18-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Remove Unwanted Hair TodayHalf-off laser hair removal50% off your first treatment352-333-FACE (352-333-3223)Visit www.gainesvilleflderm.com    9-18-15-5-15
Value Cleaning Starting @ $59
Eco-Friendly Product OptionWell established company in Gainesville. Call or text 352-214-9597    9-22-15-5-15PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe!  Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    9-18-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    9-18-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    9-18-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgAttention  Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only  $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    9-18-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    9-18-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ACROSS
1 *Dejected
5 *Sledding spot
10 *Waterloo
14 Enclosed in15 Electrical
component
16 Seaman’s
direction
17 9-Down sensors
18 Midwestern tribe
19 Show
appreciation, in away
20 “You shall hear
more __ morning”:“Measure forMeasure”
21 Shows a
preference
22 Amethyst source
23 Prognosticate25 Struggling engine
sound
27 Me.-to-Fla.
highway
28 Freudian subject
30 ’60s radical gp.
31 *Data transfer
32 Crockett’s
Waterloo
34 Annoyed
moviegoer’s
shout ... or what’s
needed to makesense of theanswers tostarred clues
39 Onetime Silly
String maker
40 *Faster way to fly
43 Seafarer
46 Bygone dentifrice
48 “Twelfth Night”
servant
49 Deserve credit,
perhaps
51 “Yes”
53 Ancient Iranians54 Thing on a bob55 “__ guy walks
into ... “
56 Actress Russell
57 Dinnertime
attraction
59 __ stick: incense
60 Rare blood type,
briefly
61 Memento62 Fifi’s BFF63 *1964 Grammy-
winning rock ’n’
roll song
64 *Decrease
65 *Musical starting
pointDOWN
1 “Watch out!”
2 Spanish sherry3 Rush hour
timesaver,hopefully
4 QB’s stats5 Feel one’s way
6 Took it easy
7 “Fate is so
cruel!”
8 Peer of Trygve
and Kofi
9 Looker?
10 Aspect
11 Metes out12 Bygone pump
word
13 Middle Ages
colony 
residents
21 Sugar suffix
22 Marx of lesser
repute
24 Provide, as with
talent
25 Lifestyle
magazine
26 Host noted for a
1960 on-airresignation
29 Was loquacious
33 Classic military
text by Carl von
Clausewitz
35 Legislative VIPs36 Touristy
viticultural valley
37 Indecisive
comment
38 Hardly
fascinating
41 Capital of Cyprus
42 Statistical matrix,
e.g.
43 Cruise
partnershipnickname
44 L’Oréal
competitor45 Altered, as a
map
47 Mental
wherewithal
48 GI grub50 Wield power52 Endangered
Sumatran
54 Mythical
troublemaker
57 Compact Cadillac
sedan
58 Dustup59 Hook relative
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/18/1509/18/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 18, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 15 Services
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online at www.alligator.org/sportsRedshirt seniors Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia have returned to UF's cross country team, led by coach Paul Spangler, after redshirting last year. Read the story on pg. 16. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
www.alligator.org/sports
SEC Nation stops in Gainesville
The Southeastern Conference Network's traveling pregame show, SEC 
Nation, will air live from the Plaza of the Americas on Sept. 26. The Gators play T ennessee at 3:30 p.m. The show will air from 10 a.m. to noon with host Joe T essitore and analysts Tim T ebow, Marcus Spears and Greg McElroy.We’re two weeks into the 
2015 college football sea-son, and we here at the 
alligatorSports Brand Picks 
Column are anticipating 
Florida’s first road game of the season. 
The Gators faced an East Carolina 
team searching for revenge, but UF came out on top, 31-24. 
Head coach Jim McElwain was 
displeased, however, with the lack of discipline displayed by Florida, and he 
didn’t hold back his displeasure. Now, 
after a week to fix those mistakes, UF takes on Kentucky at Commonwealth Stadium in a tough road battle. Florida 
has won the last 28 games in the se-
ries, but the Wildcats aren’t the push-over they once were. 
Debating Saturday’s Texas Tech vs. 
Arkansas game are alligatorSports edi-
tor Graham Hall and Alligator manag-
ing/online editor Jordan McPherson. 
The Razorbacks (-12) will beat 
the Red Raiders because...
Arkansas has something to prove. 
After being (relatively speaking) de-molished by Toledo, the Hogs needs to prove their still a national contender. 
And that means running the ball down 
Texas Tech's throat and not backing down until the Red Raiders are sent to the locker room crying.
-Jordan McPherson
Texas Tech (+12) will beat Ar-
kansas because…
The Razorbacks are coming off of 
a terrible loss to Toledo, and the game 
against Texas Tech is being called 
a “must-win” to keep their season alive. Coach Bret Bielema seems to lack confidence in the team’s running backs, as the Razorbacks sit 90th in 
the nation in rushing. Texas Tech’s 
defense is formidable in the secondary, but their rushing defense ranks near 
the bottom of NCAA Division I. If the 
Razorbacks run the ball down the Red Raiders’ throats, Arkansas will win. But Bielema hasn’t indicated PICKS
SITE: Commonwealth 
Stadium (cap. 61,000)
KICKOFF: 7:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
Alligator File Photo
Demarcus Robinson celebrates with teammates after scoring a touchdown in Florida's 36-30 triple-overtime win against Kentucky 
on Sept. 13, 2014, at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
For 28 years, Florida has had Kentucky 
figured out.
UF had the upper hand.
And when it was all said and done, the 
Gators ended on top.But when Florida heads to Lexington, 
Kentucky, for its first Southeastern Confer-
ence football game of the season, that streak 
will be in jeopardy.
Once the game kicks off at 7:30 p.m., the 
Gators will have their first true test of the season.
“This team we’re playing is not your 
same old Kentucky,” UF coach Jim McEl-wain said. “These guys are really good.”
The Gators have not lost a game to the 
Wildcats since 1986 — the year “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” hit the big screen and the last time the New York Mets won the World Series.
But with this Kentucky team surging and 
Florida still trying to find itself, McElwain is not taking anything for granted.
The Wildcats (2-0, 1-0 SEC) are coming 
off a 26-22 road win over South Carolina, Gators to open conference play at Kentucky
ALEX HOLSTON HAD A 
TEAM-HIGH NINE KILLS 
IN WIN OVER ST. JOHN'S.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Alex Holston was a ball hawk 
Thursday night. 
The junior right-side hitter slammed a team-high nine kills, 
including the final kill of the match — all while doing most of the work herself.
“With not the best looks 
she’s like the wide receiver,” coach Mary Wise said. 
“The passes weren’t right 
there, (but) she did a whole lot of work to complete the play.”
Holston and the No. 5 Gators’ 
efforts were enough to down St. John’s 3-0 
(25-15, 25-13, 25-21) in Florida’s home 
opener Thurs-
day night at the O’Connell Center.
“We all 
came in the game with a lot of excitement,” Holston said. 
“It was just a great start to our season playing in the O’Dome.”
The Gators (7-1) got off to a 
blistering start in the first set.
Florida hit .619 as a team, its 
second-highest hitting percent-age in a set this year.
Behind that number were 
Holston and sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan, who Florida volleyball sweeps home opener SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE  15
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15UF has won 28 straight vs. UK
Wise
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
MEN’S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
Last weekend, the Florida men’s golf team 
took a young core of underclassmen to the Car-
pet Capital Collegiate, where the Gators placed 7th in the Fall season’s opening tournament.
There were two big takeaways from the 
team’s weekend at The Farm Golf Club in Dal-ton, Georgia.
Although it was the first collegiate tourna-
ment for four out of the five starting players, the team can’t spend too much time adjusting to the new atmosphere. 
Both the players and the coaches know that 
the team has enough talent to place higher than 7th. 
Despite the rough start, everyone who’s a 
part of the team is incredibly optimistic about the amount of young talent and depth that this 2015-16 squad brings to the table. 
Even though the 7th place finish was an 
improvement over last year’s 13th place result in the Carpet Capital Collegiate, head coach J.C. Deacon was the first to admit that the team has yet to meet its potential. 
“Seventh sounds better, but, to be honest, 
we were all pretty disappointed about how we played and how we finished,” Deacon said. 
When asked about what the team needed 
to improve upon most, Deacon stressed the importance of not giving up too many strokes on individual holes. 
“We have to make a lot less double bogeys 
and triple bogeys. I think we had eight or more 
as a team for the weekend,” the second-year 
head coach said.
“Next week in the tournament, we’ve got to be more disciplined and kind of take our medicine more when we get in trouble. We 
can make bogeys, which don’t really hurt you, 
but we have to cut out the big numbers.”
But despite Deacon’s dissatisfaction with 
certain aspects of the Gators’ first perfor-mance, he’s encouraged about the team’s in-flux of young talent. 
“We played four true freshmen and Alejan-
dro (Tosti) is only in his second semester at Florida, so really we had five freshmen who are just getting a taste of what college golf is 
all about.”
The same sentiment was echoed by fresh-
man Sam Horsfield, who, despite leading the 
way for the Gators in their first tournament, he knows that the team underachieved. 
“We have everything to prove,” Horsfield 
said. 
“We went out in our first tournament and didn’t play our best, but this team is going to build off of that and we’re going to get bet-
ter. We have a great freshman class this year, 
probably number one in the country in terms of recruiting.”
Individually, Horsfield put on an impres-
sive display last weekend, tying for 4th place with a 1-under 215 in the first tournament of his college career. 
However, Horsfield is not one to rest on his 
laurels. 
“Obviously, we would’ve liked to play a 
little bit better as a team. We have to learn from it and then hopefully play better in our next event.”
That next event is the Dick’s Sporting 
Goods Collegiate Challenge Cup, only one week from today. 
Deacon knows that the team has enough 
talent to be one of the best in the country, but 
concedes that it won’t happen right away.
He acknowledges that the golfers need to 
make some important improvements before 
teeing off next week. 
“We’ve got to tighten up the details, we’ve 
got to get more disciplined, we’ve got to work even harder than we are right now, and all of us need to get better individually and help the team.”
Deacon understands the importance of 
dedication and patience. 
He believes Florida’s biggest strength is 
each individual player’s drive to be great. 
“That everyone going in the right direction, 
pushing each other in a positive manner, being great teammates, supporting each other, and working together for one goal,” Deacon said. 
“I think it’s pretty cool to be around.”Florida, yet to reach team’s potential, working on discipline
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Coming off an up-and-down 
week, the No. 12 Florida soc-cer team (5-2, 0-1 Southeastern Conference) will kick off its busy weekend with a conference match 
against Mississippi (5-1-2, 0-1 
SEC) on Friday night at 7 at James G. Pressly Stadium.
Both teams are desperate for a 
win, as they are coming off losses in their first conference matchups of the season.
The Gators lost to then-No. 6 
Texas A&M on Sept. 10 by a score of 2-1, while the Rebels lost 4-2 at home to Kentucky on Sept. 11.
UF and Ole Miss were both able 
to bounce back from those losses, with non-conference wins against Jacksonville University and Louis-
ville on Sunday, respectively.
The win for Florida was espe-
cially one-sided, a 4-0 road victory 
over the JU Dolphins, as it outshot the home opponent 29-7.
But getting big wins does not 
warrant overconfidence, especially when it comes to a key conference matchup.
“The Texas A&M game kinda 
shook us a little bit,” redshirt ju-nior goalkeeper Valerie Tysinger said.
“I think its more of a focus of ‘okay, like, what’s next, what’s next’ not ‘oh we did this, now we 
can relax.’
“I think it’s more of a ‘okay that 
was one step, let’s take another 
one.”
Even with the blowout win, 
there is still room for improve-ment, something that was evident in the JU game.
“We still saw even against Jack-
sonville that we had some things we still needed work on,” junior forward Savannah Jordan said.
Now, the Gators will face a 
team in Mississippi that, according to Florida coach Becky Burleigh, embraces the same resilient atti-
tude that her team prides itself on.
“I watched them on TV the oth-
er night, and I think they’re a team 
that just doesn’t quit,” Burleigh said on Monday.  
Much like the Rebels, UF is not 
prone to quitting either. 
The loss to TAMU was filled 
with both physical and mental mistakes, and even Burleigh de-scribed the play by the Gators as “poor.”
Despite the sloppiness of the 
game, Florida found a way to score a goal with just under 15 minutes left to get itself within one of the Aggies, and it looked as if the team 
would manage a draw.
Jordan will help lead the Gators 
into action under the Friday night 
lights against an Ole Miss team that returns a vast majority of its starters from last season.
Burleigh said that the experi-
ence that Mississippi presents gives the Gators a good challenge early in SEC play.
Picked as the preseason favorite 
to win the conference title, UF is facing a must-win situation against Ole Miss.
A loss to the Rebels would not 
only put the Gators into a deeper hole within the conference, but would also equal the amount of SEC losses the team had all of last 
season.Last season, two losses was still 
too much to overcome for Florida, 
as it finished runner-up to TAMU for the SEC title.  
“We lost our first game unfortu-
nately,” Jordan said.
“We don’t have a lot of room to 
lose many more.”
Gators still seeking first Southeastern Conference victory Alligator File Photo
Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at Mark Bostick 
Golf Course on Feb. 14. 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF forward Savannah Jordan shoots during Florida’s 3-2 win against Florida State on Aug. 30 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
UF plays MississippiThe Gators recorded 
13 total team blocks 
against the Red Storm Kentucky’s first road win since 2010 and 
first against an SEC opponent since 2009.
Kentucky almost won the game last year 
— a 36-30 defeat in which the Gators (2-0) needed three overtime periods to pull out 
a victory — but a breakout performance 
from wide receiver Demarcus Robinson (15 catches, 216 yards, two touchdowns) and a late push from running back Matt Jones 
preserved Florida’s victory.
“(It’s) pretty amazing,” McElwain said 
of the streak. 
“Yet I do know this, each game, each 
year, it’s a different team and a different 
set of players out there.”
And this year’s Kentucky team comes 
with experience on offense and up-and-coming talent on defense.
Quarterback Patrick Towles and a one-
two punch at running back lead the of-fense.
Towles, a redshirt junior in his second 
year as UK’s starting quarterback, has 
thrown for 449 yards and three touch-
downs in the Wildcats’ first two games.
Stanley Boom Williams leads Kentucky 
with 242 rushing yards and three touch-downs. 
His 10.1 yards per rush leads all run-
ning backs who have at least 20 carries this season.
The defense has forced six turnovers, 
tied for the most in the SEC and sixth na-tionally.“We have to make sure we’re really up 
all game,” linebacker Jarrad Davis said. 
“We can’t really mess around this 
week.”
And while the players know what’s at 
stake, Florida still has questions as it heads on the road.
Even though the team announced 
Thursday that redshirt freshman quarter-back Will Grier will draw the start Satur-day and McElwain said he plans to play the hot hand, UF’s first-year head coach said 
all week he envisions both quarterbacks 
getting reps.
“You don’t have a starter doing all the 
work and the other guy coming and get half of it and all of a sudden it’s my turn,” McElwain said. 
“You’ve got to prepare yourself like the 
starter.”
The defense is still in flux, too.
While the secondary will see the return 
of Vernon Hargreaves III and Keanu Neal, starting linebacker Alex Anzalone is out 
for the foreseeable future after injuring his right shoulder — the same one he had sur-
gery on after the 2013 season.
“He was outdoing almost everybody 
on the team in the linebacker spot,” Davis 
said. 
“He’s a freak. … It’s hard for us to re-
place a guy like that, but we just have to make sure we play to the best of our abili-ties every time we step on the field and we’re not going to have an issue.”
Saturday will provide a glimpse of 
what’s to come for the rest of the Gators’ season.
A win keeps Florida on the rise as it 
continues SEC play.
A loss will cause McElwain to reevalu-
ate how much stock can go into Florida’s early-season success.
“They understand what it takes,” McEl-
wain said. “So I look at this as one heck of a challenge for the Gators this week.”FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015    ALLIGATOR   15  
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF (-3) vs Kentucky  UF  UK  UF  UK
ND vs GT (-2.5)  ND  GT  GT  GTAuburn vs LSU (-6.5)  LSU  LSU  AU  LSUSCar vs UGA (-16.5)  UGA  SCar  SCar  UGAMiss vs Bama  Bama  Bama  Bama  MissBYU vs UCLA (-17)  UCLA  UCLA  BYU  BYUStanford vs USC (-10)  USC  USC  USC  STANFSU (-7.5) vs BC  FSU  FSU  FSU  BC
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF (-3) vs Kentucky  UF  UF  UF  UK
ND vs GT (-2.5)  ND  GT  GT  GTAuburn vs LSU (-6.5)  AU  AU  AU                   LSU
SCar vs UGA (-16.5)  UGA  SCar  SCar  SCarMiss vs Bama  Miss  Miss  Miss  BamaBYU vs UCLA (-17)  BYU  UCLA  BYU  UCLAStanford vs USC (-10)  USC  USC  USC  USCFSU (-7.5) vs BC  FSU  FSU  FSU  BCFOOTBALL,  from pg 13Will Grier will get the start against the Wildcats on Saturday
that the game plan will be more 
run-oriented, and the Red Raiders should hand Arkansas a second-
straight disappointing loss. 
— Graham Hall
Now onto the picks!
In first place, sitting at 11-4-1, is 
Gator Country’s Nick “Do you want 
me to type it for you” de la Torre, 
who received a (overdue and de-served) lashing from coach McEl-
wain when he asked the coach to 
address the team’s discipline issues again. We know you have to get as much content as possible to keep Gator Country minorly relevant, 
but come on man. He had just ad-
dressed that. 
In second with a 10-5-1 mark 
is the Palm Beach Post’s Anthony “Bandwagon Resident” Chiang, who tells anyone he meets that he grew up in Miami when he’s ac-tually from Kendall in unincorpo-
rated Dade County. Come on bro, 
embrace your small-town roots! Kendall has a lot of notable na-tives...like OJ Simpson. Coming in third with a 9-6-1 re-
cord is the Orlando Sentinel’s Ed-
gar “The Deer Hunter” Thompson, 
who showed his age to us young bucks by repeatedly bullying Gra-ham Hall into watching Michael Cimino’s 1978 classic. Good job 
trying to convince us that you’re 
a cultured movie buff, Edgar, but we all know your favorite film is Twilight. 
In fourth place with an 8-7-1 
record is alligatorSports editor Gra-ham "Terrible music taste" Hall, who insists anyone he meets lis-
ten to Young Thug or Rich Homie 
Quan. Graham, no one know what they're saying. Listen to some real music and culture yourself, please. 
We can't stand you.   
In a tie for fifth with a 7-8-1 re-
cord is the Alligator’s managing/
online editor Jordan “New Land-
on” McPherson, who frequently 
gets confused for Inside the Gators’ workhorse by Mark Long.  Come on Mark, how could you make 
such a mistake? Landon is clearly 
better looking and more profes-sional. Tied with Jordan for fifth is 
247Sports.com’s Thomas “Arm-chair quarterback” Goldkamp, who 
spends his Sundays breaking down 
film from the previous game and telling his Twitter followers what he would have done differently from the comfort of his recliner. 
How soon until you start begging 
for a roster spot like former alliga-torSports stud Richard Johnson? 
In a weak seventh place with a 
6-9-1 record is alligatorSports assis-tant editor Luis “Drunk Lou Holtz” Torres, who gets so flustered when he attempts to enunciate his opin-
ion that he mumbles worse than 
Lou Holtz post-happy hour. How are you supposed to make it in tele-communications if your work will 
always need subtitles? 
In dead-ass last with a piss poor 
record of 4-11-1 is alligatorSports 
staff writer Graham “Timezone il-
literate” Hack, who adamantly told 
Luis to “ignore the time change and keep track of the time in your head.” I know you’re used to keep-
ing track of the time with a sun dial 
and charts at your house in Archer, but we have technology now. PICKS,  from pg 13
each had three kills on three at-tacks.
Senior outside hitter Gabby 
Mallette, earning the start in lieu of the injured Carli Snyder, 
tallied four kills in the first set. 
The Orange Park native tied 
her season high with seven kills 
in the match.
Senior setter Mackenzie Da-
gostino, known for her top-spin-ning jump serve, finished off the Red Storm with her second ace 
of the match to win 25-15.
The Gators dominated once 
again in the second set.
While Florida and St. John’s 
were neck-and-neck in the be-
ginning of the set, UF pulled away after the Red Storm tied up it at 10-10.
Florida rumbled off eight 
straight points, all with senior outside hitter Ziva Recek behind the service line.
Recek strung together three 
aces during the run, including two in a row that helped the Gators keep their momentum going. 
“It was definitely a great 
serving run,” Alhassan said. “It’s something we needed.”
The Slovenia native cranked 
out the first to go up 14-10. 
A point later, Recek sent one 
fast and deep for an ace before slowly finessing her third ace of the set, barely kissing the top of the net and giving the Gators a 17-10 lead.
Fittingly, sophomore setter 
Abby Detering served up an ace of her own to take the set 25-13.
Florida tallied six aces 
throughout the match.
The Red Storm (9-4) put up a 
tough fight in the third set, only 
to be overcome by Florida’s 
blocking.
The Gators raced to an 8-3 
lead after Holston earned back-to-back blocks, the second being 
assisted by middle blocker Sim-
one Antwi. 
The Olney, Maryland, native 
compiled three blocks in the 
match.
“It was just really exciting for 
me to finally get all the parts put 
together and for it all to work out,” Holston said.
Alhassan, who led the match 
with six total blocks, helped Florida tally 13 total team blocks. 
The Glenarden, Maryland, 
native finished the game with a .636 hitting percentage. 
St. John’s inched their way 
back in the final set, knocking 
on Florida’s door at 17-16 and 
20-19, but ultimately couldn’t take the lead.
UF then went on to take the 
set 25-21 after Holston’s kill and sweep the Red Storm.
Florida now prepares to take 
on No. 18 Florida State on Sun-day at 5 p.m.
“The thing about Florida 
State is that when you take a team with great talent and that team gets to play their arch ri-
val, you get really good stuff,” 
Wise said, “and that has been true of Florida State now for a long time.”VOLLEYBALL,  from pg 13“You don’t have a starter doing all the 
work and the other guy coming and get 
half of it and all of a sudden it’s my 
turn.”
Jim McElwain 
UF football coach
“It was just really exciting 
for me to finally get all the 
parts put together and for it 
all to work out.” 
Alex Holston
UF right-side hitter16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer 
@ebaueri
Like any pair of best friends, UF 
cross country runners Jimmy Clark 
and Eddie Garcia can trace their friendship’s origin to a single mo-ment. 
“The ﬁ  rst time we actually got in 
contact, it’s a funny story,” Garcia said. 
“I had just got off the phone with 
(former UF) coach (Todd) Morgan at the time, and I told him that ‘hey, you know, I wanna commit here, I wanna come here,’ and apparently before the conversation coach Mor-gan reached out to Jimmy… After the phone call, Jimmy texted me… 
and I texted him back (saying) ‘hey 
man, I actually just committed!’”
While they lived about 15 min-
utes away from each other in high school, they knew each other only as competitors. 
“We knew of each other,” Gar-
cia said, “but we didn’t really know each other very well until we got to 
Florida.”
Regardless, that didn’t stop the 
duo — who were born one day apart 
on Nov. 20 and 21, 1992 — from get-ting better acquainted the summer before they arrived in Gainesville.
“We trained together every day from the time school got out until we came here in the Fall,” Clark 
said. 
And that was just the beginning.
      
Upon arriving at UF, the two 
found immediate success on the ter-
rain. Both found themselves named to the All-Southeastern Conference Freshman Team in 2011, with Clark 
being named SEC Freshman of the 
Year.
“One thing that Eddie and I and 
all the guys around us that came in together talked about was being able to win a team SEC championship,” Clark said. 
But it didn’t happen. At least not in 2011. 
That being said, it’s noteworthy 
for freshmen to contribute to a sec-
ond-place SEC team, and while the athletic success was deﬁ  nitely an ac-complishment for both of them, the two began to forge a friendship that was more meaningful than any ac-colade could ever be.
Over the next two years, the duo 
found better times and more suc-cess, culminating with another sec-ond-place ﬁ  nish at the SEC Champi-onships in 2013.
However, in 2014, both Clark 
and Garcia were noticeably absent from the Gators’ rotation, as the pair redshirted their senior seasons. 
Clark and Garcia were no fresh-
men, and they were certainly going to see “game time.” 
But having sat out the 2014 track 
season with an injury, Clark was not in ideal form going into Fall. 
“The whole summer, I was just 
trying to get back into respectable shape,” he said.
“I didn’t wanna go out being a 
number three on the team or four on the team. I wanted to go out being able to contribute.”
Coach Paul Spangler was recep-
tive to the idea. Even though he knew the team was going to suffer greatly without Clark and Garcia 
competing for them, his eyes were 
on the future. 
Garcia, who was not injured and 
could’ve used up his eligibility, was also receptive to the idea of redshirt-ing. 
“Jimmy and I came in together, 
and we both talked a lot about it, we thought it was in the team’s best in-
terest,” he said. 
“When I talked to Eddie, he was 
supportive,” Clark said. “He (said) 
‘we came in together, we’re gonna go out together.’”
The team didn’t take their ab-
sence lightly, and they struggled mightily in 2014. 
      
Following a 10th-place ﬁ  nish at 
the SEC Championships, the team — especially Clark and Garcia — is hoping to rebound in a big way. 
“Eddie and I’s real big goal is we 
just wanna get the team title,” Clark said. “We just wanna have team success. We want to be able to go to Nationals and have a good year. We want to go to SECs and come out with the SEC trophy.”This year, with their leadership, 
they perhaps have better pieces to do that than ever before. 
And lead they have, according to 
Spangler. 
“They’ve done a really good job 
explaining to the freshmen what our expectations are,” Spangler said. “Their inﬂ  uence will have an effect on this team well after they gradu-ate, which is good. They’re positive role models, positive leaders.”
With a talented freshman class 
and Clark and Garcia at the top, this team has the potential to do special 
things. However, it’s also the last 
chance for the duo to accomplish what they’ve been gunning for since setting foot on campus back in 2011.
“It’s gonna be bittersweet,” Gar-
cia said. 
“I’m gonna miss it. But I know 
that this year is gonna be a special year.”
Clark is also aware that this is 
his last chance to go out on top, and he’s focused on making sure that happens. 
“No matter what I do...as long as 
we win that SEC team title I think that I’d conclude that as a successful year,” he said.Senior duo ready to run for UF
Alligator File Photo
Jimmy Clark runs the Mountain Dew Invitational on Sept. 14, 2013.
Alligator File Photo
Eddie Garcia runs the Mountain Dew Invitational on Sept. 14, 2013.
