VOLUME 109 ISSUE 93 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Santa Fe introduces online program to offer 60+ languages 
You can learn Pirate, pg 3.  
Operation Catnip to pounce past milestone at free clinic
The program will ﬁ  x its 45,000th cat, pg 5. 63/44
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13
Kytra Hunter rallies UF gymnastics team
The senior is becoming more of a vocal leader, pg. 13. Billy Donovan 
and the UF men’s 
basketball team 
heads to Nashville 
to play Vanderbilt 
tonight. Read the 
story on Page 13.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A Tight Fit
Kelly Thomas, an 18-year-old UF chemical engineering freshman, squeezes her scooter between two other scooters near Library West on Monday afternoon. Thomas was on her way to the library to study for her upcoming Calculus 3 exam.
CAMPUS
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Professionally dressed with freshly up-
dated resumes in hand, students have a lot to prepare before making their Career Showcase entrances.
They’re not the only ones, however.  On Sunday morning, about 15 Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center staff workers spent four hours setting up tables for the 278 registered companies attending Spring 2015 Career Showcase.
Career Showcase will be today from 9 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. and Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. It is open only to UF students and alumni.
Long hours of planning, advertising and 
marketing for several months make the two-
day showcase a success each semester, said 
Heather White, director of the Career Re-source Center.
“Students secure full-time jobs and intern-
ships from this event,” she said.
Tuesday is the non-technical day for stu-
dents interested in accounting, healthcare, 
communications, education and sales and re-tail. Wednesday is known as the technical day for students in the computer science, engineer-O’Dome to be swamped for 
Spring Career Showcase
SEE CRC, PAGE 4
 SLATING CONTINUES FROM 9 
A.M. TO 5 P.M. TODAY.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Almost 300 students made their ways 
to the UF Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
for day two of qualifying and slating.
Monday’s qualifying and slating 
drew 275 students, said UF Supervisor of Elections Hans Rojas.  
Rojas said more students qualiﬁ  ed 
and slated on Monday than previous se-mesters, although as of press time, Roajs couldn’t provide last Spring’s numbers.
“We did have a huge increase of peo-
ple today in general,” he said.
Rojas said 222 students slated with 
Swamp Party and 49 with Access Party. Four of the 275 did not choose to slate with either party. 
A total of 312 students have qualiﬁ  ed since Sunday.
Today is the last day to qualify and 
slate from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Uyen Vu, 18, said the slating process 
went well despite her nerves. Vu slated with Swamp Party for a sophomore seat because she felt the party would rep-resent her queer and Asian-American identity.
“I wanted to be involved with a party 
that best represented and best fought for the community I identify with and care about,” the UF health science sopho-more said.
Brandon Stillword, 20, said he want-
ed to get more involved with SG after returning from the Marine Corps.
Stillword slated with Access Party 
because he wanted to support friends involved with the party, the UF chemi-cal engineering junior said.
“It’s a good opportunity to get in-
volved,” he said.Day 2 slating turnout high
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  geueroa@alligator.org
Gladstone Michel and Ruth DeClasse said 
goodbye to their only son, Jerry DeClasse, for 
the last time Sunday afternoon.  
DeClasse laid peacefully in his cofﬁ  n, three blue, stained-glass angels etched behind him.
On Jan. 9, Jerry DeClasse was hit by a 
car on Northeast Waldo Road, according to Gainesville Police. On Jan. 16, he was taken off life support after receiving care from UF 
Health Shands Hospital following the hit-and-
run accident. He was 20.His funeral was held in the DeClasses’ na-
tive language of Haitian Creole at 1 p.m. Sun-day in the Gainesville Seventh-day Adventist Church at 2115 NW 39th Ave.
Ruth DeClasse’s wails echoed throughout 
the wood-and-stone church. She repeated Jer-ry’s name over and over before switching to Haitian-Creole hymns.
“I love Jerry, my son,” Ruth DeClasse said through her sobs.
A sea of black and white clothing ﬁ  lled the 
pews as family and friends shufﬂ  ed in with bowed heads.
A clarinet-and-piano duo broke the heavy 
silence.
Dressed in white, Ruth DeClasse made 
her way to the lectern with her husband, who supported her by the waist, and her daughter UF student Jerry DeClasse remembered with campus memorial
SEE MEMORIAL, PAGE 4Friends, family gathered at HarnNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 93 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
69/39SUNNY
58/32RAIN
64/33RAIN
67/53SUNNY
63/44
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-
crease your global aware-ness, enhance your for-eign language skills, make 
friends, establish new con-
tacts, strengthen your re-sume and intern abroad. All of these opportunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For additional information, 
visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/in-
dex.html or email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Want to improve your writ-ing skills while making new friends? Come to the 
Creative Writing Club ev-
ery Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 014. Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a member of the group and then dis-cussing the story with the whole group with a focus 
on constructive criticism. 
There are no requirements to join; just come and have fun with us.
Kan-Jam Tournament
Kan-Jam is a flying-disk game played with a Frisbee and two cans. The object 
of the game is to throw 
or deflect the Frisbee into the can. The first team to reach 21 points wins. The Kan-Jam Tournament will be Friday at the Broward Outdoor Recreation Center. Teams will consist of two players and will be in an 
open league format (2 
guys, 2 girls or 1 guy, 1 girl). Registration closes on Thursday at 5 p.m. For more information or to register, visit recsports.ufl.edu/intramural-sports/events-tournaments/kan-jam.
“The More Things Change, 
The More They Remain the Same: Race In America”On Thursday at 5 p.m. in Pugh Hall, the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program presents the Alice Mary Baldwin Professor of 
History at Duke University, 
William Chafe, who will deliver a lecture entitled, “The More Things Change, The More They Remain the Same: Race in America.” Chafe will review the roles of the state and grassroots protests in creating social 
change, then subsequently 
protecting or reversing it. Chafe will discuss how the 1890s led to state repres-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Authors@UF: A Conversation 
with Ted SpikerAssociate professor in the Department of Journalism Ted Spiker will discuss his 
book “Down Size: 12 Truths 
for Turning Pants-Splitting Frustration into Pants-Fitting Success” today from 5 to 6:15 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Come meet Spiker as he shares his vulnerable, hilarious and ultimately in-sightful experience on taking 
the scale — and himself — 
head on, and how he teaches, writes, runs and blogs while serving as the interim chair of the department. Check out his video at tedspiker.com/. Refreshments will be served.
Fulbright Talk
Eileen Ariza will speak to-day at 4:30 p.m. in McCarty Hall D, Room G001. Ariza is a professor at Florida Atlantic University and a Fulbright Ambassador. Before mov-ing to Florida, Ariza was a teaching fellow in the English Language Institute 
at Harvard University and 
taught English and related work in several countries, including Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Brazil, Spain and the Philippines. Come and learn about the Fulbright experience. For off-campus 
audiences, videoconferencing 
via Polycom will be available. There will be refreshments and networking after the lec-ture. For more information about this event, contact pro-fessor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Humanists on Campus
Humanists on Campus will be having its second general body meeting today at 7:20 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 0011. Humanists on Campus is a secular organization that aims to foster an environment in which students can ex-
plore the ideals of humanism 
through discussion, commu-nity service and networking.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets TuesdaysTalking Gators meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the Entomology 
Building off of Natural Area 
Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. For more information, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org. Talking Gators is also on Facebook. All are wel-come.
SWE Evening with Industry
Come out to the Society of Women Engineer’s Spring Evening With Industry! EWI is a business-professional event geared toward mix-ing students with recruiters to attain internships, co-ops and jobs. It is held on the eve-
ning of UF’s Career Showcase 
technical day, Wednesday, from 5:30 to 7 p.m. in Ustler Hall.sion and institutionalized 
Jim Crow, how the move-
ment reversed that process, how the Civil Rights Act and Voting Rights Act changed some things, but not others, and the new fight over trying to reverse the gains made 50 years ago. The event is free and open to the public. For 
more information, call 352-
392-7168 or visit oral.history.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions 
may not appear in the paper. 
Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
In an article that ran Jan. 23 
under the headline “UF study: condemn school paddling,”the nature of the survey was described incorrectly, originally saying they asked which punishment tech-niques were effective when it should have said they looked at proactive steps schools were taking to prevent the use of punishment.
In an article that ran on Jan. 
30 under the headline “GNV among best for millennial jobs,” Bryan Eastman’s name was spelled wrong, as Easton.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College students and 
faculty can now learn more than 60 
languages for free online — includ-ing Pirate.
The college recently subscribed 
to Mango Languages, an online da-tabase that allows people to learn everything from Hindi to Yiddish. Each language has the equivalent of about two semesters worth of study, said Diana Matthews, Santa Fe Law-rence W. Tyree Library librarian.
And, she added, the database is 
constantly adding more languages.
“Many of the more popular lan-
guages also have specialized cours-es,” Matthews said. “For instance, Spanish has a medical Spanish mod-ule. So if you’re going to be going into the health care field (and) you need to brush up on some medical vocabulary, that’s in there.”
Some of the popular languages 
also include full-length films, audio recordings and the ability for users to speak into a microphone to com-pare their pronunciation with a na-tive speaker’s accent.
Matthews said students and fac-
ulty will be able to access Mango for free both on campus and remotely, as well as through an app. Mango 
can be accessed through eSantaFe 
by clicking on Study Tools and se-lecting Library Databases.
Nichole Pierce, a 20-year-old 
Santa Fe linguistics sophomore, said she’s using the program to learn three languages — Brazilian Portu-guese, Mandarin Chinese and Ko-rean.
While she acknowledges the best 
way to learn a language is to im-merse oneself in the culture, Pierce said Mango is a good start.
“People should really invest in 
taking a second language,” she said. “It’s very lucrative. A lot of compa-nies and places like people who … are familiar in international settings, or they know another language.”
Santa Fe introduces  
free online program,offers 60+ languages
Available languages:
Spanish (Spain), Spanish (Latin America), French, Italian, Arabic (Egyptian, Iraqi, Levantine, Modern Standard), Mandarin Chinese, Cantonese Chinese, Japanese, German, Hindi, Brazilian Portuguese, Bengali, Armenian, Azerbaijani, Biblical Hebrew, Cherokee, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dari, Dutch, English, Farsi, Finnish, Greek, Haitian Creole, Hawaiian, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Indonesian, Irish, Kazakh, Korean, Latin, Malay, Malaysian, Norwegian, Pashto, Pirate, Polish, Punjabi, Romanian, Russian, Scottish Gaelic, Serbian, Slovak, Swahili, Swedish, Tagalog, Tamil, Telugu, Thai, Turkish, Tuvan, Ukranian, Urdu, Vietnamese and Yiddish.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville woman was 
arrested early Sunday after re-
portedly crashing into five cars in an apartment complex park-ing lot while driving drunk.
At about 9:45 p.m. Satur-
day, Haley Jean Thompson, 21, was leaving the University Commons parking lot, locat-ed at 2601 SW Archer Road, when she crashed into five cars parked in front of building B, according to a Gainesville Po-lice report. 
She caused more than 
$9,000 in damages.
A witness told police 
Thompson had been drinking with a group of friends at an apartment when she got mad and drove away. She returned soon after and told her friends 
she had crashed into several 
cars but refused to call police, according to the report.
An anonymous call also 
reported a woman matching Thompson’s description at a nearby Shell gas station heav-ily intoxicated and barely able to walk, according to the re-
port.
Police found Thompson in 
a nearby building, where she 
admitted to drinking, driving, crashing into the cars and leav-ing the scene of the crash. She told police she drove to the gas station to buy more alcohol for her and some friends.
Officers charged Thompson 
with hit and run. She was tak-en to the Alachua County Jail and released Monday morning on her own recognizance. Police: GNV woman 
hit five parked cars 
while intoxicatedRudjelle, who held her arms.
She spoke in Creole, evoking painful 
wails and shouts of agreement from the 
crowd before she started singing. Tears streamed down her face, but she never fal-
tered, looking out and bellowing a song she 
dedicated to her son.
When she finished, she fell into her husband’s arms, and he carried her off the stage.  
Rudjelle DeClasse took the microphone 
and pulled it close. She said her brother was everything to her; he supported her when she needed it.
“The last time I saw him, he sat me down 
and he told me how much he believed in me and how much potential I had,” she said.
His life was also celebrated on campus 
Monday in the Chandler Auditorium of 
the Harn Museum of Art with Innovation Academy students and immediate family 
members.
UF President Kent Fuchs attended to 
give his condolences to DeClasse’s family.
“We cherish our students here at the 
University of Florida,” Fuchs said. “We know that each student adds something special and unique and wonderful to our university and community.”
Innovation Academy Director Jeff Cit-
ty said DeClasse would have been in the 
first class of Innovation Academy grad-uates, earning an IA minor.
DeClasse finished four of the six classes 
for the IA minor, and Citty awarded his 
family the university’s first IA medal.
DeClasse’s memorial ended with a 
speech by one of his close friends, 20-year-old David Nassau.
“I’m a better person for knowing Jerry,” 
the UF business and marketing junior said.
As the ceremony came to a close and cry-
ing friends and family filed out, two flutes 
softly hummed “Amazing Grace.”ing, information system and 
research fields.
White said first- and sec-
ond-year students should attend the showcase even if 
they are not looking for a job 
or internship.  
“It’s a great way to under-
stand how that process works and a great way to network,” she said.
White said there is a 
nine percent increase in the amount of companies attend-
ing from last Spring, and the 
showcase is the largest in the Southeast.
There are 43 companies 
that are either new or have not attended in the last three years, plus 17 local compa-nies, she said.“To see those numbers 
constantly growing is such a rewarding experience,” she said.
White added that it’s re-
warding to see the showcase come together, watching stu-dents gain job opportunities.
“We know that this chang-
es students’ lives,” she said.
Dana McPherson, market-
ing and digital media man-ager, said behind the scenes is 
busy, but she enjoys it.  
“It’s stressful, but with that 
stress, it’s a lot of excitement 
and creativity,” she said.
Students can check into 
the showcase with their Gator 1 Cards, and alumni need 
to bring a resume indicat-
ing they graduated from UF. Students can also print their resumes at the O’Connell Center.4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Studying Surrealism
Becca Negron, a 21-year-old UF creative photography senior, sits on the North Lawn on Monday after-
noon and studies a reading on surrealism in preparation for a class discussion.
CRIME
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested an employee at 
the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Sunday morning in connection with the rape of a local 15-year-old girl.
Frank Steven Krause, a 20-year-old resi-
dent of Painesville, Ohio, was working at a nut and grill vendor during the fair Saturday. He allegedly talked her into going alone with him to a wooded area on 3220 NE 39th Ave., near the Alachua County Fairgrounds, around 8:30 p.m., according to a police report. Krause then reportedly sexually assaulted the girl, ignor-ing her pleas to stop.
Police found Krause after the girl gave po-
lice his phone number and other information, Gainesville Police spokesman Officer Ben To-bias said. Krause admitted to having sex with the girl after his arrest just after 11 a.m. Sunday, ac-cording to the police report.
The girl sustained no 
additional physical inju-ries but received a forensic medical exam, Tobias said.
Krause was released 
from prison in Ohio on 
Sept. 15 after serving 18 months on a third-degree burglary charge, according to the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction’s website. He was still under supervision when he was arrested in Gainesville.
Krause was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail on a sexual assault charge. As of press time, he is being held in lieu of a $150,000 bond.
Tobias said this was the only major crime at 
the fair this year, which observed its 29th year Jan. 24 - 25 and Jan. 30 - Feb. 1.
Medieval faire vendor arrested, charged with sexual assault
Krause
CRC , from page 117 local companies 
will be at showcase 
DeClasse’s family was given his Innovation Academy medal
MEMORIAL , 
from page 1
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jerry DeClasse (left) poses for a photo with his best friend, Hammaad 
Saber, a 21-year-old UF industrial systems engineering junior.Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Jerry DeClasse poses for a photo with Shanthi Swaroop Katika, 25, David Nassau, 20, and Niraj Lodaya, 24.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A Day’s Work
Marvin Jackson, 63, leaves the new chemistry building construction site on Buckman Drive after the 
end of his shift.
File Photo
A cat lies on an operating table during Operation Catnip, a program to help control cat over-population.
MORIAH GAYNOR
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local cat rescue group will be fix-
ing its 45,000th cat this weekend.
Operation Catnip, a nonprofit 
spaying and neutering project for feral and stray cats, is hosting a free clinic Sunday. 
The caregiver of the lucky 45,000th 
cat will receive a gift bag, and there will be a cake to commemorate the ac-complishment.
But despite the number of cats 
spayed or neutered, the nonprofit’s job is nowhere near finished, said Julie 
Levy, a UF professor of shelter medi-
cine and founder of Operation Catnip.
“We know there are so many more 
cats that need our help that we’re not 
reaching,” Levy said. “We can cel-
ebrate for one day, and then we have 
to figure out how to reach those other cats.”
Alachua County’s intake per capita 
is relatively high, sitting at about 23 
animals per 1,000 people, said Audrey Garrison, executive director of Opera-
tion Catnip.
Since the Gainesville chapter’s in-
ception in 1998, Operation Catnip has provided free spaying and neutering to stray and feral cats, courtesy of the UF College of Veterinary Medicine.
“We need to have the cats that are 
out there healthy and happy and not being a nuisance,” said Emily Hender-son, the cat and caregiver coordinator at Operation Catnip.
To participate, residents in the 
Gainesville area can request a free trap from Operation Catnip and bring in the stray or feral cat to the college on the day of the event. 
On average, each event  aids about 
150 cats and requires about 105 vol-unteers to help with the cats’ arrival, surgery and recovery.
To volunteer at the event, fill out an 
online application at ocgainesville.org 
and attend a quick orientation before 
the event. To make a reservation for Sunday’s spay and neuter clinic, call 352-380-0940.Operation Catnip to pounce past milestone at free clinic 
 IT INCLUDES A MONET.
SAMANTHA POLLACK
Alligator Contributing Writer
Art enthusiasts don’t have 
to travel far to view world-
class masterpieces.
A new exhibition called 
“Monet and American Im-pressionism” will open for viewing today at the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art.
“I keep hearing from my 
colleagues that many people 
they’ve met in recent months are talking about the exhibi-tion,” said Dulce Román, the 
Harn curator for modern art. 
“It was really exciting for me to hear that there is such a buzz.”
Román said students who 
visit the exhibition will learn that impressionism goes be-yond what we think it is, opening viewer’s eyes to the 
response American artists 
had to the works of Monet and the French impression-ists.
Jackie Bontjes, a 19-year-
old UF finance sophomore 
with a love for art, said she cannot wait to see the exhibi-
tion.
“Impressionist art has al-
ways been a huge interest of mine ever since I saw Mon-et’s ‘Water Lilies’ painting in the MoMA,” Bontjes wrote in 
a message. “I’m glad that UF 
is working so hard to bring in new and interesting art pieces that have such a his-toric place in the realm of 
art.”
Román said the exhibition 
will feature iconic works 
from Mary Cassatt, William 
Merritt Chase, Childe Has-
sam, Willard Metcalf, Theo-dore Robinson, John Henry Twachtman and J. Alden Weir. 
The pieces are from more 
than 25 institutions, includ-ing the National Gallery of Art, Smithsonian American 
Art Museum, Terra Founda-
tion for American Art and Brooklyn Museum.
The exhibition will be on 
display until May 24.
“I hope the show will en-
courage people who have never been to the Harn to come to see and hear about 
Monet and French impres-
sionism,” Román said, “and the way their works revo-lutionized American paint-ing.”Traveling art exhibit 
stops at Harn, brings impressionist artists TECH
MIKAYLA MOTT
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new website is helping Taryn 
Tacher reach her $2,000 fundraising 
goal for Dance Marathon.
Tacher, a 22-year-old UF jour-
nalism senior, is making dream catchers and selling them on Brtr, planning to donate the proceeds to Dance Marathon for the UF Health 
Shands Children’s Hospital.
Brtr, which launched in January, 
acts as a more interpersonal space 
for local people to buy and sell ser-vices. 
It gives people a place to turn 
their passions into skills to create an income, said founder Rachel Feder-man.
“What if you gave (people) the 
power to start doing what they love?” she said. “We’re here to re-ally try to change the landscape for people who need a flexible schedule and put the power into their hands.”
Brtr users have taken advantage 
of its quick setup and simple proce-
dure, creating a space to make mon-
ey within minutes. 
Users are offering resume cri-
tiques, skateboarding lessons and event planning services.
UF students have caught on to 
the site, which provides an opportu-nity for income on a time-crunched schedule.
Tacher said in two weeks she had about 20 clients. Each dream catcher is sold for $15.
“It’s been a lot more successful 
than I would have expected,” she said. “I’ve had constant orders.”
UF political science sophomore 
Rachel Reiss, 20, said starting her resume-critiquing company was simple, but it hasn’t been successful 
— yet.
“I think that will come as there is 
more PR to accompany (Brtr),” Reiss 
said.
Brtr currently has 267 people 
logged into the site, but only a small portion of those people are provid-ing services, Federman said.
“Everyone is welcome,” she said. 
“Everyone has something to offer.”Website Brtr gaining traction at UF
“It was really exciting 
for me to hear that there 
is such a buzz.”
Dulce Román
Harn curator for modern artReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
72 TOTAL VOTES44% KATY
56% MISSY
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Katy Perry or 
Missy Elliot?Today’s question: Are you going to the Career Show -
case?As the Staples Center sets up to host the 57th Gram-
my Awards, the public continues to tear down the show for its nominations in the rap categories. The 
criticism primarily stems from the decision to include Iggy Azalea’s “The New Classic” as a nominee for Best Rap Al-bum. Iggy Azalea has been accused of profiting off the gen-trification of hip-hop culture by a number of hip-hop-based media outlets. She has replied to most accusations hurled her way with social media.
Last year at the Grammys, Macklemore faced similar 
criticism from hip-hop media during the time he was nomi-nated for Best Rap Album. The criticism was so severe the committee debated whether to place Macklemore in the rap category. Macklemore ended up predictably sweeping the rap category, winning both Best Rap Song and Best Rap Performance for “Thrift Shop.” The award for Best Rap Al-bum was assumed to go to Kendrick Lamar’s “Good Kid, M.A.A.D. City,” but Macklemore’s “The Heist” won the award instead. Macklemore apologized to Kendrick Lamar saying that Kendrick was “robbed,” and hip-hop media concurred. The people in hip-hop felt the art form was be-ing disrespected.
This feeling of disrespect and neglect is nothing new 
to rappers and fans. Kanye West went on rants over the fact that his album “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy” was not in contention for Album of the Year, despite be-ing widely regarded as such by a multitude of publications. Jay-Z has boycotted the Grammys before, stating that “too many major rap artists continue to be overlooked.”
Overall, I completely understand the frustration with 
the Grammys regarding rap music. They have undermined the genre in many ways: not broadcasting some of the awards, hosting ceremonies where no rappers performed and making some questionable decisions when giving out awards — i.e. Will Smith’s “Gettin’ Jiggy With it” beating Jay-Z’s “Hard Knock Life” for Best Rap Solo Performance. I don’t expect this to change anytime soon.When the Grammys were 
invented, rap music didn’t ex-ist. Rap only became a part of the Grammys once its popular-ity could no longer be ignored. 
When the Grammys finally included the genre in the award show, it gave its first rap award to Jeffrey Townes and Will Smith. This was a sign of things to come.
I expect Iggy Azalea to win any rap category she is nom-
inated for Feb. 8. Despite lackluster reviews and a lack of sales, “The New Classic” produced massive hits in the form of “Fancy” and “Black Widow.”
I understand the frustration with these decisions. What I 
don’t understand is why rap fans expect anything different. I also don’t understand why rap fans and artists don’t do something about this situation. The same people who claim Kendrick Lamar was robbed last year will certainly not be protesting the Grammys this year.
Hip-hop used to have its own award shows that were 
held in reverence. The Source Awards no longer exist, and the BET Hip-Hop Awards are consistently skipped by most of hip-hop’s biggest artists without explanation. If people decided to celebrate the hip-hop award shows we currently have, then the genre can be better represented.
I also don’t understand why people hold the Grammys 
in such high regard when it comes to rap music. Tupac never won a Grammy. Nas has never won a Grammy. The Notorious B.I.G. has never won a Grammy. These rappers all had wildly successful careers, and not having a Grammy didn’t hinder their abilities to influence future rappers and sell records.
If rap fans are upset, they should protest the Grammys 
and invest in a hip-hop award show. When Iggy Azalea wins the Grammy for Best Rap Album, what will it mean? Nothing. One’s legacy in rap is not measured in Grammys.
Emanuel Griffin is a UF journalism freshman. His columns 
appear on Tuesdays. 
Hip-Hop: the Grammy’s black sheepVaccination goes 
beyond personal 
choiceChris Christie has done it again.
By “it,” we mean stumbled into a public health crisis.
Democratic societies are always preoccupied with 
striking the best balance between private liberty and the public good. Extreme examples: Should it be legal to smoke meth and 
drive-by shoot your neighbors’ mailboxes? Should the govern-
ment track everybody’s every move, just to make sure none of us are up to anything naughty?
A significant majority of people would, we’re sure, agree 
that neither of those situations should be allowed to happen — but sometimes, the answer isn’t so obvious.
In the mind of Christie, this seems to be the case in regard to 
the recent flare-up of vaccination controversies. Measles, a dis-ease which was considered eradicated just 15 years ago, made 
a nasty comeback last month. 
The outbreak began when a few dozen people, most of 
whom had not been vaccinated against measles, were exposed 
to it at Disneyland in California. Since then, the virus has in-fected 102 people in 14 states. Responsibility for the outbreak lies on the hack doctors and celebrities of the anti-vaccination movement, who urge parents not to immunize their children using pseudoscience to fuel paranoia.
It was into this mess that Christie made his clumsy foray 
earlier this week. While maintaining he and his wife are per-sonally in favor of vaccination, he said parents should have “some measure of choice” in the matter.
We’re facing the worst outbreak of measles — a disease that 
is entirely preventable — in decades, all because a few thou-sand people felt too entitled, or too trusting of junk science, to bother inoculating their kids against it.
Of the many, many facts anti-vaxxers fail to understand or 
realize, a rather serious one is that the choice of electing not 
to vaccinate themselves and their children affects everybody 
else, too. 
As every shred of credible evidence has already demon-
strated, there is a positive correlation between the number of people vaccinated against a virus and the scarcity of that virus’ impact on people. 
Beyond that obvious fact, high immunization rates help to 
protect those who are too young or old, or whose immune sys-tems are too weak to be vaccinated. It’s a concept called  “herd 
immunity,” and it protects the vulnerable among us who can’t 
be inoculated themselves. Anti-vaccination advocates and their adherents, then, place their misinformed and conceited notions of health care above the safety and lives of everybody else.
We’re not suggesting that Christie — or anyone else, for 
that matter — forcibly vaccinate American citizens by any means. What we are suggesting, though, is for prominent po-litical leaders like Christie to be more responsible with their rhetoric. His statement, though probably made in good faith, 
will serve to legitimize a sham strain of medical theory 
whose only result is making us all more prone to disease and suffering.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOREmanuel Griffin
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
This Saturday, I attended the 2015 Cre-
ativity in the Arts and Sciences Event. Created by the UF Howard Hughes 
Medical Institute Science for Life program and the UF College of the Arts, CASE was a daylong exploration of projects created out of collaboration between UF’s best science 
geeks and artsy types. It was wonderful.
The event centered on topics the science, 
technology, engineering and math students 
were researching and translating them into an artistic outlet. Projects ranged from dance to architecture to pot-
tery, with plenty of paintings and a few existentialist 
performance pieces sprinkled into the mix.
The event was a fascinating chance to hear about cut-
ting-edge research in a way that was more interesting than a laminated poster full of scientiﬁ  c jargon. It was also an opportunity to see the creations that the UF Col-lege of the Arts students are capable of, and their talents 
blew me away.
However, what is even more interesting than the re-
search and the art was the fact that the projects at CASE 
were created by a collaboration between the arts and the hard sciences. 
Too often, I’ve been told by people majoring in STEM 
ﬁ  elds that they are “totally not creative.” Personally, as someone majoring in a humanities ﬁ  eld, I really don’t understand how anyone enjoys studying physics.
I’d argue that people in the STEM ﬁ  elds actually are 
creative, and science is all about creativity. Scientiﬁ  c re-search, for example, starts with thinking creatively in order to discover the solutions to the questions of our universe.
The arts and the humanities incorporate scientiﬁ  c el-
ements into their work all the time, from the chemical blending of colors on a canvas to the precise angles of movement in dance.
But for some reason, instead of appreciating these 
two disciplines equally, people often seem to judge them against each other. 
Usually, science seems to come out on 
top. Students in the arts are ridiculed for 
picking majors that are not as economically 
feasible. Arts programs in high schools are continually ﬁ  ghting against expulsion and poor funding. I’ve even talked to people who 
assume that people studying the arts or hu-
manities are simply not as smart as individu-als in STEM ﬁ  elds, an assumption as insult-
ing as it is unfounded.
In today’s world, there is a stronger emphasis on the 
importance of the sciences rather than the arts, and I’m glad they are getting the support and respect they de-serve.
Looking at the discipline historically, the sciences 
used to be a pretty dicey subject. We’ve come a long way from being prosecuted for claiming our planet isn’t the center of the known universe or thinking that making 
people bleed is the right way to cure the ﬂ  u.
The arts and the humanities have come a long way, 
too, and they will continue to churn out new methods of 
human thought and daring cultural renaissances. These disciplines have been important for thousands of years 
and have sparked some of the greatest revolutions of hu-
man history. 
In the words of Time magazine columnist Joel Stein, 
“The world wants not just utilitarian goods, but a pano-
ply of ways for expressing our experience.” The arts and 
the humanities are ways to express and communicate these experiences. When people start to remember that, it’s likely that we will all communicate our ideas more efﬁ  ciently.
When the arts and the sciences collaborate and are 
viewed as equals, there are even more ways to explore the world. New expressions and perspectives are pos-sible. The UF CASE event is only one example.
Sally Greider is an English and public relations sopho-
more. Her column appears on Tuesdays.  Collaboration between arts and sciences 
essential for new persectives, expressionsColumn
In the midst of public safety concerns and com-
plaints, Florida’s ban on black bear hunting might 
be lifted for the ﬁ  rst time in two decades. Several 
reported bear attacks and an increase in bear sightings 
have prompted the Florida Fish & Wildlife Conserva-tion Commission to introduce the possibility of a bear-
hunting season. The commission will begin discussing 
the issue Wednesday.
Proponents of the hunt-
ing season have argued that it would help control a grow-
ing bear population that is 
spilling into suburban areas. They also point out that the 
hunt would only last one 
week in the fall, and hunters would be prohibited from targeting female bears with cubs.
Still, many people are understandably concerned 
about this proposal, and I don’t blame them. The hunt-ing season being suggested by state ofﬁ  cials could po-tentially kill 20 percent of the black bear population in Florida — a species that was still considered to be 
threatened three years ago. Twenty percent is an espe-
cially outrageous amount when you consider the ban on bear hunting was implemented for a reason: to pro-tect black bears from becoming threatened again.
What was the point of trying to save black bears 
from extinction if we were only going to threaten their survival once again?
Instead of talking about reinstating the bear-hunt-
ing ban, state ofﬁ  cials should be discussing the reasons why this problem arose in the ﬁ  rst place: Florida’s ir-
responsible overdevelopment. We live in a state that is 
ﬁ  lled with natural beauty, but lawmakers have consis-tently failed to balance the needs of its growing popula-tion with the needs of its wildlife. 
Rather than focusing on smart growth and preserv-
ing natural habitats, Florida has allowed developers to build subdivisions and strip malls anywhere and ev-erywhere they want.
This has undoubtedly affected Florida’s black bears, 
which have been forced to ﬁ  nd new homes every year as residential and commercial developments take over their habitats. According to Reuters, urban sprawl in central Florida has reached areas near and around the 
Ocala National Forest. It’s no surprise that black bears 
have been especially noticeable in this area. 
Where are black bears supposed to go if their habitat 
continues to become smaller and smaller?
Florida’s growing population will only further 
complicate the issue. We just replaced New York as the third most populous state in the country, which is troubling news — not only for the black bears, but also for the state’s seemingly endless list of endangered and 
threatened species.
If you look on the Florida Fish & Wildlife Conser-
vation Commission’s website, you’ll ﬁ  nd a depressing number of animals that are currently classiﬁ  ed as en-
dangered or threatened, including manatees, panthers, 
sea turtles, pelicans and owls. If lawmakers fail to cre-
ate statewide solutions for meeting the current popu-lation and development challenges, we are at risk for 
losing some of the creatures that make Florida unique 
and beautiful.
In order to help preserve Florida as the paradise 
that our parents and grandparents knew it to be, we 
need to demand that state ofﬁ  cials make it a priority to 
preserve the natural habitats we have left and protect 
Florida’s wildlife. They can start by making sure the ban on black bear hunting stays in place.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.Bears shouldn’t 
be punished for problems with 
Fla. development Column
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
Happ/y.end Valentin/e.end’/s.end
Da/y.end!
Happ/y.end Valentin/e.end’/s.end
groups welcome
call for reservations
complimentary champagnewith Special Valentine Dinner
502 S. Main St
352-240-6432 | 5:00pm-10pm
www.warehousedinning.complan your 
Valentine’s Day with us
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
“X” Marks the Spot
Emily Zeilberger, a 20-year-old UF geomatics junior, checks the calibration on a high-precision GPS unit on 
Monday during a data processing exercise for her class. The GPS unit is accurate down to the millimeter.
 THE REVAMPED TEST HAS RESULTED IN MOREFAILURES.
ZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
After more than a month 
of studying, UF student Luis 
Hernandez failed the Florida Department of Motor Vehi-cles written test — twice.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult because 
it’s long and there (are) so many questions, especially with the time limit,” said Hernandez, a 23-year-old 
student at UF’s English Lan-
guage Institute who moved 
to Gainesville from Venezu-ela in October.
Florida unveiled a new 
written test for applicants in 
June 2014, and the DMV im-
posed a 60-minute time limit on the revamped 50-question test on Jan. 5. Since then, the 
DMV has seen more failures 
than normal, said Brittany 
McQuaig, a public informa-tion specialist for the Alachua County Tax Collector’s ofﬁ  ce.
“We have seen people 
coming in and out of the of-ﬁ  ce, and from that we’ve seen an increase in the overall fail-
ure rate,” she said.
McQuaig said she believes 
the new test makes appli-
cants think practically rather than memorize trafﬁ  c signs.
“One of the biggest chang-
es is that the questions are scenario-based,” she said, “whereas before the hand-book could be memorized for 
facts.”
Hernandez, who has en-
rolled at Santa Fe College for 
the upcoming summer, be-lieves the written test is com-plicated and could confuse drivers. 
Combined with the time 
limit, he said it creates an obstacle for those taking the test.
“It’s a very short period of 
time, and I feel very rushed to ﬁ  nish the questions,” he said.
McQuaig attributes the 
new time period on the writ-ten exam to limited resources 
in Alachua County as well as 
the sheer number of appli-
cants the DMV works with daily.
“We have about two test-
ing stations per ofﬁ  ce, so 
that’s six for the entire coun-
ty,” she said. “We think that the reason for the time limit is to regulate, to make sure that 
someone wouldn’t be sitting 
out there for four hours.”
Hernandez, who paid 
$16.25 in administrative and 
state fees for retaking the test, continues to drive without a locally issued license.
“I’m driving with my na-
tive country’s license because I failed the test two times,” he said. “I need to drive and to do certain things, and I can drive with that license.”
McQuaig said she hopes 
that applicants utilize the tax collector’s online website for resources in studying for the written exam.
“(The test) is deﬁ  nitely 
more difﬁ  cult,” she said. “We encourage students to study as much as they can before coming into our ofﬁ  ce. We want new drivers out there, but it’s a great responsibility, which is why they need to study the rules of the road.”  Time limit causing 
applicants to speed through permit test
LOCAL
ERIC HEUBUSCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
had a graphic showing Monday 
night, displaying the horrors of 
sex trafﬁ  cking.
Justice Week 2015 kicked off at 
7 p.m. Monday at the Hippodrome 
with a viewing of “Eden,” a movie 
about a ﬁ  ctional American kid-napped and sold into the sex trade.
From Feb. 2 to Feb. 7, Gators 
Against Human Trafﬁ  cking is 
helping produce events for Jus-
tice Week, started by FIGHT Inc., to create community-wide action 
against sex trafﬁ  cking.
Ambrose Douglas, a UF chemi-
cal engineering sophomore and 
the organization’s president, wrote in an email he believes the week of events will shed light on 
the issue.“Sadly, it is sometimes an over-
looked subject,” Douglas, 19, said. “Bringing people information 
about the causes and prevention 
of human trafﬁ  cking helps keep 
citizens from becoming victims of this crime.”
FIGHT, which stands for Fight 
Injustice and Global Human Traf-
ﬁ  cking, will have an event on each 
day of Justice Week except Friday in order to raise awareness. 
The group’s website said the 
group will be partnering with 
Gators Against Human Trafﬁ  ck-
ing, Gators for Free the Slaves and the UF Chapter of the Internation-al Justice Mission to showcase a montage today on the Plaza of the Americas.
Other events this week include 
discussions at Santa Fe College 
and First Magnitude Brewery on 
Wednesday and Thursday, respec-tively, and the Run Toward Justice 
5K Run/Walk on Saturday.
Before the movie played, 
FIGHT Vice President Jessy John 
set the organization’s intentions for the week.
“We want the Gainesville com-
munity to stand up for those being trafﬁ  cked,” John said.
Ambrose said this week will 
have a positive impact on many 
areas of the community.
“It also helps law enforce-
ment,” he wrote, “because only 
educated citizens have the ability 
to see signs of human trafﬁ  cking 
and inform the proper authori-ties.”Justice Week kicks off with film at 
Hippodrome about human trafﬁ  cking
“Sadly, it is sometimes an 
overlooked subject.”
Ambrose Douglas
Gators Against Human Trafﬁ  cking 
presidentNICOLE GOMEZ
Alligator Staff Writer
Inﬁ  nity Hall has reached its vertical 
limit.
The UF off-campus, ﬁ  ve-story resi-
dence hall hit the halfway point in its 
$24 million construction Friday.
Inﬁ  nity Hall, located at 978 SW Sec-
ond Ave., is structurally complete and set to be ﬁ  nished in July, said Jason Per-ry, senior vice president of Signet Enter-prises, the company that developed and funded the building.
The ﬁ  fth and ﬁ  nal ﬂ  oor’s frame was 
completed Friday. Next on the agenda is ﬁ  nishing the exterior, roof and mechan-
ics. Students will move into the hall this 
Fall.
To celebrate the building milestone, 
Perry said a potted tree was placed on the highest point, a construction tradi-tion called topping out.
“It’s a good way to stop and thank all 
the subcontractors and laborers for their hard work,” Perry said.
Sharon Blansett, assistant to the as-
sociate vice president for student affairs, wrote in an email that Inﬁ  nity Hall will house 312 students, including resident assistants. 
Rental rates are still to be deter-
mined, but she said they should be simi-lar to those of Hume Hall, which cur-rently costs $3,453 to $3,655 per person 
per semester.
The hall will be home to the Entre-
preneurial Living Learning Communi-
ty, but it will be open to students in any major, Blansett said.  
The building will also house “maker-
spaces,” which include a classroom, 3-D printing lab and workspace for students to develop products.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
The south side of Inﬁ  nity Hall is seen Monday from Southwest 
Second Avenue.
 HE STARTED AT UF IN 1989 FOR UNDERGRAD.
ASHLEY PANCOAST
Alligator Contributing Writer
The new chair of the UF 
College of Medicine’s depart-
ment of anesthesiology is for-
ever a Gator.
Dr. Tim-
othy Mo-
rey, interim 
chair since 2013, start-ed his new position as the chair of 
the depart-
ment of anesthesiology Mon-
day — but he’s not new to UF.  
After ﬁ  nishing his un-
dergraduate studies at UF in 1989, he continued on to its medical school then com-pleted his residency at UF Health Shands Hospital. He 
served in various faculty po-
sitions within the college for 18 years.
“Dr. Morey presented an 
exciting vision for the depart-ment and its faculty — one of national preeminence, consistent with and building 
from UF’s campus-wide pre-
eminence journey, and a logi-cal roadmap to get us there,” wrote Dr. Michael Good, dean of the college and a member 
of the search committee for a 
chair, in an email.
There were seven candi-
dates for the position. As the 
new chair, his yearly salary 
will be $525,000.
Morey said a few of his 
goals for the department in-clude expanding the residen-
cy program.
“We’d like to grow the 
four-year program a little bit 
because it is what the students 
want these days,” he said.
He also plans to add more 
anesthesiologists to the de-
partment and work with other departments to make 
research more interdisciplin-
ary, among other things, Mo-rey said.
He said the faculty in the 
college have been positive about his promotion.
“There’s a lot of support 
and welcome,” he said.New anesthesiology 
chair a longtime GatorCAMPUSInﬁ  nity Hall construction half-ﬁ  nished
Morey
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST 
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-122001 Honda Civic EX - 105596 miles - $4670 
Rated "Good Condition" by Kelley Blue 
Book. 1-Owner vehicle. Clean CARFAX. 
Automatic, sun roof... email: shake.off@
gmail.com    2-3-15-3-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-6-14-73-13 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
Uf Beef Unit Needs P/T Farm Help.  
UF/SFe student, or High School sr.  Tractor/
cattle exp. preferred.  Weekends/holidays 
required.  Housing available.  352-538-1401    
2-4-5-14
Operation Catnip has an opening for a full-
time Volunteer Coordinator!Job duties include: recruitment, training, and  supervision, of volunteer workforce. Must be highly organized, comfortable managing un-paid staff and able to work and communicate with diverse stakeholders. Volunteers come from all walks - the local community includes the college of veterinary medicine, university student population of 50k and a county pop-ulation of 250k. Anticipated salary of $26k. Please go to the following link to learn more and to apply for this position:http://sheltermedicine.vetmed.ufl.edu/about-us/employment/position-opening-volunteer-coordinator/     2-6-5-14
Immediate opening for a PT Medical Front Office person. Multi-tasking and accuracy is a MUST! Please email your resume to trc0102@yahoo.com    2-6-15-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Horford’s Hawks 19-game win streak ends
Al Horford saw his Atlanta Hawks’ franchise-record 
19-game win streak come to a close at the hands of the New Orleans Pelicans on Monday night. Dan Quinn heads to Atlanta
Former University of Florida and Seattle Seahawks defensive coordinator Dan Quinn was introduced Tuesday as the newest head coach of the Atlanta Falcons. Dorian Finney-Smith comes from a family with deep basketball ties. Read the story on 
page 14. Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 57-56 win against Arkansas on Saturday in the O’Connell Center.
 UF PLAYS VANDERBILT TONIGHT.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Coach Billy Donovan has watched 
his team struggle more this season than 
most of his former squads.
To Donovan, the struggles they have 
gone through this season are ones they 
need to experience.
It’s part of the process.
“As a coach, I feel a tremendous 
amount of responsibility to help them in their growth,” Donovan said, “and their growth is not just between the lines on the court.”
And that growth begins with finish-
ing what they started.
Whether it is making it down the 
court without coughing up the ball, shooting a jumper or slamming down a dunk, Florida needs to make the most of each opportunity it is given.
And at more times than not this sea-
son, the Gators have been caught slip-ping, especially in the paint.
“That’s going to happen sometimes 
in the games,” Donovan said. “But I think in and around the basket, we’ve got to do a better job of concentrating 
and finishing.”
And to make sure his team finishes 
plays, Donovan is putting his players 
up against the biggest players he has at his disposal.
“We try to put John Egbunu and 
Schuyler Rimmer and Chris Walker at the rim and make our guys drive in there and work on angles and work on 
how to finish those kind of shots,” he 
said.
When Florida (12-9, 5-3 Southeastern 
Conference) takes on Vanderbilt (11-10, 1-7 SEC) tonight at 9 in Nashville, the Gators will need to finish their shots in what some of the players consider a tough road environment.
The Commodores, who have a 9-3 
record at home, are allowing opponents Florida’s struggles part of the process
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Last week, the Gators were motivated.Within an hour of losing to Alabama 
on Jan. 23, a frustrated Florida team re-turned to its hotel in Tuscaloosa. 
No more than 10 minutes had passed 
when senior Kytra Hunter sent a group text telling everyone to meet in coach Rhonda Faehn’s room.
There, Hunter led an open-dialogue 
discussion between all the gymnasts and coaches, trying to determine how they could drastically improve.
“We had 
tears,” Hunt-
er said after 
Friday night’s 
victory over Georgia. “It was a little of mixed emotions … being able to sit there with 13 of your sisters and coming to a conclusion of asking each other ‘What do I need to do more?’”
The meeting proved to be effective, 
leading to what Faehn called the three most spirited training sessions of the season and a convincing performance against Georgia.
And it all started with Hunter, a gym-
nast whom Faehn considers to be a quiet leader who shows more easily than she says.
Often, while the rest of her teammates 
stand around talking and cheering as they wait their turn in an event lineup, 
Hunter stands by herself, alone and un-Kytra Hunter 
rallies team together
RECRUITING
 UF’S RECRUITING CLASS IS 55TH IN THE 
COUNTRY.
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan_Moriarty
Things are starting to drastically heat up on Florida’s re-
cruiting trail with National Signing Day just one day away.Florida received three more verbal commitments on Mon-
day night, with the star of the show being four-star running 
back Jordan Scarlett (5-foot-11, 205 pounds, Fort Lauderdale Fla., St. Thomas Aquinas High).
After decommitting from the Miami Hurricanes on Sun-
day, Scarlett chose Florida over Miami and Florida State on a taped interview segment that was posted on Fox Sports Florida’s website.
“I will be attending the University of Florida. Go Gators,” Scarlett said during the broadcast. 
Scarlett can see the field immediately as a true freshman 
at Florida behind junior tailback Kelvin Taylor and sopho-more Brandon Powell. During his senior season at St. Thomas Aquinas, Scarlett rushed for more than 1,100 yards and ac-counted for 24 touchdowns. In his senior campaign this past fall he averaged 7.9 yards per carry. Scarlett, Williamson highlight trio of recruits to commit to UF MondaySEE HOOPS, PAGE 15SEE GYM, PAGE 15
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 15UF Gymnastics
“If we can get stops we still 
have the opportunity to win.”
Dorian Finney-Smith
UF men’s basketball player
“Kytra has...kinda stepped 
out of her comfort zone and has 
tried to become more of a vocal 
leader.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF Gymnastics coach RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
 When you’re a player at one 
of the elite programs in college 
basketball, everyone’s a critic. 
In Dorian Finney-Smith’s case, 
that’s not just limited to mes-sage boards, Twitter posts and TV analysis — his own mother 
schools him on the finer points of 
the game. 
Desiree Finney-Jones is hard 
on her son — Finney-Smith said she’s as hard as his own coach Billy Donovan.
Finney-Jones’ basketball IQ 
grew out of watching two of her other six children play collegiate basketball — Ben Finney at Old Dominion and Sha-Kiyla Finney 
at Maryland Eastern Shore.
“When my sister played point 
(guard) and my brother played 
shooting guard and I played for-ward, she kind of watched every 
position,” Finney-Smith said. “So 
... when we (were) younger, we’d be in the gym all day cause every-body had to play. So six brothers and sisters had to be in the gym all day.”
Finney-Jones played basket-
ball on the high school level and Finney-Smith describes his mother as a “winner,” saying her frustrations stem from how much Florida has struggled up to this point in the season. 
With each of her hoophead 
kids playing different positions, Finney-Jones gained a wider understanding of the game, and through that, Finney-Smith’s own basketball IQ developed. 
Donovan said Finney-Smith 
is one of the players he can trust 
to play all five positions on the 
court. 
The other player on Florida’s roster that can do that is fellow forward Jacob Kurtz. 
Kurtz and Finney-Smith have 
a special relationship, a bond 
forged because of that mutual 
understanding of the game.
“Yeah, my basketball IQ al-
ways been kind of high you 
know,” Finney-Smith said. “I 
love basketball so I put every-thing in it. As far as Jake, we al-ways talk basketball and I knew he was smart so I always try to 
pick his brain. If I don’t know a 
question and I answer it wrong he’ll be like, ‘Good job Doe-Doe.’”
Finney-Smith and the rest of 
the Gators will have their bas-ketball IQ tested in a tough place — Vanderbilt’s Memorial Gym-nasium, where benches sit on the 
baseline, and for a half, teams are 
a court-length away from their coaches in an environment that can be formidable for Commo-
dore opponents.
“I don’t allow myself to feel 
any pressure,” Finney-Smith 
said. 
“I just go out there with no ex-
pectations, just to play hard. My only expectation is to play hard. And whatever happens, just con-trol everything I can control. If 
the ball goes in, I’m happy. If the 
ball won’t go in, I’m still happy, I still can affect the games other ways.”14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith drives into the paint during Florida’s 57-56 win against Arkansas on Saturday in 
the O’Connell Center.
BASKETBALL
Finney-Smith getting feedback from his first mentor — his mom
“I don’t allow myself 
to feel any pressure. I 
just go out there with 
no expectations, just to 
play hard. And whatever 
happens, just control 
everything I can control.”
Dorian Finney-Smith
UF basketball player
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer@Graham311
Florida finally got the quality road win 
it has been searching for.
A day removed from Florida’s 67-58 
victory at Vanderbilt, coach Amanda But-
ler was optimistic heading into the team’s second mid-week break of Southeastern Conference play.
With a full week break before the 
Gators women’s basketball team takes on 
No. 6 Tennessee in the O’Connell Center 
on Sunday, Butler is hoping the team uses the rest to its advantage.After an embarrassing yet expected 
loss to No. 1 South Carolina on Jan. 19, the Gators got some well-deserved rest, earn-ing several days off after Butler told the 
team to stay away from the gym and relax 
their minds and bodies.
The hiatus from 
the basketball court paid off, as Florida 
returned to the 
floor with a 72-58 drumming of Ar-
kansas that featured a rejuvenated roster 
from top to bottom.
Butler is hoping that the break gives the 
Gators the needed kick to push through 
the final slate of games — a schedule that has Florida playing five of its final seven 
games against ranked opponents.
“We’ve gotta make the rest important,” 
Butler said. “I’ve said all year long that 
practice has been great, just fantastic ef-
fort in practice. We had our first bye week 
going into Arkansas where we had great preparation, we played one of our better ball games. That’s what we have to do this week.”
Defeating Vanderbilt might not have 
been possible without the surging play of redshirt senior Kayla Lewis. 
After a slow start to the season, Lewis’ 
production has increased as of late. 
The forward scored 18 points and 
grabbed 11 rebounds, four on the offen-sive end, against the Commodores. 
Lewis now leads the Gators in re-
bounding (7.2 per game) and is tied with the team-lead in scoring with sophomore Ronni Williams (9.8 points per game).
“Kayla Lewis was just absolutely a war-
rior in every aspect,” Butler said. 
“A great leader for us and I think the 
rest of the team did a great job of following her lead.”
With the team struggling thus far in the 
deep SEC, Butler said Lewis realized how critical her play is to the team. She’s in-creased her intensity, doing whatever she 
can to push the team forward.
“I think Kayla has sometimes been Kay-
la’s biggest limiting factor throughout her 
career,” Butler said. “I think now she’s re-ally sensing the urgency of being a senior, 
sensing the urgency of where our team is 
and how much we need her to be at her best. I think she’s really adopting a war-rior’s mentality in how she can help our 
team win.”
For the Gators’ offense to be success-
ful, the guards must attack the paint while 
also looking to feed the ball to the post in case their lane to the basket is cut off. 
Butler said dominating in the paint is 
the key to Florida’s success.
“Our guards are doing a great job of un-
derstanding that paint battle,” Butler said. 
“Getting the ball in Kayla’s hands, get-
ting the ball in Haley’s hands. I think our team has a really good awareness of what we have to do, and like I said the paint has to be won.”Kayla Lewis revitalizes Florida offense in win over Vanderbilt
UF W omen’s 
Bask etball
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Kayla Lewis dribbles during Florida’s 68-52 loss to Missouri on Thursday in the O’Connell 
Center. Lewis recorded a double-double in UF’s win against Vanderbilt on Sunday.
The redshirt senior recorded a double-doubleFour-star cornerback 
Chris Williamson (6-foot, 
185 pounds, Gainesville, Ga., Gainesville High) also commit-ted to UF on Monday over Cal 
Berkeley, UNC and Michigan.
He’s the No. 36-ranked cor-
nerback in the country, accord-
ing to Rivals.com and joins Florida’s roster deep with cor-nerbacks that include Vernon Hargreaves III, Brian Poole, Jalen Tabor, Quincy Wilson and J.C. Jackson.
Earlier in the day, safety 
Kylan Johnson (6-foot-3, 202 pounds, Dallas, Skyline High) announced that he was verbal-ly committed to Florida early Monday evening. 
He had previously com-
mitted to play at Kansas State, where he verbally committed last Thursday.  
Johnson is listed as an ath-
lete/safety on Rivals.com, but will likely land at safety at UF. 
The current safety corps is 
highlighted by junior Keanu Neal, redshirt sophomores 
Marcell Harris and Nick 
Washington, and true sopho-more Duke Dawson. Marcus Maye also returns as a redshirt junior for 2015.
Florida’s recruiting class 
is now ranked No. 55 in the country, according to Rivals.com. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kytra Hunter performs on the uneven parallel bars during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against 
Georgia on Friday in the O’Connell Center.
Hunter transitioning into a vocal leader in her senior year
distracted as she heightens her fo-
cus for the routine.
But when she steps on the com-
petition floor, every one of her teammates can see the fire and 
dedication with which she com-
petes.
As a senior, however, Hunter 
has taken strides to broaden her leadership skills, and Faehn has taken notice.
“Kytra has, I feel - especially 
this year - kinda stepped out of her comfort zone and has tried to 
become more of a vocal leader,” 
Faehn said.
“I think that (initiating the 
meeting) shows, again, that she has grown tremendously, and that it also shows her intense passion and desire.”
The question for Faehn now be-
comes how to maintain that level 
of desire which the team displayed 
all last week.
Motivation comes easily after a 
loss.
But complacency comes just as 
easily after a win.
Even after their best score of 
the season, though, Faehn said the gymnasts have already been re-
viewing video footage from Friday 
to pinpoint deficiencies they can work on this week.Another motivating factor is 
Florida’s impending road trip to 
No. 8 Arkansas this Friday.
The last time the Gators went 
on the road, they were unable to 
cope with the hostile environment, leading to the aforementioned tear-stricken meeting.
This time, they will be look-
ing to prove they can handle the adverse conditions, and Faehn is 
doing what she can to strengthen 
their mental toughness.
“Just continued pressure sets,” 
Faehn said about what the team will be doing this week to prepare. “Really putting the athletes under pressure. I always like to speak with them one-on-one, and when we talk about analyzing what their 
performance was like, what they 
were thinking about during the performance, what they’re going to be focusing on this next week, they’re very honest about it so it’s good, it’s a good learning process.”
But Hunter’s mental toughness 
needs no strengthening.
She was one of the lone bright 
spots against Alabama, and im-mediately after the victory against Georgia, her focus turned to the task ahead.
“We still have a long way to 
go,” Hunter said Friday. “This is just the start.”GYM , from page 13MEN’S GOLF
 UF IS IN THIRD PLACE AS A TEAM.
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII       
 A.J. Crouch is making a habit of being at the top 
of the leaderboard.
After winning the individual title at the Florida 
Gulf Coast Invitational in the final tournament in 
the fall, Crouch now finds himself in first place after the opening day of the Sea Best Invitational at TPC Sawgrass’ Dye Valley Course.
After 36 holes, the Jacksonville native is 1-under-
par and holds a three-shot lead over North Caroli-
na’s Ben Griffin and Coastal Carolina’s Ben Wheeler 
entering the final 18 holes of play today. 
Coach J.C. Deacon said Crouch has made strides 
not in only in his golf game, but in his personal life as well.
“I’m just so happy for him as a person,” Deacon 
said in a release. “He’s come so, so far, just as a hu-man being. He’s a lot happier, he’s getting along really well with the guys and he’s having a good 
time. His success on the golf course is coming along 
with that.”
As a team, Florida is in third place at 28-over par. 
UF is four shots behind leader No. 12 North Caro-
lina and one shot behind rival No. 2 Florida State.
Senior Eric Banks, who is competing in the tour-
nament as an individual, is in a tie for fourth place at 3-over-par.
Fellow senior J.D. Tomlinson sits in a tie for 16th 
after posting a score of 7-over-par. Newcomer Ale-
jandro Tosti is 10-over-par, while sophomore Ryan 
Orr is at 12-over. 
Freshman Ryan Celano rounds out the UF lineup 
with a score of 15-over-par.
Deacon knows the team has a chance to win the 
tournament.
“We’re in the final group again, and that’s where 
you want to be,” Deacon said. “We have a chance to win, and that’s what our goal is.”Crouch leading at Sea Best Invitational
RECRUIT , 
from page 13UF has 16 commits
The Commodores lead the SEC in three-point shooting this season
to make just 39.7 percent of their shots in 
Memorial Gym this season.
Add in the fact that Vanderbilt is mak-
ing an SEC-best 37.1-percent of its three-pointers and has four players who have hit at least 19 three-pointers and are mak-
ing at least 36.3 percent of their shots from 
downtown, and the Commodores can make for a tough matchup tonight.
“We’ll get in there and we’ll have plen-
ty of time with shoot-around and those type of things to get acclimated to the place,” Donovan said. “There were some guys who played there last year, so there 
is some familiarity. I think we’ll have plen-ty of time to prepare and get used to the 
building.”
But while Vanderbilt has been success-
ful at limiting opponents from scoring while at home, Florida has found ways to 
eek by its opponents even when its shots 
aren’t falling.
The Gators are 3-3 this season when 
making less than 40 percent of their bas-kets.
“Defense wins games,” redshirt ju-
nior Dorian Finney-Smith said. “No mat-ter how good or bad we shoot, if we can get stops we still have the opportunity to 
win.”
The last time Florida played Vanderbilt 
on the road, Finney-Smith broke out of a shooting slump to lead the Gators to a 57-
54 victory.
The forward scored a game-high 19 
points on 6-of-11 shooting in addition to grabbing nine rebounds.
“I remember my teammates and the coaching staff, they stayed on me about staying aggressive. … They built con-fidence in me, even when I didn’t have confidence in myself,” Finney-Smith said. “And that’s powerful. And when I hit 
them shots last year, it felt good.”
HOOPS , from page 13
WHERE : Memorial Gym (Nashville, Tennessee)
WHEN : 9 p.m.
TV: ESPN
SERIES RECORD : Vanderbilt leads 64-62 UF IS STARTING ITS FIRST 
SEASON IN THE BIG EAST CONFERENCE.
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
After five successful years of 
playing in the American Lacrosse 
Conference, Florida lacrosse is 
taking its talents to the Big East 
to join one of the most competi-tive conferences in women’s col-lege lacrosse.
The Gators, ranked No. 3 
heading into the regular season, are excited to begin their 2015 campaign after a long offseason. 
The new affiliate member of 
the Big East has already been picked to win the conference in the preseason coaches poll. 
Florida received seven of eight 
first-place votes. The only vote it didn’t receive was its own – coaches can’t vote for their own team.
The Big East is made up of 
eight total teams, including No. 17 Georgetown, Cincinnati and Connecticut. 
After winning four regular-
season titles as a member of the ALC in the last five years, the Gators are looking forward to the challenge of joining a new confer-ence.
“This is a great conference,” 
coach Amanda O’Leary said. “Georgetown is a top-ranked team across the board, Vander-
bilt, that’s another team we’ve 
played every single year, so this is a wonderful conference for us to be a part of.”
Aside from its conference games, Florida faces a daunting 2015 schedule, with six of its op-ponents being ranked in the In-side Lacrosse Preseason Poll top 
20, including Maryland, North 
Carolina and Syracuse, ranked No. 1, 2 and 4 respectively. 
And the Gators aren’t wasting 
any time getting adjusted to the new season — they host the Tar Heels on Saturday in Florida’s season opener.
“It’s great for us, it will cer-
tainly show where we are,” O’Leary said. “Last year, we had a tough game against (UNC), so hopefully this year we’ll be a lit-tle more prepared.”
The “tough game” O’Leary re-
ferred to was a 20-8 loss to UNC in Florida’s season opener last year, in Chapel Hill, North Caro-lina, one of only two regular sea-
son losses for the Gators. Satur-
day’s game will be the Tar Heels’ first ever trip to Gainesville.
With such a challenging sea-
son ahead of it, Florida will rely 
on its deep, talented roster to 
lead the way. That all starts with senior midfielder Shannon Gil-roy, who led the nation with 86 goals last year and led the Gators in points, goals, assists, draw 
controls, free-position goals and 
caused turnovers. 
She is one of Florida’s leader 
on offense and the Gators will 
need her at full strength in each 
and every game.
That’s not to say that Gilroy 
runs the show for Florida, how-ever. The Gators will also look to 
players such as senior midfielder 
Nora Barry, sophomore defender Caroline Fitzgerald and sopho-more attacker Sammi Burgess for strong contributions this season. 
All four have already been 
named to the preseason Big East First Team.
“We’re a young team still, but 
I think, more than ever, we are 
deep with depth,” O’Leary said. 
“Just something very different for us, to have the ability to play a lot of different players.”
With 10 returning starters 
from a team that made it to the NCAA quarterfinals last sea-son, Florida can’t wait to get its season underway on Saturday 
in what will be a great match 
against North Carolina.
“I think there’s a sense of an-
ticipation and excitement to get this season started,” O’Leary 
said. “I think (the players) are 
really excited to have somebody to push and hit other than them-selves and each other.”
16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Midfielder Shannon Gilroy looks to shoot during Florida’s 18-7 win against High Point last season at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
LACROSSE
Florida ready to start new season in new conference
Key Players 
returning to UF 
lacrosse in 2015
Sammi Burgess — attackerNora Barry — midfielderShannon Gilroy — midfielderCaroline Fitzgerald — defenderMary-Sean Wilcox — 
goalkeeper