We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 108 ISSUE 122 MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
UF gymnastics ﬁ  nishes third 
at SECs
The Gators started strong before falling 
on the balance beam, pg 14
Selma protester speaks at march recreation
Civil rights activist Joe Jones spoke at the UF Law event, pg5
Pop-up store gives homeless clothing options 
The store closed early after the initial morning rush, pg8ONLINE
Go to alligator.org to see our video tour and chat with the owners of one of the homes on the Gainesville Modern Weekend house tour. See the story on page 5.
Emily Cardinali / Alligator Staff
Rob Castellucci, co-founder of RoomSync and a co-founder of the Gator Salsa Club, proposes to his girlfriend after the end of his 
talk at TEDxUF on Saturday. “I would go on for a thousand more reasons, but I’m pretty sure my 18 minutes is almost up, ” Castel-lucci said. “Will you marry me?” 
CAMPUS
SANTA FEBy Carla Vianna 
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
It was a packed house. 
Red “TEDx” letters sat on the stage 
of the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts on Saturday morning as about 1,000 
participants moved their Trader Joe’s gift bags aside and took their seats. 
“Without further adieu, let’s break 
through,” said Sean Treiser, MC and event co-curator, alluding to this year’s theme.
The sixth annual TEDxUF — the larg-
est of its kind in the Southeast — featured eight local speakers ranging from a salsa 
dancer to a computer scientist.
TEDx events are based on TED con-
ferences but independently organized by 
members in the community. The event is 
the brainchild of the UF Center for Entre-
preneurship and Innovation and is run by students in the UF TEDxUF club, said Erin Meisenzahl-Peace, director of public rela-tions and design for the conference.
This year’s theme focused on breaking 
through.
“Either how they break through some 
problem in their life or a breakthrough 
they had in science,” Meisenzahl-Peace 
said.
The conference also featured interac-
tive labs showcasing innovative solar pan-els and 3-D printing, among other projects.
The speaker series began with Jill Son-
ke, director of the UF Center for Arts in  TEDxUF focuses on breakthroughs in art, science
SEE TEDXUF,  PAGE 4
By Cresonia Hsieh
Alligator Contributing Writer
As UF medical students anxiously 
waited in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to learn where they would 
be spending their residency 
training, Ryan Meral was wor-rying for two.
Meral, a fourth-year UF 
medical student, was one of more than 120 participants in the UF Col-lege of Medicine’s annual Match Day on Friday, which revealed the results of the National Resident Matching Program.
The program matches students from 
155 of the country’s medical schools to residencies across the country, where fourth-year students train to enter the workforce.
University of Michigan was not only 
Meral’s ﬁ  rst-choice hospital, but it was 
also his ﬁ  ancee’s.
Meral and Kimberley Lev-
itt, a fourth-year medical stu-dent at USF, have been in a long-distance relationship for the past four years. 
The couple is getting married in May 
and found out Friday that Michigan will be their new home.
Remembering horrible shifts and late-M ed students successfully 
matched with residencies
SEE MATCH,  PAGE 4VOTING LASTS UNTIL 
WEDNESDAY.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Government elec-
tions begin today.
Four candidates are running in the elec-
tions — Conor Flynn and Hannah Gwynn for 
Student Body president and vice president 
respectively, and Justin Deese and Timothy 
Bergman for Student Government treasurer.
No one is running for chief justice, so the 
position will be left vacant after Elana Gold leaves ofﬁ  ce April 15.
Students can vote for candidates in the S 
building today and the P building Tuesday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Gold said. The Wednes-day voting location, which will close at 3:30 p.m., will be decided based on which voting station draws the best turnout. 
At the voting stations, students will use 
computers to vote. Students can also vote through their eSantaFe accounts from home.
The election results will be announced at 
Wednesday night’s Senate meeting. Senators will have the opportunity to nominate candi-dates for student Senate president, pro-tempo-re, secretary, parliamentarian and sergeant at arms.
Despite a plea for candidates by Senate 
President Jeremy Pierce, no senators have publicly expressed interest in running for Sen-ate president or secretary. 
Secretary Matthew Fernandez said he will 
be nominating himself for pro-tempore this Wednesday.
The elected ofﬁ  cials won’t take ofﬁ  ce until 
April 15 after being sworn in at Senate.  Santa Fe elections start today
CAMPUSWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Arrive Alive’s drunk/distracted 
driving simulator
Nightlife Navigators is bringing UNITE’s Arrive Alive Tour 2015 to UF’s campus today. From 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas, students can take part in a drunk and distracted driving educational program. The Arrive Alive program includes a high-tech simulator, impact video and a number of other resources to educate the public about the dan-gers of drunk driving and texting 
while driving. The simulator al-
lows students to experience the potential consequences of drunk and distracted driving in a con-trolled environment.
Vote to Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest videos are up on the STRIVE 
Facebook page and awaiting 
your views! Check out all three and like your favorites. Videos are awarded points in the Fan Favorites category of judging based on Facebook likes at face-book.com/STRIVEUF/videos.
‘After Innocence’ film showing
Gainesville Citizens for Alternatives to the Death Penalty will air the 95-minute film “After Innocence” tonight at 7 p.m. in the lounge at St. Augustine’s Catholic Church and Student Center, located at 1738 W. University Ave. The film follows the story of seven men, includ-
ing one from Florida, who were 
wrongfully convicted and spent years in prison for crimes they did not commit. The public views exonerations as success stories — wrongs that have been righted. The film reveals the human toll 
of wrongful imprisonment can 
last far longer than the sentence. Film is followed by refreshments and discussion. For more infor-mation, email gtdiller@ufl.edu.
World War I Sheet Music 
Collection Exhibit Open in Smathers Library Gallery
The George A. Smathers Libraries 
will present When Uncle Sammy Leads the Band, an exhibition of items from the Bernard S. Parker World War I Sheet Music Collection. On view through May 8, this exhibition pays tribute to the music industry during World War I. Bernard S. Parker, noted 
historian, educator and author 
of the two-volume “World War I Sheet Music,” donated his ex-tensive collection of vintage sheet music to the Popular Culture Collections at UF in 2011. An opening reception will be held to-day from 2 to 3 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100.
Fracking Documentary Coming to 
High SpringsOur Santa Fe River, along with Food and Water Watch and Physicians for Social Responsibility will show “Groundswell Rising,” a film that examines the dangers of frack-
ing. After the film, Craig Stevens, 
whose Pennsylvania community has seen the devastation that the fracking industry can have, will talk about what could await Florida’s residents if fracking moves forward in the state. Free to the public, it will air Tuesday at High Springs Civic Center, lo-cated at 330 Santa Fe Blvd. Doors 
open at 6:30 p.m., and the film 
begins at 7 p.m.
Free Tie-Dye
On Wednesday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas, STRIVE will help the first 100 visitors craft a tie-dye tank or T-shirt so you can promote the 
upcoming Take Back the Night 
March and Rally to End Sexual Violence. Write your reason for marching, snap a pic, upload to social media and then fold, band and dye. Wear your tie-dye to the march and rally on April 1, from 6 to 9 p.m. on Norman Field to show your support for survivors 
and for ending sexual violence. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an 
email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alliga-tor.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or few-er. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 107 ISSUE 122
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  81° LOW  57°
MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
UF TO WRITE LOVE ON 
HER ARMS CHAPTER 
HOSTED THE EVENT.
By Moriah Gaynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 30 people gathered Satur-
day night for the To Write Love On 
Her Arms’ UF chapter’s benefit con-cert.
The organization hosted its an-
nual benefit concert “Living Stories,” filling the Civic Media Center with song, poetry and a sense of support.
“We try to be a community,” 
said Devin Ross, chapter president and UF health science senior. “We try to be open and accepting and let people know that there are people who care.”
The 22-year-old said that for the 
past four years, the organization has conducted an annual benefit show to help bring out local talent and unite the community. However, she said the shows serve a larger purpose, which is to help encourage conver-sation about some of society’s larg-est taboos: suicide and depression.
“I think we start conversations 
here, or at least our goal is to start conversations,” Ross said.
Artists included local songwriter, 
Moose; Gainesville hip-hop duo, False Flag; and California artist, SuN-Whoa Love.
“For me, a big thing that helped 
me was my expression,” SuNWhoa Love said. “Being able to express myself freed me.”
Love, 26, said he dealt with simi-
lar issues in the past and that for 
him, expressing himself through his 
music and religion helped him.
“Hope comes in the morning, 
new life comes in the morning,” Love said. “You are loved complete-ly, you are valued completely and somebody will speak to you. Please express yourself.”Anti-suicide group
holds benefit concert
Courtesy to the Alligator
T erry Wissel (left), known by his stage name T. Wissel, performs alongside California-based artist 
Courtney Linsey, known by his stage name SuNWhoa Love, in the Civic Media Center on Saturday night. The pair performed for T o Write Love On Her Arms’ annual benefit “Living Stories” concert.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
Cresonia Hsieh / Alligator
Paul Skelton, a fourth-year UF medical student, embraces his mother, Dr. Nadine Skelton, after finding 
out the National Resident Matching Program results at the UF College of Medicine annual Match Day. Skelton was matched at UF for internal medicine, his first-choice residency program.
CAMPUS
NICOLE GOMEZ
Alligator Staff Writer
ngomez@alligator.org
President Barack Obama strolled 
past UF student Kiona Elliott in the 
White House courtyard.
It was the 2013 White House Sci-
ence Fair, and she stood next to the 
bicycle-powered water-filtration sys-
tem she and her high school team had developed.
She invited him to hop on and try 
it. He did, and she explained to him how his pedaling provided energy to the device.“I still can’t believe that I had the 
opportunity to meet him, ” she said. “I’ll see him on TV , or I’ll read an ar -
ticle about him, and it hits me really randomly that I’ve met him and I’ve shaken his hand. It’s crazy. ”
For this and other accomplish-
ments, the 20-year-old horticultural science sophomore has been named 
a 2015 Y oung Futurist by The Root, 
an African-American news, opinion and culture website.
The site selected 25 people 
around the U.S. between the ages of 16 and 22 who have shown lead-ership in their communities. Tafari John-King, a 2014 Y oung Futurist she met at the Aspen Ideas Festival, nominated Elliott.
After graduating from Northeast 
High School in Oakland Park, El-liott went on to found S.T.E.A.M. Academy, a UF student organization dedicated to solving global problems with science, technology, engineer -
ing, art, math and compassion.The club chooses a different chal-
lenge to focus its projects on each year, she said. This year’s is world 
hunger and food insecurity.
Elliott said the hardest part of 
her work is finding balance between 
her academic and extracurricular re-sponsibilities.
“I tend to stretch myself too thin 
by getting involved with a bunch of things, ” she said.
Elliott said she plans to research 
ways to improve food production and quality in graduate school after getting her bachelor’s degree from 
UF.
Dana Bigham, the faculty adviser 
for S.T.E.A.M. Academy, said she 
thinks Elliott deserves the Y oung Fu-turists recognition because she is a strong and compassionate leader.
“She truly wants to have an im-
pact in the world, ” Bigham said, “and she works her hardest in every 
avenue of everything she does to do 
t h a t .”
UF student awarded Young Futurist by popular website  
“She truly wants to have an impact in the world, and she works her 
hardest in every avenue of everything she does to do that.”
Dana Bigham
S. T.E.A.M. faculty adviser
night study sessions, Meral and 
Levitt were each other’s inspira-tions to make it through school.
“I’m bringing my teammate to 
Michigan with me,” Levitt said. “It’s kind of the start of our fairy tales.”
The day was met with tears, 
hugs and squeals of joy.
Of the 121 successful residen-
cy placements, students were ac-cepted to hospitals such as Stan-ford University, Duke University, the Mayo Clinic, Emory Univer-
sity, Georgetown University and, 
of course, UF.
Paul Skelton, a fourth-year UF 
medical student, had been hop-
ing to complete his residency in 
internal medicine at UF.
“I really wanted to stay here 
at UF,” Skelton said, “and when I 
opened that envelope, it was like 
a dream come true.”
Dr. Patrick Duff, the associate 
dean for student affairs, has at-tended more than 15 Match Days 
during his time at UF. 
He said the match process has become more difficult each year 
because of the increasing number 
of medical school graduates in 
the U.S. and in countries around the world.
He said it was a successful 
Match Day. 
It was the first time a UF stu-
dent had been accepted into a residency program for cardio-thoracic surgery, and more un-
derrepresented minorities were 
matched than in recent years, he said.
Everyone who applied in the 
competitive areas of neurosur-gery and radiation oncology also matched up with a residency, Duff said.
Dr. Nadine Skelton, Paul Skel-
ton’s mother and a doctor of in-ternal medicine, also received her undergraduate degree from UF. 
She said she screamed, 
jumped and hugged him when she heard the news.
“It was not an easy road,” she 
said. “We’re very proud of him, 
of all the work he has done, and 
especially of the young man he has become.”MATCH,  from pg 1More than 100 UF students were successfully matched Friday
Medicine. 
During her talk, a photo of a hospital bed 
flashed behind her.
She asked the audience to imagine being 
admitted to that room and having an artist in residence walk in. With a guitar strung across his shoulder, a musician sauntered 
on stage and began singing “Moon River.” 
“Art changes us,” Sonke said. “Medicine 
can do extraordinary things today. And 
with the arts, it can do more.” 
Lauren Troffer, a 22-year-old UF micro-
biology senior, said she enjoyed Sonke’s talk the most. 
“It was really interesting, especially how 
art can help heal people better than medi-
cine can,” Troffer said.
Vivian Filer spoke about breaking out of 
her sidewalks, a metaphor she used to illus-
trate the racial segregation she faced grow-ing up in Gainesville.
She said during her talk that she would hear her mother’s voice in her head: “Learn to stay in your place.”
“Until one day, I didn’t hear my moth-
er’s voice so clearly,” Filer said, and her role in the women’s and civil rights move-
ments began.
Other speakers included Michael Morris, 
academic director for the Center for Entre-
preneurship and Innovation; Mac Stone, a 
conservation photographer; Juan Gilbert, 
a computer scientist and researcher; Chris 
Hass, an associate professor in the UF De-partment of Applied Physiology and Kinesi-ology and Ann Christiano, a UF public rela-tions professor.
Although spanning diverse subjects, 
each talk gave its audience a glimpse of what it’s like to break through.TEDXUF,  from pg 1One of the speakers talked about combination of art, science
The most memorable moment 
of TEDxUF came at the end of Rob 
Castellucci’s talk.
Castellucci — co-founder of 
RoomSync, a roommate matching service, and a founder of the Gator Salsa Club — began with a mini sal-sa performance between him and a woman in red. 
Castellucci shared how salsa 
dancing helped him work through a heartbreak.
“I would come back from a night 
of salsa sweaty and alive, ” Castel-lucci said. “When you find some-thing that makes you that happy, do that thing as often as you can. ”
At the end, the same woman in 
red, whom he had met at a salsa dancing event two years prior, walked onto the stage.
Rather than twirl her around, 
this time Castellucci kneeled down on one knee.
“Honey, we met on the dance 
floor two years, seven months and four days ago, ” he said.
“I would go on for a thousand 
more reasons, but I’m pretty sure my 18 minutes is almost up. Will you marry me?” 
She said yes.A TEDxUF LOVE STORY
“Art changes us. Medicine can do 
extraordinary things today. And with 
the arts, it can do more.”
Jill Sonke
TEDxUF speakerMONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Jam Slam
Angela “Angrilla, ” Martin skates around a bend during the Swamp City 
Sirens’ opener 217-222 loss against against the Sarasota Rolling Ren-egades on the Alachua County Fairgrounds on Sunday evening. 
By Briana Lirio
Alligator Contributing Writer
The civil rights activist ap-
proached the lectern and faced a si-
lent crowd Saturday. 
“The day we marched we had no 
idea we were going to get a beating,” 
he said.
Joe Jones marched with Martin 
Luther King Jr. from Selma to Mont-gomery in 1965 in the Bloody Sun-
day protest that resulted in 26 pro-testers being shot. He came to UF to participate in the Gator Law Ameri-can Civil Liberties Union’s recreation of the march. 
“Together we came up with the 
idea for the rally where we could give diverse student and community organizations a platform to speak out about the civil rights issues that are most important to them,” wrote Ben Silva, president of Gator Law ACLU, in an email. 
Jones spoke about his experienc-
es in the civil rights movement at the peace rally held after the event.
“When we got to the bridge,” he 
said, “that is when they threw tear gas on us…they beat us with ham-mers, whatever they had.”
Nadine Louis, a 21-year-old UF 
theatre junior, said she was there on 
behalf of LGBT Affairs to show sup-
port. She said she enjoyed seeing old and new faces and felt the diversity brought out a sense of humanity to the event.
Jones recounted the moment 
Amelia Boynton Robinson was nearly beaten to death by police of-ficers, but she is currently living at 103 years old. 
“The main thing is nonviolence,” 
Jones said. “If we would have fought back we wouldn’t have made it. Thank God we made it off the bridge.”
Civil rights activist speaks at UF Law’s Selma recreation
CAMPUS
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
The Committee on Finance and Facilities dis-
cussed UF’s ongoing construction projects at a brief 
meeting Friday in preparation of the Board of Trust-
ee’s next meeting, which will take place April 2-3.
Committee chairman Jason Rosenberg said at the 
meeting, which lasted about 15 minutes, that all of 
UF’s major construction projects are on schedule and 
within budget at the meeting.
The five major construction projects so far are 
projected to cost just under $200 million. The univer-
sity has about $245 million allotted to the projects.
Rosenberg said projects are allowed a couple 
weeks of wiggle room in terms of a completion date, 
but there have been no issues so far.
“There have been no significant delays on any 
particular project,” Rosenberg said.
The committee also had preliminary discussions 
on the 2015-16 transportation and parking auxiliary budget, which is projected to have $10.5 million of expenses. The budget estimates there will be just more than $21 million in total revenues available.
Rosenberg said because the Board of Governors 
did not specify a method to determine reserve funds in the budget, the committee is relying on studies from Walker Parking Consultants to determine how much money to maintain in reserve accounts.
“We can also build our reserves further if we an-
ticipate additional construction needs or other facil-ity issues,” Rosenberg said.The budget, submitted by Vice President for Busi-
ness Affairs Curtis Reynolds, will be discussed in greater detail at the April 2 meeting. UF is right on the money: All 
campus construction on schedule 
LOCAL
By Cresonia Hsieh
Alligator Contributing Writer
This weekend’s third annual Gainesville 
Modern Weekend saw an increase in event 
participants.
Gainesville Modern and the UF Historical 
Preservation Program, along with Alachua 
Habitat for Humanity, hosted the event, which 
raised about $1,000 for the nonprofit. The event was meant to preserve and promote mid-century modern architecture — houses made in the mid-1940s to ‘60s that feature walls of glass and low-hanging roofs, said Gainesville Modern Executive Director David Forest.
“It encourages people to, instead of custom building a home out of prefabricated materials, to maybe think about history as something that applies to their own lives,” said Jessica Tay-lor, a member of the UF Historic Preservation Program.
Constructed with walls of glass, 33-foot-
long wood beams and redwood, the most no-table house was designed by former UF archi-tecture professor Harry Merritt.
Although Forest said the house is consid-
ered a modern architectural gem, the 3105 SW Fifth Court building has only ever been a home for Nicholas and Elayne Cassisi.
The Merritt house was where the couple 
studied through medical school. It’s where they raised three children, welcomed their grandchildren and, as Gainesville residents of 43 years, plan to spend the rest of their lives.       
Elayne said that sometimes she gets tired of 
the upkeep, but whenever anything happens, her husband is always out there doing his best to mend the situation.
“Anything to keep her here,” Nick Cassisi 
said, smiling with his arm around his wife.GNV programs host mid-century architecture showcaseBy The Associated Press
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. — The search for a missing 3-year-old 
boy ended Friday when the child’s body was discovered in a Florida home in what police called an “obscured” location.
Hollywood Police Chief Frank Fernandez offered few details 
during a Friday morning news conference that followed a mas-sive search by multiple law enforcement agencies for Ahizya Osceola. He didn’t say whether any suspects had been identi-fied, but he said the parents are cooperating with police.
A criminal investigation is underway at the home where the 
boy lived with his father, Nelson Osceola.
The two other children who had been living in the home 
have been removed by the Broward Sheriff’s Office Child Pro-tective Investigations Section, the Florida Department of Chil-
dren and Families reported.
Officials have investigated four incidents regarding Ahizya in the past two years, according to DCF records. The first two 
occurred with the child’s mother, prompting the boy and oth-er children to be removed from her custody in January 2014. While in his father’s custody, investigations in April 2014 and February 2015 didn’t find evidence of physical injury.
The police were notified of the missing child just before 
noon Thursday.
The child’s body was taken to the medical examiner’s office 
Friday morning.Boy, 3, found dead in ‘obscured’ location in Florida home“If we would have fought back we 
wouldn’t have made it. Thank 
God we made it off the bridge.”
Joe Jones
civil rights activist
UF construction projects
Chemistry/Chemical Biology Build -
ing:  $66,600,000; Projected completion: 
May/June 2016
Reitz Union expansion and renova -
tion:  $74,700,783; Projected completion: 
Fall 2015
Cypress Hall:  $21,900,000; Projected 
completion: June 2015
Harrell Medical Education Building: 
$45,419,000; Projected completion: July 
2015
Indoor football practice facility: 
$15,000,000; Projected completion: Sep-tember 2015
T o view the full budget: trustees.ufl.edu/media/
trusteesufledu/documents/Committee-on-
Finance-and-Facilities.pdf
“It encourages people to, instead 
of custom building a home out of 
prefabricated materials, to maybe think 
about history as something that applies 
to their own lives,”
Jessica T aylor
member, UF Historic Preservation ProgramThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Trans bathroom bill 
comes from hatred, 
contempt 
Tonight on campus, LGBT Affairs is hosting a vigil for 
the thousands of trans women who lose their lives to violent hatred annually.
In Tallahassee, lawmakers are putting forward a 
bill that would legalize discrimination against trans 
people in our state.
The law is similar to many others moving through state 
legislatures across the country, laws which would restrict access to bathrooms based on biological sex. 
Anyone who uses a bathroom designated for people “of 
the other biological sex” would face jail time and fines if this law passes.
The bathroom bill was created by Rep. Frank Artiles, R-
Miami, reacting to a Miami-Dade County rule passed in 2014 that bans discrimination based on gender identity.
What makes this bill problematic is that it uses sex as-
signed at birth. 
As anyone who’s taken an entry-level sociology class 
knows, biological sex and gender identity don’t always match up. 
In order to avoid jail or fines, trans people would have to 
have gone through sex reassignment surgery and have their government IDs updated. 
Because sex reassignment surgery is often prohibitively 
expensive, they’d have to use the bathroom consistent with 
their sex assigned at birth — becoming the proverbial “man 
in the women’s restroom” Artiles claims he’s trying to stop. 
So, the law essentially leaves trans people who need a 
spot to pee when they’re out in public with three choices: get surgery, serve jail time or keep your government papers on 
you in case you drank too much water before you left home. 
The bathroom bill, then, would have the effect of making 
criminals out of trans people simply for existing. So much 
for small government.
Artiles and his supporters in this endeavor believe the bill 
opens up loopholes and threatens public safety. 
They claim its intent is to fix these loopholes, offering 
lurid tales of men entering women’s bathrooms and “trans-boys” changing in a varsity swim team’s locker room. 
In their minds, Miami-Dade County has put women and 
children in danger with an illegitimate anti-discrimination law.
Perhaps Artiles and others who back the bill, including 
the executive director of the Christian Family Coalition, were so caught up in protecting women and children from prying, perverted eyes that they forgot voyeurism is already illegal. 
If they’re actually trying to prevent sexual misconduct in 
public restrooms, then the bill is incredibly redundant. But, 
upon closer inspection at the rhetoric they use, it’s clear Ar-
tiles isn’t trying to solve a voyeurism problem. 
The language is riddled with contempt for trans people. 
The law won’t have any effect beyond making trans lives a 
living hell. 
It’s a direct legal attack on identities that don’t fit into 
their distinct one-or-the-other worldview, and they know it.UWire
Legalize marijuana: Oldest US war needs to end
Earlier this month, House Bill 2165 — a resolution 
to legalize the production, sale and consumption of marijuana — was introduced to the Texas Legisla-
ture. Filed by tea party conservative David Simp-
son, the bill is one of six resolutions regarding the 
illicit plant being discussed this legislative session.
Simpson’s bill is distinct in that it grants more free-
doms regarding the controlled substance than successful legalization measures in Colorado and Washington, which opted for strict governance. Simpson, who defends the plant as a creation of God, explained in a news release that he supported regulating the plant as we would regulate 
“tomatoes, jalapeños or coffee,” according to The Houston 
Chronicle.
Simpson doesn’t fit the profile one might expect of a 
man trying to wrangle a plot for legalized pot in Texas. His 
far-right ideology draws from popular libertarian ideas like 
downsizing government and respecting personal liberties.
Simpson drew heavily from his Christian faith in form-
ing his opinion of marijuana saying, “Everything that God made is good, even marijuana.”
Amen, Simpson. Surely the man’s intentions are pure, 
though I much prefer some rhetoric based in logic than the faith of another.
However, Simpson does use conservative logic to paint 
a defense of marijuana any red-blooded Texan could un-derstand. Legalizing pot reduces pot-related incarcera-tions, thus lowering crime rates and decreasing costs to the legal system.
This also frees up resources to deal with violent crimes 
or properly funding Texas education.
The strategy could save Texas millions, and that 
doesn’t even speak to the tax revenues and tourism boosts to local economies that come with a “Green Revolution.”
According to CNN, Colorado — the first state to legal-
ize marijuana — pulled in $53 million last year in rec-reational sales tax alone, with $16 million more coming from medicinal tax.
While this may be a drop in the bucket of the state 
budget, Colorado used the money to bolster education statewide. Most importantly, that’s hundreds of millions of American dollars in sales not flowing directly into drug cartels’ hands.
For those who don’t know, the 
drug cartels — which bring in bil-
lions in illicit revenue each year — 
are responsible for killing more than 100,000 people in Mexico between 2006 and 2012, reported The Wash-
ington Post.
The “War on Drugs” we’ve been 
fighting since before President Rich-
ard Nixon even coined the term back in the ‘70s has failed. 
In its 43 “official” years, drug-related incarcerations have 
increased tenfold from 50,000 to 500,000, and Americans 
have paid more than $1 trillion. Plus, drug use is as pres-ent as ever here in the U.S.
It’s time to accept the facts. The war on drugs has cre-
ated a system that disproportionately oppresses and jails lower classes, systematically deepening socio-economic stratification and having massive impacts on entire gen-erations. Our “Land of the Free” is the most extensive in-carcerator in the world, worse than Russia and China.
Simpson’s bill, even if passed, would only be a step in 
the right direction. Meaningful policy reform must sweep across the federal government, stopping this war on its own citizens by addressing the drug crisis as a public 
health phenomena. Until then, money will be funneled 
across the border, killing thousands and further perpetu-ating the spread of drugs.
It’s time we moved past draconian laws that punish 
non-violent offenders. While legalization doesn’t suit all 
illicit drugs, even the staunchly conservative Simpson can 
appreciate the benefits.
“Putting people in prison and teaching them a whole 
lot about crime, separating them from the family, taking 
away the breadwinners simply for possessing a plant that 
God made — that’s wrong,” Simpson said, according to The Houston Chronicle. “I don’t know anyone who’s run off the road because of marijuana. I do know people who have fallen asleep because they ate too much.”
Jake Drake is a columnist for The Daily Cougar at 
University of Houston. A version of this article originally appeared on UWire.MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jake Drake
UWireMONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
There comes a time in American history 
when a bill is introduced into Congress that has real bipartisan support and has such common-sense appeal that it would be idiotic for anyone to block it. 
To want to play politics with a bill of this na-ture would be asinine and would prove one’s ineptitude. Yet, this “well, duh, we are go-ing to vote yes on it” bill is being obstructed by Senate Democrats, and no end is in sight for them to realize the senselessness of their stance against something that, I’m sure, 99.99 percent of the population supports.
I’m referring to the Justice for Victims of 
Trafﬁ  cking Act, which is being stonewalled for political gain. This act aims to improve tools provided to law enforcement to prevent and stop those involved in human trafﬁ  cking and sets up a fund for assisting victims from in-creased criminal ﬁ  nes. According to the U.S. Department of State, about 600,000 to 800,000 people are trafﬁ  cked across international bor-ders every year — 80 percent are female and 
50 percent are children. These victims can be 
forced into prostitution, slavery, involuntary servitude or compelled to commit sex acts on camera.
One devastating story that shines a light on these human rights injustices is from a woman named Maria, who was taken from her home in Mexico at the age of 15, sold by a woman to a man in California for $200 and 
forced to work up to 20 hours a day 
cleaning. During this time she was beaten and raped. After ﬁ  ve years of this abuse, her “owner” was murdered by another man, but she was blamed for it and put in prison for 22 years. She has moved on to become an active member in the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafﬁ  cking. Stories like 
hers continue to be a reality for people in the 
U.S. and all over the world.
This bill to combat these horriﬁ  c crimes, 
which are mostly perpetrated against women, children and minorities, was introduced in the committee in January with no opposition from any leader. However, last week Senate Demo-crats voted on ﬁ  ve separate occasions against it. Only four Democratic lawmakers voted 
with Republicans to advance the bill, and it 
continuously has missed the 60 votes needed to pass.
Most Democrats are refusing to vote for this 
act because it includes the Hyde Amendment, which has been used in laws since 1976 to prevent federal funds from being used to pay for abortions, except for in cases of rape and in-cest. Democrats have claimed that 
this amendment was added in after 
it left the initial committee it was drafted in, but in reality it was writ-ten in from the very beginning. Re-publicans did not sneak it in, and Democrats are using this as an ex-cuse to further exploit that Repub-
licans are anti-women and anti-choice, when in fact that couldn’t be further from the truth.
Back when the Affordable Care Act was be-
ing drafted in the House, Democratic Rep. Bart Stupak introduced the Stupak-Pitts Amend-ment into the health care law that would prohibit federal funds from paying for abor-tions, again with exceptions for extreme cases. This amendment was included in the House version, but it was excluded from the Sen-ate version. In order to secure Stupak’s vote, 
President Obama issued an executive order 
guaranteeing the Hyde Amendment would be a part of the health care overhaul.
Let’s put this into perspective: In the past, 
Democrats, including President Obama, have pushed for and passed the Hyde Amendment, but when Republicans include it in a bill that will work to correct the abuses against traf-ﬁ  cking victims suddenly it becomes a political game where Democrats paint Republicans as 
malicious.
To try to get the Democrats to back off and 
pass this act, Republicans have stated that 
they will not hold a vote on approving Loretta Lynch’s appointment as the new attorney gen-eral until the bill passes. Democrats saw this as an opportunity to pile on their fabricated rhetoric against the GOP and have said that Republicans halting Lynch’s appointment are 
racist. Sen. Dick Durbin asserted that Republi-
cans are forcing Lynch to “sit in the back of the bus when it comes to the Senate calendar,” an incendiary remark founded in falsehood that will only continue to strain race relations.
Note to Democrats: Have a wake-up call 
and realize that Democrats have also intro-duced anti-abortion provisions before, even quite recently. This political charade needs to 
stop so that we can begin to better assist vic-
tims of human trafﬁ  cking.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and politi-
cal science senior. His column appears on Mondays.
Democrats voting no on Trafficking Act is a shameful, political charadeColumn
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org
Fun fact: U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, 
ﬁ  ery lawmaker and the per-son who bears the closest liv-
ing resemblance to the guy 
from “American Dad,” was 
born in Canada.
Another fact: Cruz announced 
just after midnight today on Twit-
ter that he is running for president 
of the United States. He'll be an-nouncing his run later  today at Liberty University in Virginia.
This makes Cruz the ﬁ  rst 2016 
contender whose campaign plans are ofﬁ  cial, public business. Much speculation has been made about the intentions of bigger players 
like Hillary Clinton, Jeb Bush, 
and Govs. Scott Walker and Chris Christie, but none of them have said anything yet — publicly. Right 
now, Cruz is the only one we can 
be sure of.
The thing about Cruz is he’s 
very, very conservative. Like, hard-right, Tea Party pin-up con-servative. He’s got charisma. He’s got great hair. He’s got almost the 
same name as a movie star — if 
only Tom Cruise decided to take up politics — but his views only some-times approach anything resem-bling mainstream political thought.
His brand of being really conser-
vative is exempliﬁ  ed really well in his choice of announcement ven-ue: Liberty University. The univer-
sity was founded by the late Jerry 
Falwell, a fundamentalist thinker and megachurch preacher known for his extreme-right stances. 
For one, he opposed divestment 
from apartheid South Africa, op-posed Brown v. Board of Education because it blurred a “line of dis-tinction” drawn by God and once 
said “so-called gay folks would just 
as soon kill you as look at you.”
I don’t mean to insinuate Cruz 
agrees with these viewpoints — af-ter all, Falwell was only chancel-lor and president of the university 
until his death eight long years 
ago. To wit, it seems like the new chancellor and president of Liberty University — Jerry Falwell Jr. — continues his father’s right-wing 
legacy without most of the racist 
baggage. Instead, LU has diverted its resources to the more agreeable tenets of the late Falwell Sr.’s phi-
losophy. For example, LU got in a 
bunch of trouble in 2009 because it revoked recognition of its Col-lege Democrats chapter. Perhaps they felt the presence of card-car-rying democrats on campus would threaten the prestige of its Center 
for Creation Studies.
Much of the whining that goes 
on about Republicans is either ex-
aggerated or undeserved. The fact that we have only one party to 
represent each side of a vast po-
litical spectrum ensures this, and sometimes it’s fun to lob insults and jibes at each other simply be-
cause they sit on the other side of 
a mostly imaginary line. But Cruz is the real deal. The potency of his ideology separates him from most potential Republican candidates, 
and he probably outstrips all but 
the staunchest conservatives you know.
Other potential candidates from 
both parties have been taking it easy; they’re protected from at-tention and scrutiny because they haven’t outed themselves as con-tenders yet. It’s a deliberate strat-egy meant to keep from burning out or slipping up until the minute 
the show starts. Imagine how the 
Clinton email thing would have panned out had she been ofﬁ  cially running.
But Cruz ain’t having any of 
that. He’s gone and blown the right’s load early, 20 months ahead of the election. Until now, 2016 has been a distant event, shrouded in 
mystery and, for the candidates, 
careful exploration. Cruz just jolted everyone from this dreamlike state, declaring the race has started. It’s really doubtful that he’ll win — 
anyone as far from the mainstream 
as he is, left or right, probably won’t sit in the Oval Ofﬁ  ce. But, thanks to him, the race to ﬁ  nd out 
who will is on.
Alec Carver is a UF history 
sophomore and the opinions editor 
at the Alligator.
Ted Cruz’s candidacy announcement signals start of 2016 presidential raceColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Justin Deese considers himself 
a workaholic, which he said is a 
good thing.  
After all, the 21-year-old said, 
he’s running for Student Govern-
ment treasurer — a difficult posi-
tion that he said requires dedica-
tion and time.
Deese, a Gainesville native, 
served as a senator during Summer 
and part of Fall before becoming 
associate justice.
He always wanted to serve in 
leadership, but he said he didn’t 
like the idea of being paid. So, he 
opted out.
But after a decision near the end 
of last semester by the Santa Fe Administration to 
cut directors’ pay, 
Deese decided to run for treasurer.
“I’m very ex-
cited to finally 
have the oppor-
tunity to fight for the position on the leadership team that I’ve 
been wanting for 
a very long time and have compe-tition that I can fight against,” 
Deese said. 
On a typical weekday, Deese spends most of his time at school and studying. When 
he isn’t doing school work, he’s hanging out with friends or playing Pokémon or League of Legends.
Deese enrolled at Santa Fe when 
he was 19. He first majored in criminal justice and later changed his major to health services admin-istration.
As a sophomore in that pro-
gram, Deese still has another four 
years before he graduates. So, he 
said he’ll be looking at the long 
term instead of short term if elect-
ed as treasurer.
A main focus of Deese’s plat-
form is taking money from Santa Fe’s activity and service fees and 
directing it toward clubs so there 
will be more money to spend on 
what benefits stu-dents the most.
Sen. Connor 
Levine is sup-porting Deese’s campaign.
“He’s very 
reserved, but in a good way,” Levine said, add-ing that Deese is down to earth.
[Editor’s note: 
Treasurer can -
didate Timothy Bergman could not be reached for comment.]By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Conor Flynn and Hannah Gwynn are in this to-
gether.
Flynn and Gwynn are running with the United Party 
for Santa Fe College Student Body president and vice 
president, respectively. Elections start today, and the two have been busy campaigning.  
Gwynn, an 18-year-old elementary education soph-
omore, said she believes her love for teaching gives her the skills necessary to be a good Student Body vice president, adding that she has the patience necessary to be a good leader.
Flynn said he 
has accumulated 17,000 community service hours and 
received the Presi-
dent’s Volunteer Service Award for his work.
Both candi-
dates already have experience working in Stu-dent Government. Flynn currently serves as the direc-
tor of fundraising 
and Gwynn serves as director of SG Parking, Transportation and Safety.
The candidates stress two main policies: better rep-
resentation for students and better relationships be-tween Santa Fe senators.
Flynn said that, if elected, he and Gwynn plan to 
send leadership team members to each Santa Fe cam-pus on a monthly basis to hear from students.
Senate Secretary Matthew Fernandez, who has 
worked with Flynn and Gwynn for the past two semes-
ters, said the two are passionate about helping students 
and have the skills needed to get the job done.
“They’re going to go in every day with the mental-
ity to do the best they can (for the students),” he said.
The pair plans to hold monthly Town Hall-style 
meetings on the main campus’ Oak Grove to actively engage with fellow students.
To foster stronger relationships between Santa Fe 
senators, Flynn said he and his running mate hope to 
bring SG branches closer together and mediate issues 
between senators. But some senators have reacted criti-cally to this proposal, saying it’s impossible to rid SG of 
all drama because 
it exists in all lev-
els of politics.
“We under-
stand you can’t get rid of drama; 
that’s just a thing 
with people,” Gwynn said. 
“(But) the dra-
ma we have going on now is personal drama. It’s drama that shouldn’t be included in 
Student Govern-
ment.”
Flynn
 Gwynn
 Deese
SANTA FESFC Student Body election to run today through Wednesday
Prez and VP: Flynn and Gwynn Treasurer: Justin Deese 
By Adrian Cibran
Alligator Contributing Writer
Schools from across the state came togeth-
er this weekend to help Hispanic and Latino 
students better understand themselves, serve their communities and enact social justice.
The 15th biennial Florida Hispanic-Latino 
Collegiate Forum was held from Thursday to Saturday in the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, or La Casita, and had representa-tives from UF, Valencia College, Santa Fe College, Florida State University and Univer-sity of South Florida.
“Tú y yo,” which means “you and I” in Spanish, was this year’s theme and symbol-ized the importance of Hispanic individuals to America’s future by promoting friendships with other ethnic and racial groups.
“Si se puede!” “Ahora es la hora!” and 
“Tú y yo, together we can!” students cried out in unison throughout the conference.
Carmen Lopez-Ramirez, a UF Spanish se-
nior and forum coordinator, said she and La Casita’s staff worked to tailor the conference to the Gainesville community.
“I feel like there’s a lot of things that we 
need to discuss, and this is a great way for us (the Latino community) to get to know each other, as to actually communicate as to what’s going on,” Lopez-Ramirez, 22, said.
Mario Rivas, a professor of psychology at 
Merritt College in Oakland, California, was the conference’s first speaker Friday.
The U.S. Air Force veteran said he grew 
up on welfare. He brought people to tears with his two talks, “As I Share Myself With Others, I Become Complete in My Personal Power” and “The Highest and Most Power-ful Evolution of the Self is to Facilitate Com-munity,” which shared stories of overcoming adversity by integrating and adapting.
Juana Bordas, a best-selling Nicaraguan-
American author and UF alumna, delivered her talk “The Power of Latino Leadership: Culture, Inclusion and Contribution” on Sat-urday. She shared the struggle of fitting in as a Nicaraguan immigrant. She found her identity working in the Peace Corps.
“I was able to see my culture the way 
it is when you don’t have colonization and you’re not a minority,” she said.
Forum works to unite state’s Hispanic-Latino community
THE STORE CLOSED 
EARL Y AFTER THE INITIAL 
MORNING RUSH.
By Nicolette Amico
Alligator Contributing Writer
A pop-up street store gave Gaines-
ville’s homeless community a unique 
shopping experience on Sunday. 
This year’s frank gathering — a 
Gainesville-based conference for people who use communications to drive social change — hosted The Street Store, which provided home-less people a space in the chapel of 
Grace Marketplace full of donated 
items from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
The event actually ended at 1:30 
p.m.
However, because few people 
came after the initial morning rush. The remaining clothes were left as donations. 
Members of UF’s Alpha PRoduc-
tions, a student-run firm under the Public Relations Student Society of America, set up and volunteered in partnership with Grace Marketplace and the Alachua County Coalition 
for the Homeless and Hungry.
Elizabeth Boone, a volunteer with 
Alpha PRoductions and a UF public 
relations and theater senior, said peo-
ple were eager for their help. 
“They could choose what they 
wanted from all the things instead of 
having it just given to them directly because they might not need it, or it 
might not fit, ” Boone, 22, said. 
Taylor Christie, a member of Al-pha PRoductions who spearheaded 
the project, said people immediately took blankets, sleeping bags and 
mats. 
The socks and shoes were among 
the first to go, too. 
Although it was short notice, Christie, a 21-year-old UF public re-
lations senior, said there was a good turnout. 
She said the event highlighted the 
issues of homelessness and poverty in the city. 
“It’s just nice being able to take the 
time to give back when it’s really so easy to do so, ” Christie said. 
“It’s literally just taking clothes 
people were going to throw away in the first place and giving it to people 
who are actually going to use it and 
care about it. ”Pop-up store gives Gainesville homeless clothing options “I feel like there’s a lot of things that we 
need to discuss, and this is a great way 
for us (the Latino community) to get to 
know each other.”
Carmen Lopez-Ramirez
forum coordinator“The drama we have going on now is personal 
drama. It’s drama that shouldn’t be included in 
Student Government.”
Hannah Gwynn
Santa Fe Student Body vice presidential candidate
“They could choose what they 
wanted from all the things 
instead of having it just given 
to them directly.”
Elizabeth Boone
pop-up store volunteerMONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
T ouchable Art
Elise Liebold, 3, touches a sculpture in the Harn Museum of Art as part of the community art 
portion of the Access Art exhibit on Saturday. The exhibit allowed museum visitors to engage with art in a non-visual way. Liebold’s mother, Courtney Burroughs, looks on.
ONE COULD WIN 
$50,000.
By Preslie Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Four Gainesville entrepre-
neurs are finalists in a state-
wide competition.
The Cade Museum for Cre-
ativity and Invention has named 
the sweet 16 finalists in its sixth 
annual Cade Museum Prize competition. Four Gainesville residents are now up to win $50,000 to help launch their business or product, according to a press release.
Alexandra Rhoton, the Cade Museum Prize program man-ager, said the museum is dedi-cated to creativity, innovation and invention.
There are four competition 
categories: health care and 
medical, environmental and 
agricultural, IT and commerce and a wild card, Rhoton said.
For the top winner in the 
health care category, there is an additional prize of $10,000 from The Vision Fund in Ocala, Rho-ton said.
The four local finalists are 
Robert Damitz with aqUV, Lindsey Tropf with Immersed Games, Jonelle Toothman with NeXtGen Biologics and David Walker with Rehoboth Innova-tions, Rhoton said.
The final four will be an-
nounced April 21 and the final ceremony will be May 16 in the Santa Fe College Fine Arts Hall. The final four will present their 
product to the judges and the 
winner will be announced later that night, Rhoton said.
Robert Damitz, the 27-year-
old finalist from aqUV, said his team is thrilled to be in the sweet 16.
“Cade is open to the whole 
state of Florida,” the fourth-year 
UF chemical engineering gradu-
ate student said. “There are some really good ideas. … We are thrilled to be a part of it and be selected.”4 GNV residents Cade finalists
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Modern Day Geppetto
Tucker McDaniel, an 18-year-old home-schooled high school senior from Tren-
ton, turns a wood bowl at the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens on Saturday. McDan-iel, who said he has been working with wood for about four years, came to the Spring Garden Festival with Bell Woodturners, a club that was represented at the festival along with a variety of gardeners and other artisans.
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local 
man Friday afternoon for reportedly 
punching another driver because he 
was cut off in traffic.
Just before 2:30 p.m., Angel Arace-
na, 21, was driving on Southwest 34th Street when he became angry with 
another driver, according to a police report. When the two drivers stopped at a traffic light in the 2000 block, Ara-cena left his car and approached the 
driver’s side of the other car.
The two drivers argued before 
Aracena reached inside the car and 
punched the other driver in the head. That driver had a cut on the side of his 
nose and a cut on his right eyebrow, 
according to the report. The driver’s glasses were also bent.
Aracena went back into his car and 
drove away before police stopped and arrested him at 3000 SW 35th Place, ac-cording to the report.
After his arrest, 
Aracena told police he was angry the oth-er driver had cut him off, according to the 
report. 
He told police he reached inside the 
car and pushed the other driver but did not punch him.
Aracena declined to comment on 
the incident.
Aracena’s license had been sus-
pended last May for failure to pay cita-tions.
Police arrested him on charges of 
burglary of occupied conveyance, sim-ple battery and knowingly driving with a suspended or revoked license. 
Officers took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he was released on his own recognizance Saturday just af-ter 11:30 a.m.Police: Gainesville man 
arrested over road rageBy The Associated Press
NEW YORK — Starbucks baristas will no lon-
ger write “Race Together” on customers’ cups 
starting Sunday, ending a visible component of the company’s diversity and racial inequality campaign that had sparked widespread criticism 
in the week since it took effect.
The company had planned all along to end 
the cup messages on Sunday and continue the 
campaign more broadly, Starbucks spokesman Jim Olson said.
The cups were “just the catalyst” for a larger 
conversation, and Starbucks will still hold forum discussions, co-produce special sections in USA TODAY and put more stores in minority commu-nities as part of the Race Together initiative, ac-cording to a company memo from CEO Howard Schultz.
The campaign has been criticized as oppor-
tunistic and inappropriate. Others questioned whether Starbucks workers could spark pro-
ductive conversations about race while serving 
drinks.
Schultz’s note to employees acknowledged the 
skeptics as an anticipated part of the outreach.
“While there has been criticism of the initia-
tive — and I know this hasn’t been easy for any of you — let me assure you that we didn’t expect universal praise,” it read.Starbucks ends cup messagesNATIONAL
CRIME
Aracena
MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-
3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 
2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balconyParking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from campus. Nice house. Hardwood floors, cen-tral heat/air, W/D provided. 1105 NW 10th Ave. $1550/mo, call/text 352-339-2342. pic-tures at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-24-15-5-2
Charming 2 bed 1 bath housewith large fenced yard, screen porch,washer/dryer hookup,dog with deposit,1123 nw 31st avenue, lease,$800475 1586 or/213 1963 leave message   3-25-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $375/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    3-25-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsMONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended pe-riods of time & work weekends and evenings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15The Towering Harvard HandSign Language Assistant
352-375-8606                         3-23-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 PetsMen's golf struggles to close out Schenkel Invitational
After starting the Chris Schenkel Invitational in sixth place, the UF men's 
golf team ended the tournament in 12th place out of 15 teams. Senior J.D. T omlinson was UF's highest-ranking individual, finishing in 24th place.Florida gymnastics finished 
third at the Southeastern Conference Championships after a stumble from Kytra Hunter and two falls on beam. Read the story on page 14.In case you missed it:
For game stories from this weekend's baseball, softball tennis, and track and field events, go to alligator.org/sports.MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF IS SHIFTING TO A PRO-
STYLE OFFENSE.
By Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
Week 1 of Spring football for the 
Florida Gators is in the books, and 
questions still surround the installa-tion of the new offense. 
But first-year head coach Jim 
McElwain said he is pleased with how the players are adjusting.
“There’s a heck of a lot more 
formations, motions shifts, different personnel groups, so that’s a lot of the stuff that still needs to go in,” McElwain said, “but they’re adapt-ing and communicating and I feel pretty good about it.” 
The Gators will be running more 
of a pro-style scheme, but that doesn’t mean they will be taking things slow when it comes to calling plays. 
McElwain said the offense needs 
to improve upon getting plays off faster.
“Create the chaos," McElwain 
said. "Play when your mind seems tired, when your body seems tired and you’ve gotta understand you can overcome if your mind will let you. ... Those are some of the things that we’re teaching, not only physi-cally but obviously in our mental conditioning aspect of what we do in our program.”
One of the biggest question marks 
for the team heading into Spring was at wide receiver. With the exception of Demarcus Robinson, the produc-tion at the position has been incon-sistent. But McElwain said so far the receivers have stood out to him most out of all the positions on both sides of the ball.
“They’re eager and willing. And 
that’s something to be said about 
that, is when you’re eager and will-
ing, you’re gonna have a chance to be successful,” McElwain said. “And that group has probably showed me more out of all the groups on the field out of anybody.”
In the past five seasons in 
Gainesville, the Gators have had four different offensive coordinators. With offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier now at the helm, the quarterbacks will have to go from the shotgun to under center — a transition that is more challenging 
than some people may realize.
“It’s a learning curve, a steep one 
right now for them. They weren’t un-der center last year, so we’re starting 
from that,” Nussmeier said. “Talk-ing about getting in a stance, prop-er hand placement to take a snap. 
You’re talking about things that if 
you don’t focus on little things, they become major issues.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Wide receiver Demarcus Robinson runs after catching a pass during practice on Monday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Florida is 
looking for increased production from its wide receivers.
Florida football team still adjusting to new offense
SENIOR SHANNON GILROY 
SCORED SEVEN GOALS.
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
Florida entered its road match against 
Vanderbilt on Sunday having lost three 
straight games. 
The Gators were determined not to make 
it four.
No. 7 Florida (7-4, 1-0 Big East) defeated 
the Commodores (3-6, 0-1 Big East) 19-10 in 
Nashville, Tennessee, in both teams’ con-ference opener. The Gators played a physi-
cal and aggressive game, making sure to get back in the win column.
Senior Shannon Gilroy set the tone early 
for Florida, applying heavy pressure at the attacker position and seemingly scoring at will. 
The Northport, New York, native filled 
the stat sheet with a career-high nine points — consisting of a season-high seven goals on 12 shots — two assists, five caused turn-overs and eight draw controls.
The Gators looked to be back to the level 
of play they exhibited before losing three UF lacrosse dominates 
Vandy in conference openerSWIMMING
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
The Florida women’s swimming and div-
ing team wrapped up the 2015 NCAA Cham-
pionships in ninth place, marking Florida’s 15th straight top-10 finish at the meet.
The Gators gathered 15 All-American hon-
ors during the three-day meet in Greensboro, North Carolina.
While junior Jessica Thielmann led the 
way for Florida with four All-American hon-ors, Natalie Hinds was breaking her own UF records.
The junior broke UF’s school-record in the 
100-yard freestyle with a time of 47.19 – a re-cord she set earlier Saturday in prelims with a time of 47.24.
“I wanted to break 47 (second), but I can’t 
be mad with finishing third place at nation-
als,” Hinds said in a release. “It went really 
well. I do have some little things to work on but overall I’m pretty happy.”
Coach Gregg Troy said he was pleased 
with the improvements the Gators made throughout the meet after a rough first day.
“They’ve done such a tremendous job all 
year with a lot adversity all year long,” Troy said in a release. “But, the character they 
showed was excellent.”
With no seniors at the meet, the Gators 
should return all of their swimmers who 
competed at the NCAA Tournament next year. Florida hopes the difficulties the team has faced will prepare it for another run in 2016.Women finish 9th at NCAAs
SEE LAX,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
DULUTH, Ga. — The Gators were 
in perfect position. But then, it all 
came crashing down.
Top-seeded Florida scored a 
197.400 on Saturday night at the 
Southeastern Conference Champi-
onships to finish third in the eight-team field, trail-ing second-place LSU (197.450) and champion Alabama (197.525).
Despite a red-hot start, the Gators 
capitulated on beam and fell short in their quest for the conference crown for the second year in a row.
“It was the best we’ve done at 
any SEC Championship or any na-tional championship, for that mat-ter, in the first two events,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “We feel the pain right now because beam was ... 
awful.
“It was tough, and it was prob-
ably one of the toughest beam rota-
tions that I can remember in my his-tory at Florida.”Amid the chaos inside the Arena 
at Gwinnett Center, the Gators held 
a hefty 99.200-98.750 lead over their 
closest opponent, Alabama, through the first two rotations of the competi-tion.
Florida was coming off its second 
highest vault score in school history — a 49.625 — and a season-high 49.575 on bars led by Bridget Sloan’s 
second consecu-
tive perfect 10 in 
the event.
It was the first 
ever 10 by a Gator in the SEC Cham-
pionships and the first perfect mark on bars in the competition’s history.
The momentum was Florida’s.The confidence was Florida’s.
The title was Florida’s.
Then, freshman Ericha Fass-
bender stepped up to start the team’s beam routine.
Within seconds, her foot missed 
the beam on a back flip and she fell hard against the wood, bounced off and sunk to the ground. 
She scored a 9.275.
Just like that, the momentum 
and confidence that had been gush-
ing moments before was replaced by suffocating pressure.
Following Rachel Spicer (9.875) 
and Claire Boyce (9.900) was fresh-man Alex McMurtry, the only Gator who hadn’t suffered a fall or been forced to exit a routine early all sea-son.
But the 18-year-old fell victim to 
the biggest stage of her young career, scoring a 9.30 on beam.
And just when it seemed the 
worst had been realized, senior Ky-tra Hunter lost balance in the very next routine and nearly fell herself, resulting in a 9.600 and ultimately a team score of 48.625.
“I don’t know what happened,” 
Hunter said. “We’re all human and we all make mistakes.”
Florida scored a 49.575 on floor 
to finish the meet, giving the Gators the top score in three of the four events. 
But the damage was done.“I told them that of course this is 
hard for them, because we had the title,” she said. “But we cannot let those mistakes happen and it was too much to overcome, and that I 
wanted this to really burn on their 
hearts … so that this fuels them for the last two meets of the season.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffABOVE: Senior Kiersten Wang performs her floor exercise routine during the 
Southeastern Conference Championships. Wang scored a 9.85 on the event and UF scored a meet-high 49.575 as a team.
TOP RIGHT: Senior Kytra Hunter stumbles before touching the balance beam — a 
three-tenths of a point deduction. Hunter scored 9.60 on the event. Hunter’s stum-ble, in addition to falls from Ericha Fassbender and Alex McMurtry, resulted in UF posting a 48.625 team score on the balance beam, which ranked sixth in the eight-team field.
MIDDLE RIGHT: Gator fans celebrate during Florida’s vault rotation. UF scored a 
meet-high 49.625 on vault at the SEC Championships, with five of the six gymnasts scoring at least a 9.90.
BOTTOM RIGHT: UF coach Rhonda Faehn celebrates with junior Bridget Sloan af-
ter Sloan scored a perfect 10.0 on the uneven parallel bars. Sloan is the first gymnast in UF history with a perfect score on any event at the SEC Championships and is the first gymnast ever to achieve a perfect score on bars at the conference meet.
For more photos from the Southeastern Conference Gymnastics Championships, see the 
full gallery online at alligator.org.
Florida finishes third at SECs
GYMNASTICSstraight, which is vital for the team 
at this point in the season. 
Coach Amanda O’Leary said 
after Florida’s loss to Stony Brook that the Gators now have to win the Big East, as far as postseason 
aspirations are concerned.
They got off to a great start on 
Sunday.  
“I just think (Florida) played at 
a higher level,” O’Leary said. “Of-fensively, they were really unself-
ish, they shared the ball...I was re-ally pleased with that whole entire group, they did a great job.”
This victory was O’Leary’s 
250th career win as a collegiate head coach, becoming just the eighth Division I women’s lacrosse coach to accomplish the feat.
This particular annual match 
with Vanderbilt is also something unique. The two traditional South-
eastern Conference schools are the 
only two with women’s lacrosse programs, so this game is occasion-ally referred to as the “SEC Regular 
Season Championship.”
Florida certainly played like this 
was a championship game from 
start to finish. Along with Gilroy’s performance, sophomores Sammi 
Burgess and Mollie Stevens each 
added three goals and the team fin-ished with 37 shots, a season-high.
On defense, the Gators caused 
17 turnovers and 30 ground balls while goalkeeper Mary-Sean Wil-cox recorded seven saves.
For now, it seems Florida has 
put its losing skid in the past and is 
focusing on the upcoming Big East 
schedule, and it got a terrific start to that schedule on Sunday.
“We needed this,” O’Leary said. 
“We obviously needed that win.”MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Shannon Gilroy runs down the field during Florida's 14-13 overtime loss to Syracuse. Gilroy scored a 
season-high seven goals on 12 shots in Florida's 19-10 win against Vanderbilt on Sunday. 
By Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
The Gators women’s golf team 
is coming off consecutive runner-
up performances for the first time this season, most recently at the SunTrust Gator Women’s Golf In-
vitational, where four golfers indi-
vidually cracked the top-25 in the leaderboards.
However, that will be one of the few firsts the Gators must get ac-customed to, as they tee off today at the Briar’s Creek Invitational in Charleston, South Carolina — a tournament the Gators have never competed in before.
Heading into the event, Florida 
will be participating as a top-25 
team for the first time this year, 
landing at No. 25 in Golfweek’s most recent polls.
While it wasn’t planned, it 
seems as if the two weeks off, which is the longest of the spring season, in between events was a nice reward given to the team. 
“The one thing that I’ve learned 
over the last few years is that our spring season is a long season, and we played in the fall, too, so we don’t get a huge break ever,” coach Emily Glaser said. “We try 
to sort of give them a little time to 
relax and catch up on school, so when they do come back to prac-tice, they’re feeling good and en-ergized.”
Keeping a high level of energy will be important as today’s first round will be a shotgun start, start-
ing at 8:45 a.m.
Round 1 will feature 36 holes of 
continuous play from the golfers.
Two of those golfers will in-
clude sophomore Karolina Vlckova 
and freshman Taylor Tomlinson.
Vlckova used back-to-back 
1-over-par performances during the SunTrust Invitational to give 
her a cumulative score of 6-over-
par, putting her in a tie for second place.
For Vlckova, this marked the 
second time in her career that she finished in second-place. Then there is Tomlinson, the 
Gainesville native who finished in 
21st place at the home event, her 
fourth top-25 finish this season. Tomlinson shot a personal tourna-ment best 2-over-par in the third round, giving her a total score of 16-over.
Her play was recognized na-
tionally, as she received the honor of Southeastern Conference Fresh-
man Golfer of the Week – another 
first for her and the Gators.
The success of the team has 
helped establish a much-needed boost in chemistry as the girls are starting to feed off of each other.
Women's golf returns to action after two-week break
LAX,  from pg13The Gators recorded a season-high 37 shots in road winMEN'S TENNIS
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
The winning streak has come to an end.After back-to-back victories, the No. 15 
Gators men's tennis team fell to No. 13 Ole Miss 4-0 on Sunday afternoon in Oxford, Mis-sissippi.
Florida (9-6, 4-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) dropped its second doubles match of its SEC season against Ole Miss (12-4, 4-1 
SEC) to start the singles matches at a 1-0 dis-
advantage.
With Sunday’s setback, Florida has prov-
en that doubles is a key component of the team’s success.
After doubles duo Maxx Lipman and El-
liott Orkin dropped its match 6-1 to the Reb-els’ Zvonimir Babic and Nik Scholtz, Florida crumbled.
No. 72 doubles pair Oliver Landert and 
Josh Wardell couldn't clinch their match af-ter going into a tie-break with Ole Miss’ Grey 
Hamilton and William Kallberg.
After losing the doubles point for the sec-
ond time in SEC play, the Gators couldn't keep the energy alive in singles.
With only three courts available to play, 
courts four through six were unable to get 
the advantages that a regular six-court field has to offer. 
And with the top three 
courts unable to get the job done, the Gators were 
in trouble. 
Lipman, the sophomore 
captain, fell in straight sets 
to put the Gators down 
2-0.
Orkin followed with a 
loss in singles in straight 
sets against No. 82 Stefan Lindmark (6-4, 6-3).
No. 64 Diego Hidalgo battled on court No. 
1 for the Gators.
But the junior couldn’t bring the Gators to 
level ground after dropping his last set 6-0.
“Ole Miss played very well today,” coach 
Bryan Shelton said in a release. “It was un-fortunate that our Nos. 4, 5, and 6 singles players didn’t get a chance to play."
The Gators finish up their three-game 
road swing with a trip to Auburn to face the Gators swept by Ole Miss THE WOMEN'S TENNIS TEAM 
HAS NOW WON 10 STRAIGHT 
MATCHES.
By Eneisy Rodriguez
Alligator Writer
@eneisyr29
The No. 2 Florida women’s tennis team 
(15-1, 7-0 Southeastern Conference) earned its 10th-straight victory Sunday afternoon at the Ring Tennis Complex after defeating No. 27 Mississippi State (13-5, 3-4 SEC) 5-2.
The Gators remain perfect in SEC play af-
ter clinching the win.
Florida also remains undefeated in the all-
time series against the Mississippi State Bull-dogs, extending its record to 36-0 and 17-0 in Gainesville.
In doubles play, the No. 22 pairing of Josie 
Kuhlman and Peggy Porter dominated the Bulldogs’ Ronaldson and Timea Guibe, win-
ning 8-0 on the No. 3 court.
Spencer Liang and Belinda Woolcock de-
feated their opponents Georgina Patrasc and 
Jasmine Lee, 8-2, to clinch the doubles point.
In singles play, No. 5-ranked freshman 
Brooke Austin bounced back from her loss in the Ole Miss competition, defeating her op-ponent Lee 6-3, 6-3.
Keegan followed suit with a 6-1, 6-2 win 
on Court 5 before No. 6-ranked Kuhlman topped Patrasc 6-3, 6-3 to clinch the match.
Sophomore Belinda Woolcock fell to Lou-
ise Ronaldson in a third set super tiebreaker, 7-5, 0-6, 1-0 (10-6).
Junior Brianna Morgan has not dropped a 
set in her last six singles matches after defeat-ing Mississippi State Bulldog Martina Fran-
tova 7-5, 6-0. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist said he’s confi-
dent with how the team is rounding into form.
“I think we’ll be fine,” Thornqvist said in 
a release. “When we played at Indoors we 
played three consecutive days and with these three matches we actually have a rest day in between, so physically it’s not going to be a problem for us,” said Thornqvist.
Florida will now head to College Station, 
Texas, to face the No. 30 Texas A&M Aggies Tuesday at 3 p.m. The match was originally scheduled for earlier this month but was post-poned due to rainy conditions.
“We know how good Texas A&M is, so 
the motivation will certainly not be an issue," Thornqvist said. "I think we’re looking for-ward to playing them.”UF tops Mississippi State
“I just think (Florida) 
played at a higher level. 
Offensively, they were 
really unselfish. They 
shared the ball.”
Amanda O'Leary
UF lacrosse coachShelton
The Gators No. 25 in the country16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015
