UF OFFICIALL Y 
INAUGURATES ITS 12TH 
PRESIDENT.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
The long, golden chain passed 
from hand to hand until it reached 
UF President Kent Fuchs on Friday.
First, the presidential chain of 
ofﬁ  ce was in the hands of UF Presi-dent Emeritus Marshall Criser II at the presidential inauguration cer-
emony. He passed it on to UF Presi-
dent Emeritus John Lombardi, who passed it to UF President Emeritus Bernie Machen.
When the shimmering medallion 
reached UF Board of Trustees Chair-man Steven Scott, he placed it over Fuchs’ head, ofﬁ  cially welcoming Fuchs as UF’s 12th president.
In the moments leading up to the 
presentation of the chain, speakers representing various aspects of Flor-ida life spoke about Fuchs and his newfound leadership.
Scott spoke of the way Fuchs 
stood out to him during the search for a new president about a year ago.
He recalled meeting with poten-
tial candidates in ofﬁ  ces, libraries and restaurants, but Fuchs and his wife, Linda, were the only ones to invite him to their home for dinner.
“I say, welcome, Dr. Fuchs to 
the University of Florida,” he said. “Welcome to our home.”
Florida’s Commissioner of Ag-
riculture, Adam Putnam, said the inauguration was important to him 
as an alumnus, and he welcomed 
Fuchs on behalf of Florida’s agricul-tural cabinet.
Putnam said under Fuchs’ lead-
ership, UF will climb to the top of higher education.
“The students, alumni, faculty 
and reptiles of The Gator Nation will follow you through these lovely 
vine-clad halls,” he said.
Chairman of the Florida Board of We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 71 MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
UF women’s basketball 
back home
The Gators have won six straight, pg. 
13
Meet and greet student Senators 
Students met their SG representatives, pg. 3
Local church mourns victims of California 
shooting
Gainesville residents honor lives lost in shooting, pg. 5Festivals of lights  
The holidays are in full swing in Gainesville. 
Check out the photos and stories, pgs. 8-9
FLORIDA 15 ALABAMA 29
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff  
UF President Kent Fuchs receives the presidential chain of ofﬁ  ce on Friday. The inauguration ceremo-
ny ofﬁ  cially welcomed him as UF’s 12th president.Welcome home, President FuchsBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
ATLANTA — On Dec. 5, 2014, Jim McEl-
wain stepped off of a UAA private plane at the 
Gainesville Regional Airport.
One day earlier, he had been named Flori-
da’s next head football coach and was ready to 
turn around a Florida football program that had 
been in disarray for the past ﬁ  ve years.
Twelve months later, McElwain led the 
Gators to the Southeastern Conference Champi-onship Game, their ﬁ  rst appearance since 2009.
While then-No. 18 Florida fell 29-15 to No. 
2 Alabama in the conference title game, McEl-wain’s presence has been viewed as a rebirth for a program that has a long history of athletic 
success.
It hasn’t been a smooth ride, but the 53-year-
old ball coach from Missoula, Montana, has brought the Gators back to national relevance.
But McElwain knows the work has just be-
gun.
“I just can’t tell you how happy I am that 
the administration chose to go our direction 
and to trust us to help this program get back to where it belongs,” McElwain said. “I’ll tell you what: we’re going to get there. And we’re getting there in a hurry.”
The Pieces
Antonio Callaway was wrapping up his se-
nior season at Miami’s Booker T. Washington High when McElwain took over in Gainesville.
The speedy wide receiver was on the fast 
track to success, catching seven touchdowns 
and averaging 26.4 yards per catch as Booker 
T. took home the Class 4A state title in his last year. He also had his share of colleges inter-ested in him. Alabama, FSU, Georgia and his hometown University of Miami were among the 18 schools who offered Callaway.But he dreamed of going to Florida. He grew up watching Percy Harvin and Jeff 
Demps light up The Swamp every Saturday 
and wanted to be the next big-name player to 
come out of Florida’s offense.
The feelings were mutual with McElwain.“He said ‘we’re still coming after you,’” said 
Callaway, a three-star prospect and the No. 47 wide receiver in the 2015 recruiting class ac-cording to 24/7 Sports. “‘We still want you.’”
Callaway took his ofﬁ  cial visit Jan. 30. He 
committed and signed his letter of intent on 
National Signing Day ﬁ  ve days later, one of a 
handful of freshmen already making an impact for the Gators this season.
In addition to Callaway, McElwain swayed 
offensive lineman Martez Ivey and defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson — both blue chip pros-pects and the No. 2- and 7-ranked players in the class, respectively — as well as four-star running back duo Jordan Scarlett and Jordan 
Cronkrite to come to UF, creating a quintet of 
playmakers who highlighted a last-second re-cruiting effort.
In just two months time, McElwain lifted the Gators’ recruiting class from as low as 96th to 21st in the country. Fifteen of UF’s 22 recruits committed in the ﬁ  nal two weeks, including 
seven on signing day.
In addition, redshirt senior Mason Halter — 
a 6-foot-6 All-American offensive lineman at 
FCS school Fordham — transferred to Florida in the summer, adding depth to Florida’s of-fensive line that saw four starters leave for the NFL Draft.
“For a ﬁ  rst signing class, for our ﬁ  rst signing 
class, ﬁ  rst and foremost, the momentum that 
we gained has been fantastic,” McElwain said 
on signing day.
And balanced with the senior class — a 
group with proven players in defensive line-man Jon Bullard, linebacker Antonio Morrison, cornerback Brian Poole and tight end Jake Mc-Gee — McElwain had a group to work with for his ﬁ  rst season.
The imperfections were still there, but McEl-
wain knew the group was in it for the long run.
“We’re leaving a program that’s deﬁ  nitely Despite title game loss, McElwain had solid Year 1
SEE MCELWAIN,  PAGE  16
SEE INAUGURATION,  PAGE 4Gators exceeded expectations
“The students, alumni, 
faculty and reptiles of The 
Gator Nation will follow you 
through these lovely vine-clad 
halls.”
Adam Putnam
Commissioner of AgricultureSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Reitz Union Presents De-
Stress Study Fest
On Thursday from 11 a.m. to 
3 p.m., join us on the Reitz 
Union North Lawn to take a break from studying for finals with fun inflatable rides, your 
favorite mega-sized games, 
free massages provided by RecSports and free food galore — this year will also feature churros, pretzels and hot choc-
olate. Afterward, from 3 to 5 
p.m., the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center will be throwing a party with some free food 
and crafts. 
Stop by to decorate a small tote bag, make some buttons or grab some pizza and drinks.
Robotics Demos at UF
Robot demo day at UF will include demonstrations of about a dozen robots built 
by students in this semester’s 
Intelligent Machines Design Laboratory course. Several other robots from the Machine Intelligence Lab 
will be displayed, includ-
ing the robots from our past world champion competitions teams: our robot boat built by 
team PropaGator and our ro-
bot submarine built by team SubjuGator. The demos will occur Wednesday, from 1 to 3 
p.m. in the New Engineering 
Building’s Harris Rotunda at UF. See mil.ufl.edu/5666/ro-bot_info_f15 for more informa-
tion.
Toastmasters party is Tuesday
The Talking Gators Holiday 
Party and Gift Exchange will 
be during the Tuesday meeting 
at 5:45 p.m. Bring a wrapped new or gently used gift (about $5) for the ex-
change table for Table Topics. 
Meetings are in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Dr. For more information about the 
club, visit the website talking-
gators.toastmastersclubs.org. Talking Gators also has a Facebook page.
Comedy Show
Celebrate the end of the se-mester with a comedy show. “Just Kidding: A Live + Online 
Sketch Comedy Show” will be showing at the Hippodrome 
State Theatre on Friday and 
Saturday at 11 p.m. 
The show will feature an hour of live sketches. Tickets are limited. Get yours at justkiddingcom-
edy.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Justice Department to investi-
gate Chicago police
CHICAGO (AP) — The U.S. 
Justice Department is expected to launch a wide-ranging in-
vestigation this week into the 
patterns and practices of the Chicago Police Department af-ter recent protests over a video 
showing a white Chicago po-
lice officer shooting a black teenager 16 times, according to a person familiar with the matter.
 The person was not autho-
rized to discuss the investi-gation publicly before it was announced and spoke to The 
Associated Press on condition 
of anonymity. The civil rights probe follows others recently in Baltimore and Ferguson, Missouri, and 
comes as the police department 
and Mayor Rahm Emanuel are under intense scrutiny over their handling of the October 
2014 death of 17-year-old 
Laquan McDonald. Officer Jason Van Dyke was charged with first-degree murder Nov. 24, more than a year after the 
killing and just hours before 
the release of police dashboard camera footage showing the officer shooting the teenager.
The video shows McDonald 
veering away from officers on a four-lane street when Van Dyke, seconds after exiting his squad car, opens fire from 
close range. The officer continues shoot-
ing after McDonald crumples to the ground and is barely moving. The video does not include sound, which authori-
ties have not explained.
The Chicago City Council signed off on a $5 million settlement with McDonald's 
family even before the family 
filed a lawsuit and city officials fought in court for months to keep the video from being re-leased publicly. 
The city's early efforts to sup-
press its release coincided with Emanuel's re-election campaign, when the mayor 
was seeking African-American 
votes in a tight race.
Terror threat against US has 
entered 'new phase'
WASHINGTON (AP) — In 
a rare Oval Office address, President Barack Obama 
vowed Sunday night the 
United States would overcome a terror threat that has entered a "new phase" as he sought 
to reassure Americans shaken 
by recent attacks in Paris and California."I know that after so much war, many Americans are ask-
ing whether we are confronted 
by a cancer that has no im-mediate cure," he said, speak-ing from a lectern in his West 
Wing office.
The president's speech fol-lowed Wednesday's shooting in San Bernardino, California, that killed 14 people and 
wounded 21. Authorities say 
a couple carried out the at-tack and the wife pledged alle-giance to the Islamic State and 
its leader in a Facebook post.
Obama said that while there was no evidence that the shooters were directed by a terror network overseas or part 
of a broader plot, "the two of 
them had gone down the dark path of radicalization.""This was an act of terrorism 
designed to kill innocent peo-
ple," he said in the 13-minute address.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 71
HIGH  73° LOW  43°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUPBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Students had the opportunity 
to voice their opinions to Stu-
dent Government senators Friday afternoon. For the ﬁ  rst time, it wasn’t at a Senate meeting.
SG hosted its ﬁ  rst “Meet Your Senator Day” on the Plaza of the Americas. The event allowed stu-dents to meet the senators who represent UF’s districts.
But the group didn’t speak 
with as many students as they had hoped, said Sen. Anthony Close (District C, Impact).
“It’s hard because it’s ﬁ  nals,” 
he said.He said he talked to a few stu-
dents about what SG does and addressed their concerns, like the low number of on-campus buses.
“I think it’s important to en-
gage with the people you rep-resent,” Close said. “You’re supposed to represent a larger population.”
Close said he wants to do the 
event again in the Spring when more students might be able to attend.
Alejandro Guerra, a UF politi-
cal science freshman, wrote in an email he attended to learn more about SG.
While Guerra, 19, didn’t meet 
his senator for the Yulee Area, he said he met Sen. Audrey Guerra (Liberal Arts and Sciences, Ac-cess) and Sen. Nardin Derias (Ag-riculture, Access). They told him what senators do and the commit-tees they were on.
“I thought the event was 
great,” Alejandro Guerra said.
Sen. Austin Champoux (Dis-
trict A, Impact) said he talked to students about SG’s initiatives.
“I really want to hear the stu-
dents’ voices,” he said.  
 Meet and Greet: Students meet Student Government senators
Only a few participated
UF researchers find new way to irrigate potatoes
 UF researchers recently found a new way to save water when irrigating one of Florida’s top cash crops. Researchers in the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences discovered they could use a hybrid-center pivot irrigation system, in which water is sprayed 
above ground and trickled directly to the plants under-
ground, to conserve water. The system effectively de-creased water usage without sacrificing the crops’ quality or yield, said Guodong Liu, an IFAS assistant professor. He said the old irrigation method, called seepage irriga-tion, only irrigated the plants from under the ground and the water would eventually flow away wastefully. With the new method, two thirds of the water is sprayed above ground, and about one third comes from under 
the ground. 
 With the old method, Liu said commercial potato farmers use an average of 543,086 gallons of water per acre, but the new method uses only 230,812 gallons. “Potatoes are a very important crop in Florida,” he said. “The water issue is a huge problem in the state.” The research was conducted on a private farm in Parrish, Florida. In the past three years, UF students, bi-ologists and farmers saved one billion gallons of water 
because of the hybrid-center pivot system, Liu said.
 Millions of gallons of water are used to irrigate the 35,000 acres of potato farms around the state. Liu said Central Florida will experience a water shortage in the near future if farmers aren’t educated on conservation.
- Ashley MartinUF professor finds mountain erosion increases with 
more  glacier ice
 A UF professor was part of a research group 
that found on some mountains, a large amount of gla-cier ice can increase sediment erosion. The group discovered that an increase in the amount of glacier ice on a mountain a million years 
ago made the mountain smaller, said UF geology pro-
fessor John Jaeger. Jaeger studied the St. Elias Mountains, located on the Alaskan coast, and was part of a research group funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation and the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program.   “There is a coupling between the climate and how the Earth responds,” Jaeger, 47, said.Jaeger said the team chose to study St. Elias Mountains 
because the range has a high rate of erosion, which 
was a necessary condition. The team of scientists collected sediment samples around the mountain and found they were younger than they had originally thought, Jaeger said. This showed climate change affected the sediments’ erosion. He said mountains are eroding faster than they’re growing. Sediments are increasingly leaving 
the mountains, but this erosion is not noticeable to 
most. “There is more going out than coming in,” Jaeger said.
- John Avery GuytonUF researchers create a method for conserving 
water with pee
 A UF researcher established a new method to con-
serve water used for farming and gardening — with pee. Treavor Boyer, a UF environmental engineer-
ing sciences professor, and his team found that urine 
can be used to fertilize plants. The team developed a source-separation method, which separates the elements in urine from water. The method will collect nutrients 
found in urine to create a plant fertilizer.
 “Everyone’s urine has a lot of nutrients from the food we eat,” Boyer said. “Those nutrients are nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Plants need this to grow.” He said his research proves that if someone were 
to apply the liquid fertilizer to a plant, it should have 
the same outcome as using synthetic fertilizer. This ulti-mately saves water. The source-separation method is also designed to 
remove pharmaceutical drugs from entering the environ-
ment, Boyer said. The method would separate the drugs from the water, just as it separates the urine from the water.   “We are excited about this,” Boyer said. “We can 
save water, create fertilizers and remove pharmaceuti-
cals.”
- Ainesey Foira“I really want to hear the 
students’ voices.”
Austin Champoux
student senatorBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Students can drink a beer at the 
Reitz Union after winter break.
The Reitz expansion, which start-
ed May 2013, will cost about $75 
million, said Eddie Daniels, the ex-
ecutive director of the Reitz. When 
students come back to school Jan. 5, they will be able to explore the new-ly renovated ground floor and first floor, and may be able to go onto the second floor. The third floor and the Rion Ballroom are behind schedule.
“They work from the bottom up,” Daniels said.
The ground floor will offer stu-
dents Orange and Brew, a restau-rant and brewery, and a game room, where students can bowl and play pool, Daniels said. The first floor will have an atrium and an entrance to 
the Constans Theatre and UF Book-
store.
The game room may not be im-
mediately available to students, he said. The room currently has tempo-rary offices in it, and the furniture for it still has to be moved in.
“The winter break time is really 
the only time of year the Union is 
closed,” he said.
The fire marshal has been in-specting the building, Daniels said. 
Starting Dec. 16, the contractors will have up to 45 days to make adjust-ments and corrections. When all ad-justments are finished, a final date for the end of construction will be given.
The ribbon-cutting ceremony is 
tentatively planned for Feb. 20, he said.
“Get ready, ‘cause it’s time,” 
Daniels said.
Andrea Hammer, 19, was walk-
ing from her class in McCarty when she noticed the walls had come down.
“I think it’s exciting,” the UF psy-
chology sophomore said. “The de-sign of the building is really pretty, so I’m really interested to see what it looks like.”
Governors Morteza Hosseini said UF held a 
special place within Florida’s university fam-ily because of its history of not just high aca-
demics, but of encouraging students to vol-
unteer.
“President Fuchs is here for these stu-
dents,” he said. “He cares about their suc-cess.”
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines spoke on behalf of students. She said she has seen Fuchs embrace the Student Body throughout the week’s inauguration events.
“The students have embraced him right 
back,” she said.
After a rendition of “Amazing Grace” on 
the bagpipes by UF professor of music John Duff, Cornell University President Emeritus 
Frank Rhodes took to the lectern to introduce 
Fuchs.
He said while he and Fuchs were at Cor-nell, Fuchs was one of the best engineering deans he had ever known, and when Cornell was in need of a provost, he highly recom-mended Fuchs.
“He’s demonstrated that he’s superbly 
equipped to build upon (UF’s) strong founda-tion and bring it to even greater heights,” he said.
When it was finally Fuchs’ turn to speak, 
he shared a story of his love for the Florida sky.
He said he was nervous to hold graduation 
ceremonies outside in Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-
um in May. But when the time came, he said 
the sky turned into stunning shades of orange and blue. That day’s sky reminds him of his goal to bring UF to top-10 status.
He described his goals for UF, which in-
cluded recruiting more international students, creating a more diverse Student Body and having UF academics be just as nationally recognized as athletics.
“Together, let’s go forth to explore that or-
ange and blue horizon and beyond,” he said. Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
The main foyer of the new expansion to the Reitz Union, seen on Oct. 29, was designed with UF’s mas-
cot in mind. The railings on all three floors have alligator-shaped holes cut out, and the wooden ceiling is patterned to mimic the underbelly of a gator.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff  
Linda Fuchs, left, art historian and wife of UF President Kent Fuchs, watches his inau-guration ceremony with family on Friday.
Parts of Reitz Union to open in Spring
INAUGURATION,  from 
pg1Fuchs shared his goals for UF and his love for the Florida skyIt will cost $75 millionSOUNDS OF THE SEASON
By Carel Lajara
Alligator Contributing Writer
Will Kesling waved his ba-
ton, and the orchestra played as 
the choir sang Sunday night.  
“I’m dreaming of a white 
Christmas,” it chanted.
UF’s College of the Arts 
and School of Music hosted its 60th annual holiday concert, “Sounds of the Season: An American Holiday.” This year, UF President Kent Fuchs nar-rated Longfellow’s “Christmas Bells,” a holiday story of trag-edy and hope.
The Phillips Center for Per-
forming Arts was packed with attendees, who sat on fold-ing chairs on the second floor. More than 300 students and Gainesville locals performed with UF’s Concert Choir, UF Women’s Chorale, UF’s Sym-phony Orchestra and the 
Gainesville Master Chorale.
“Obviously folks love it,” 
Kesling said. “They pack this 
place every year.”
Before the show began, fami-
lies donned dress shirts and tights lined up for tickets.  They snaked past the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, flowing over 
into the parking lot. By the time 
doors opened at 6 p.m., the free tickets were all given out.
The UF Symphony Orches-
tra played traditional Christmas songs, like “O Come, All Ye Faithful” and “The Little Drum-mer Boy.”  The choirs, made of both the UF and local groups, 
harmonized as audience mem-bers smiled.  
After “Oh, Holy Night,” in 
which a solo singer’s voice rang through the auditorium, the au-
dience gave a standing ovation.
To conclude the evening, 
Fuchs narrated Longfellow’s “Christmas Bells,” which told the story of a man who lost his wife and struggled through the season. But Kesling said the story was one of hope because 
people can always find joy dur-
ing the holidays.
Fuchs said he was excited to 
participate for the first time and thought the event was a gift to the community.
It’s a wonderful part of the 
Gainesville community and a nice example of how the univer-
sity and the community come 
together, he said.
Kesling said the holiday con-
cert was important.
“You know how ugly the 
world is, right?” he said. “This is a chance to escape all that.”
The concert ended with a fi-
nal “hallelujah,” and the choir 
sang the Christmas carol. As 
audience members stood up to leave, they stopped in their aisles, and they listened to the last sound of the season.
Jamey Wright, who per-
formed “Hallelujah,” said she’s participated in the event for four years.
“I have to admit, at the end 
of the ‘Hallelujah’ chorus, I was tearing up,” the 21-year-old UF music senior said. “It was out-of-this-world incredible.”    UF president Fuchs 
narrates portion of 60th 
annual holiday concertMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Landlord and politically active 
Gainesville resident Jim Konish said he is 
filing for District 4 Commissioner today, 
just a few months ahead of city elections.
An outspoken and consistent presence 
at City Commission meetings, the 61-year-
old often gives passionate speeches on lo-
cal issues — much to the annoyance, in-
terest and amusement of commissioners.
“He has been a real, I would say, bull-
dog on the issue of our utility rates and calling attention to the rate escalation 
back under the previous commission,” 
Mayor Ed Braddy said.
A strong opponent against Gainesville 
Regional Utility rates, Konish said his 
campaign will focus primarily on work-
ing with other commissioners and the mayor to lower GRU bills through a five-part plan.
The initial parts of the plan include 
a forensic audit into the city’s biomass plant contract, which he strongly opposes and is adamant about getting out of. The plan also involves transferring the gar-
bage and stormwater fees on utility bills 
over to tax bills, among other steps.
Additionally, Konish said he wants 
to curtail funding for — and eventually privatize — Dignity Village and Grace Marketplace.
“It’s just been a complete failure in 
terms of the results delivered,” he said. “And they just want to expand on it.”
He said he would firmly send the mes-
sage that there won’t be any more in-
creases in the funding, and current fund-
ing would slowly reduce. Lastly, Konish said he will work to install buffer zones between high-density and low-density, 
single-family neighborhoods.
Commissioner Charles Goston com-
mended Konish for his research into and 
knowledge of local issues.
“A lot of times people don’t like to 
hear what Jim has to say, but 90 percent of the time, Jim is telling the truth,” Gos-ton said.
A longtime District 4 and Gainesville 
resident, Konish joins the race against Adrian Hayes-Santos, the director of the Entrepreneurship Master’s Program at UF, to fill the seat currently held by Ran-dy Wells.   Politically active GNV resident joins commission race 
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
The chapel went silent Saturday morning as 
a single candle was lit.
Inside the Bartley Temple United Method-
ist Church, the pews were filled with solemn 
faces as people from across the community 
came together to remember yet another group 
of victims.
Less than a week after a mass shooting at 
an environmental health department’s holiday party in San Bernardino, California, killed 14 people, the Rev. Milford Griner stood at a lec-tern and called for unity in the face of hate.As he prayed for the victims and their 
families, Griner’s condolences shifted to the Muslim-American community, which he said has been unfairly persecuted as of late over the actions of a few of its members. While the San Bernardino attackers, Tashfeen Malik and her husband Syed Farook, were Muslim Ameri-cans, they don’t represent their entire commu-
nity, Griner said.
“First of all, we have to get away from pre-
conceived notions and preconceived attitudes,” 
Griner said. “And the best way to do that is by coming together and having conversation.”
To spur a dialogue on Muslim relations in 
the community, Griner called on his friend, Dr. Saeed Khan, a retired UF professor and a Mus-lim American, to speak to the crowd of about 30 people.
“We all must come together — black, white, 
Muslim, rich, poor — in the face of these kinds of tragedies,” Griner said.
At the lectern, Khan prayed for the victims 
and his fellow Muslims. He read from the Quran and educated the crowd on its teach-
ings, which he said mirror that of all other 
faiths.
“In the eyes of God, we are all the same,” he 
said. “No one is superior over the other, except those who show piety and goodness.”
Sometimes, he said, it seems like society be-
comes numb to the plight of others.
“In one way, we are more interconnected than ever,” he said. “On the other hand, we are far removed from each other, living in our own universe.”
As the names of the 14 men and women 
who were killed in California were read aloud, the chapel was still. Afterward, the crowd joined Griner and Khan in singing “Amazing Grace.”
Moving forward, Griner said he would like 
to set up a seminar on Muslim-American rela-tions in the community.
“There’s too much division in many parts 
of our country because of one thing or another, because of things that could be resolved by coming together,” he said. “Instead, we di-vide.”
Local church mourns victims of California shootingAaron Albright / Alligator Staff Jim Konish
Landlord and longtime Gainesville resident; very active in city politics. Platform focuses on:• Lowering Gainesville Regional Utility rates.
• Defunding Dignity Village and Grace 
Marketplace and using those funds to 
improve infrastructure.
• Establishing buffer zones between low-density and high-density neighborhoods.
Adrian Hayes-Santos
Director of the Entrepreneurship Master’s Pro-gram at UF; holds undergraduate and master’s degrees from UF; held positions on Gainesville City Beautification Board, Regional Transit System Board, Downtown Community Rede-
velopment Agency Board and Alachua County 
Business and Economic Growth Task Force. Platform focuses on:
• Protecting neighborhoods
• Ensuring an economically vibrant downtown
• Preserving the environment
• Making a transportation system that works for everyone
• Expanding affordable high-speed 
broadband in the community
Katelyn Irvin / Alligator
ABOVE:  T ammy Paxton, a 37-year-old artist for Once Upon a Crayon, gazes at her painting of Sam and Dean 
Winchester from “Supernatural” while selling paintings on Sunday at the Craft Festival in the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center. Paxton said she is an analytical technician for Regeneration T echnologies Incorporated. 
RIGHT:  Artist Eleanor Blair paints a handcrafted bowl from an exhibit next to hers at the Gathering of the 
Artists at the Gainesville Woman’s Club on Sunday afternoon. Blair said she loves mingling with and being inspired by other artists at events like this.Lower GRU bills are his focus
“He has been a real, I would say, 
bulldog on the issue of our utility 
rates and calling attention to the rate 
escalation back under the previous 
commission.” 
Ed Braddy
mayorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Goodbye, Gainesville, and all of its lessons
Proust once wrote memory isn’t contained 
within us, but all around us, in the sea-sons that come and go and remind us the world goes on. And so every winter, I re-member the winters previous, going back 
to the ﬁ  rst one when I came to Gainesville, on the edge of beginning my so-called real life.
During Thanksgiving break, I reconnected 
with an old friend. In the years we hadn’t spo-ken, she married an Irishman she met on Reddit and moved to Texas. At the movie theater bar, she said the years felt like “a nightmarish blur.” Overlooking the Mission architecture of the University of Texas in Austin, she’d ask herself why she’d failed.
I don’t come from a literary family. Growing up, the only 
people I knew with a bachelor’s degree were high school teachers with a scent of failure on every word. My images of artists were Kafka and Chekhov dying of tuberculosis, pale-skin shriveled, eyelashes thick, eyes hollow. My Russian-Jewish father still feared poverty and taught writing as a God-given vocation — one I probably didn’t have. An aunt once told me, “If you don’t become a doctor, they will destroy you like they destroyed me.”
With this narcissistic view of beauty as everything that 
wasn’t realistic, UF was difﬁ  cult. A teacher of David Foster Wallace once said ﬁ  ction should “comfort the disturbed, and disturb the comfortable,” but in my classes, we were all grad-ed from B to A, leaving us all indistinguishable. I still don’t know if literature is an individual event, if, like Kafka wrote, it “must be the axe for the frozen sea inside us.”
We come to the defense of the humanities, but we don’t 
know why. Most students don’t care, and many teachers 
rely on PowerPoints and prioritize superﬁ  cial professional-
ism. But what stuck with me was not argument-making, but person-making. My Sartre notes read, “you exist because…”  and “sexual life as fear of being.” Beckett notes read, “the coming of a voice into being,” and “unknown even to her-self.” Orozco notes read, “death imminent for all life,” and “an ample I.” Depressed in Paris, I bore an intense gratitude for a Shakespeare professor’s preaching of risk and love. Studying Nazis’ self-exculpation, I questioned how I exculpated myself.
I remember walking home after a poetry work-
shop, invigorated by an hour spent on Anthony Hecht’s “The Cost,” amazed by youth’s wonder-
ful ignorance. I remember a ﬁ  ction professor’s 
assignments like, “Write about when the power balance in a relationship shifts,” or “When you ﬁ  rst saw your parents afraid,” or “Where you feel like yourself”; her lessons transformed how I saw my boyfriend, my family and myself.
These professors planted sloppy seeds, and I now cherish 
not the innumerable romanticism-realism-modernism time-lines, but an ethics of passionate contemplation.
Much of what mattered to me at UF wasn’t academic: 
drinking rum, dancing samba and gossiping in Acadian ac-cents after French linguistics; downing Four Lokos and mak-ing tacos after Marxist ﬁ  lm; afternoons at the springs with a transcendentalism classmate, cracking beers on a docked boat and wondering where real life was. And that’s ﬁ  ne. As medievalist Professor Watt once told me, the carnivalesque we admire is the silly, chaotic and ﬁ  lthy.
Yet I am so grateful for learning about cultural history and 
how narratology, dramatics and diction reﬂ  ect deep, contin-gent values. The poetics of storytelling translate into the sto-rytelling of life, and this is where we can really learn “What is the Good Life” by admiring the kindness and humanity of our professors, deﬁ  ning ourselves with and against our peers and being impractical in leafy, weird, little Gainesville.
To my old friend: Your resumé does not make you a fail-
ure. I hope in a secular world, we can still worship some-thing more. I hope we can care about our lives for more than 
one semester. I hope the liberal arts are more than an eco-
nomic product of World War II and the baby boom that’s lost its luster. I hope we can do more than compare ourselves on Facebook and LinkedIn, and learn to be at peace with our-selves, which — and I thank so many at UF for this — I am one step closer to.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.In the wake of Art 
Basel, the state 
of art needs to be 
evaluated
This past weekend saw the culmination of Art Basel, the 
weeklong centerpiece to Miami Art Week. All over the city, from Wynwood to South Beach, Miami residents 
and out-of-towners milled about, hoping to experience 
as much “culture” (depending on one’s deﬁ  nition of 
culture) as they could ﬁ  t into a week.
In the eyes of many, Art Basel represents the height of such 
culture — from street vendors and art galleries to famous musi-cians and secret shows, one would be hard-pressed to leave Art Basel without at least one insane tale of debauchery.
But as anyone who has ever been to Miami — much less Art 
Basel — could tell you, there is one thing that claims dominion 
over all of the city’s proceedings: money. In the 21 years since 
the Wu-Tang Clan rapped “C.R.E.A.M.” (Cash Rules Every-thing Around Me, for the uninformed), the inﬂ  uence of money over culture has become even more pronounced.  Even in street 
culture, the inﬂ  ux of money has transformed and commodiﬁ  ed 
several means of expression once thought unmarketable.
This is nothing new: One needs to look back no further than 
the ‘60s for a textbook example of how counterculture is co-opted. But as the wealth gap widens further, the relationship 
between art and money becomes more intertwined, and an ed-
ucation in the arts becomes a luxury. It is becoming apparent that a grave cultural threat is emerging: art becoming produced solely by the wealthy, for the wealthy.
This phenomenon is nothing new, nor is it restricted to Mi-
ami. As reported on in the Vice piece “No Money, No Space, No Time: How London Has Forced Out Musicians,” the con-stantly climbing cost of living, combined with Draconian hous-ing policies, has effectively rendered London — the city that 
gave the world David Bowie, The Clash and more — artistically 
neutered.
To those who would maintain otherwise, yes, the state of 
art in the U.K. does speak to our own issues here. In our global 
and interconnected world, it is impossible for the state of art 
in one cultural hub to not affect another. As far as Art Basel — and Miami by extension — was concerned, much of it was placed behind paywalls, both literal and implied. Invite-only events and secretive RSVPs proved to be the rule, rather than 
the exception.
We’re not naïve: Throwing large-scale events and compen-
sating artists for their labor is an expensive proposition. With 
that said, art, being an important and necessary means of hu-
man expression, should not be considered an indulgence re-
served solely for those with deep pockets. Furthermore, it is an injustice that only artists whose work is showcased in art galleries stocked with wine and cheese should be allowed to enjoy a degree of comfort. For the sake of our cultural health, 
art and capitalism should not — and cannot — become mutu-
ally exclusive.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
As a supporter of the presi-
dential candidate Gov. Jeb Bush, I am frequently 
asked about the polls that 
show outsiders out-pac-
ing establishment candidates by ever-increasing numbers. As well 
as the anti-Washington rhetoric of 
the election and about the throngs of people who show up to Trump-mania rallies. How can all of this be?
The answer I give to these inquiries is 
quick and simple: Republican Party primary-goers are kind of like college students.
Picture a typical Friday evening. The 
air is crisp. The bright lights of downtown 
establishments entice and lure the young 
and restless to their doors. You feel after a hard week of studying for organic chemistry and acquiring bad grades, you’ve earned a night of reckless inhibition. To make matters 
worse, you are still reeling from disappoint-
ment after your last romantic affair. Your ﬂ  ing seemed like it would last, but you re-main dismayed and disenchanted. The guy, 
Mitt, was nice and rich, but you didn’t have 
much in common with him.  
But now you’re at Club Caucus. One thing 
leads to another, and you start drinking. You feel if you indulge yourself, your grades, your 
social life and everything else in between will 
get better. And so you drink. Still not sooth-ing the pain over your last ﬂ  ing, you drink some more.
Things start to feel great. You approach 
people who you would typically never asso-ciate with. Like the guy with bad hair at the bar: He’s brash and crude and talks about how “huge” things are. You don’t want to 
be a loser, as he says, so you spend a good 
amount of time with him as he rants about the state of the university and how he would run UF better than the administrators who 
make awful deals. Maybe he can help you 
with your collegiate career. And in your in-dulgent state, what he says sounds reason-able and exciting.
But what about the guy near the front of 
the club? He looks bright, and he’s a medi-cal student — he can deﬁ  nitely help out with your difﬁ  cult chemistry homework. He seems like a nice guy: smart and slightly aloof. But 
then again, he makes all sorts of odd claims, like how Century Tower is used 
to store Gatorade. He also likens people to Nazis. You’re indulging, 
so you’re taking in what he says 
and silently nodding your head.
Then comes the inevitable 
thought of the evening: Oh, God! 
What am I doing?
You start to sober up. Yes, your 
grades are not great and your last 
ﬂ  ing did not turn out so well. But the guys 
you just met are not going to solve any of 
those problems. They may sound like they 
might help, but you’re starting to realize these are some sketchy characters.
The purpose of this parable is to convey 
that GOP primary-goers, like students, are indulgent.
The last nominee, Mitt Romney, wasn’t 
Mr. Right, literally. He leaned left on many issues. So, Republicans became swept up 
with fantasies and became overindulgent. 
A fantasy candidate — a sort of brash, brag-gadocious, overly strong leader — will make things better. Rhetoric that would usually 
read as red ﬂ  ags seem permissible in the 
GOP’s altered, drunken state.
But then comes the inevitable sobering 
up. This typically comes with entering a bal-lot booth. When pressed, Republicans get it 
together and become pragmatic. At the end 
of the day, the goal of a GOP primary is to win a national election.  
Just like college students, the GOP be-
comes overindulgent far too often. Remem-ber 2012? 
Around this time, we were swept up with 
Michele Bachmann-mania and Herman Cain-mania and Newt Gingrich-mania and Rick 
Santorum-mania. Primary-goers were in an 
altered state, but with some sleep, water and a good shower, they eventually sobered up.
Who became the nominee? Mitt Romney.  
All in all, I say let the early primary vot-
ers have their fun. They have to wait another 
four years to become this excited again. I am conﬁ  dent the primary-goers will choose a re-sponsible and great nominee. Rest assured, 
the GOP nominee won’t be the kind of char-
acter you would meet at Midtown.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.GOP Primary race is like MidtownColumn
Mass shootings have be-come so frequent it is difﬁ  cult to keep track 
of them. With the San 
Bernardino shooting, 
the U.S. has seen 355 shootings this year according to The Wash-
ington Post. What distinguishes 
this shooting from the rest of them is the shooters’ association with the terror group Daesh.
Shootings happen all the time, and even 
the slaughter of children at Sandy Hook El-ementary School was not enough to prompt Congressional action on this issue. But per-haps this time, any action taken won’t be 
prompted by fear of death by lone wolves, 
but rather by Islamophobia. 
Because these shooters were Muslim, 
their actions will be seen as part of a bigger pattern of Islamic terror. While this may be 
the case, that doesn’t mean the ease of gun 
availability did not play a role in facilitating this tragedy. This might be the shooting that prompts action, because it is being viewed 
as terrorism and not an isolated incident 
with a mentally ill shooter, as the typical narrative on TV pushes forward.
Of course, white male shooters are 
widely considered to be mentally disturbed. 
Something must be wrong with them; it’s 
deﬁ  nitely not their easy access to guns, because true bad guys will get to the guns anyway.
However, this has proven not to be the 
case. Earlier this year, CNN reported the families of the Sandy Hook victims were suing the estate of the perpetrator’s mother — herself a victim of the shooting — be-
cause she had acquired the weapons legally, 
and they believe her negligence enabled the shooting.
So many shootings involve legal guns 
that were either misplaced or used by the owner in ways that were deemed unantici-pated. It’s true as it stands now, it would probably be impossible to regulate all guns — many who want to get a gun illegally can 
ﬁ  nd one.
In the New York Times' coverage of the 
San Bernardino shooting, it wrote the guns 
used were legally acquired, even though 
California is widely considered to have some of the strictest gun laws in 
the country. 
There has to be a way to pre-
vent these shootings. While some are trying to shift the focus from how the guns were acquired to the shooting’s connection to in-
ternational terrorism, this is not 
the correct approach. The U.S. doesn’t have an ISIS-related gun 
problem: It has a gun problem — period. Each time there is a shooting, the urgency 
to prevent these incidents should increase. 
There should not just be prayers and empty hope that this will not happen again. These will not prevent future shootings: Gun con-
trol will. Not everyone who owns a gun 
will use it for nefarious purposes. But, ev-eryone who does purchase a gun needs to go through some sort of screening to ensure they bought their weapon legally — this 
could decrease the amount of shady charac-
ters who purchase guns.  
Despite the fact that the shootings were 
potentially inspired by ISIS, our pathetically relaxed gun laws allow such mass shootings to occur. Our laws enable shooters to ac-quire weapons easily, even with gun-control 
laws becoming stricter. Gun violence still 
happens, and the incidents this year alone are close to outnumbering days in a year. Not being able to get guns legally may very 
well act as a deterrent.
The fact that these shooters were Muslim 
should not discount the impact of their ac-
tions. It doesn’t explain it, and their ties to ISIS did not make this an inevitability.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science soph-
omore. Her column appears on Mondays.Legal guns are used in crimes, tooColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org
“It's true as it stands 
now, it would probably 
be impossible to regulate 
all guns  — many who 
want to get a gun 
illegally can ind one.”MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
 
Four-year-old Olivia Wood, left, and 6-year-old Isabel Wood tell Santa their Christmas wishes during the annual Holiday Tree Lighting ceremony at the Historic Thomas Center on Saturday. “They’re always super excited for Christmas, ” said Ligia Wood, a web designer and the girls’ mother.
THERE WAS LIVE MUSIC 
AND A 20-FOOT TREE.
By Carel Lajara
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Saturday night, most people 
just wanted a picture of their chil-
dren — and a 20-foot Christmas tree.
The tree was the centerpiece for 
the annual Holiday Tree Lighting celebration at the Historic Thomas Center. More than 1,200 people came to the event, which was host-ed by the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs De-partment.
Mayor Ed Braddy gave a short 
speech before leading the audience 
in a countdown, and the tree was 
lit.  
The giant tree, its decorations 
and holiday decorations around the building are provided annually by the Thomas Center Associates, said facilities coordinator Erica Chat-man.
“My favorite part is seeing how 
many families are able to come out,” said Chatman, who also brought cider and cookies. “It is a free event, so it is very accessible.”
In the past, the event has gener-
ally featured traditional horse car-riage rides, sponsored by the Duck Pond Neighborhood Association. But this year, no vender could be found with large enough wagons to 
accommodate the huge amount of 
people who wanted to ride, said Da-vid Ballard, the Gainesville events coordinator.
“It’s a shame we don’t have it,” 
said Ballard, who called it a won-derful addition to the event.
However, the absence of horse 
carriages didn’t dim the Christmas 
spirit, as a long line of children 
waiting to meet Santa extended through the room and out the door. There was also live music by the Gainesville Harmony Show Chorus, the Singers of the Reformation and the Gypsy Guerrilla Band.
For Haidee Cano, 22, the choir 
was the highlight of the evening.
“If they come back, I will be 
back,” she said. “I love them so much.”No carriages at annual 
tree lighting ceremony
HOLIDAYS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
At sundown, Josh Greenspan lit 
his menorah as his family lit theirs 
miles away.
Sunday was the first night of Ha-
nukkah, the eight-day Jewish fes-tival of lights. It was also the first time the UF sports management 
freshman was celebrating away 
from home, so FaceTime allowed him to light a menorah at the same time as his family in South Florida.
The 18-year-old then joined hun-
dreds of Jewish Gators on the sec-ond floor of the Swamp Restaurant to eat jelly-filled doughnuts, latkes and other oily foods traditionally 
eaten during Hanukkah. The dinner 
was hosted by the Jewish Student Union and UF Hillel.
“It’s a different experience, but 
I’m not, like, sad or anything,” 
Greenspan said.
During Hanukkah, it’s tradition-
al to eat foods full of oil because 
during the rededication of a Jewish 
temple in the second century B.C., 
oil was needed to keep a menorah burning through the night. With only one jar of oil left, the oil lasted for eight days and eight nights until 
a new batch was made.
Within about half an hour, how-
ever, the food was gone.
More students showed up than 
expected, said Jonah Stein, the JSU 
president. He said the party had enough food for 250 people.
The night’s event cost about 
$1,500; $700 went toward food, 
$200 went toward a live guitarist 
and $600 went toward renting out the restaurant’s back deck.
“It’s packed,” the 20-year-old 
biochemistry junior said. “We ran out of food very fast.”
Regardless, Stein said, it felt 
great to have such a large turnout, which he credited to the large num-
ber of Jewish students at UF.
For Valerie Berman, a 20-year-
old UF pre-nursing sophomore, 
Sunday night was also the first time 
she celebrated Hanukkah away 
from home because last year, the holiday was during winter break. She said the food reminded her of the Hanukkah celebrations back 
home.
“And it’s also an excuse to cheat 
on your diet during finals,” she said, 
with an empty plate in front of her.Dinner 
brings Jewish students together
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
As she took pictures with children Friday 
night, Cami Hall never broke character.
Dressed in a sparkly dress and a white 
wig, the UF business sophomore was Elsa 
for the night.
As part of Light the Village, an annual 
Christmas festival held at the Haile Village 
Center, the 19-year-old posed for photos as 
the princess from the Disney movie “Fro-zen.”
On the other end of the village, through 
a cluster of lights and candy-cane columns, two percheron horses tugged a carriage around the block.
“It does feel like a fairy tale,” she said.The center is home to about 800 resi-
dents, who either live in single-family homes 
or condominiums, and has hosted a Christ-
mas festival every year for about a decade, said Rick Medina, the manager of the village center. He estimated throughout the night, 
at least 3,000 people wandered around the 
complex — more than any other year.
The event, which was funded by the cen-
ter and the River Cross Church, cost about $2,500 to put together, Medina said.
“It doesn’t get any better than this,” he said, looking on as the horses click-clacked 
down the street, about a dozen visitors in 
tow.
Jack and Maureen Wicks have been com-
ing to Light the Village for about 11 years, since they first moved to Gainesville from 
Maryland. The only difference between this 
year and years past, they said, was the larger turnout.
To this day, they said, their favorite part 
of the festival is watching young families en-joy themselves.
Maureen, 67, said it’s important for peo-
ple to understand the real meaning behind the holiday season and not to be overcome 
with consumerism.
“Christmas should be L-O-V-E instead of 
S-A-L-E,” she said.Night of lights: Christmas festival draws thousands
Joyce Lillquist plays the chorded zither while her husband Jim plays the hammer dulcimer during 
the annual Holiday Tree Lighting ceremony at the Historic Thomas Center on Saturday. The Gypsy Guerrilla Band, composed of the couple, performed a variety of holiday tunes.About 3,000 people came throughoutABOVE:
General contractor Lenny Spraque holds his 4-year-old daughter Madison while waiting in line to talk to San-ta at the Historic Thomas Center on Saturday. 
LEFT:
Gainesville Mayor Ed Brad-dy, left, presents the holiday tree at the Historic Thomas Center as it is lit up for the season on Saturday.
Photos by Andrea Cornejo
Alligator Staff BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.Bike to UF through-tree lined streets orride the bus located one block away!No application fee, most pets ok.E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 orwww.efnproperties.comrentals@efnproperties.com1-5-15-74-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
12-9-15-17-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-13
14 Help Wanted 
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOEThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-1412 Autos
1. Who was the last Yankees rookie 
pitcher before Masahiro Tanaka and 
Dellin Betances in 2014 to be named 
to the A.L. All-Star team?
2. In 2014, the Dodgers’ Clayton 
Kershaw became the third pitcher 
since 1914 to win eight consecutive 
games while striking out at least sev-en batters in each one. Name the other two.
3. Roddy White set a record in 
2014 for most career TD receptions 
in Atlanta Falcons history. Who had 
held the mark?
4. When was the last time before 
the 2014-15 season that Villanova’s men’s basketball team started a sea-
son 13-0? 
5. Name the last player younger than 
Florida’s Aaron Ekblad (19 in 2015) 
to win the NHL’s Calder Trophy (top rookie).
6. Which team holds the Major 
League Soccer record for most ties in a season?
7. What was heavyweight boxer 
Evander Holyfield’s record when he 
lost his first pro fight, and to whom 
did he lose?
Answers
1. Spec Shea, in 1947.
2. The Dodgers’ Sandy Koufax 
(1966) and the Giants’ Juan Marichal 
(1967).
3. Terance Mathis, with 57 TD 
receptions (1994-2001).
4. It was the 1937-38 season.5. Bobby Orr was 18 years old when 
he won the Calder Trophy in 1967.
6. Chicago had 18 ties during the 
2014 season.
7. Holyfield was 28-0 when he lost 
to Riddick Bowe in 1992.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
December 7, 2015 King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Supplier of fake
tunnels to Wile E.
Coyote
5 Dictionary entry
9 Attempt to scam
using email
14 Small songbird15 “Am __ early?”
16 Saul Bellow’s
“The Adventures
of __ March”
17 *One held above
criticism
19 Gossip spreader
20 What push may
come to
21 *Magician’s
secret exit
23 1953 Alan Ladd
Western
24 Subject in which
Freud is studied,
briefly
25 Boring routine
26 Ballpoint, for 
one
27 Goose egg
29 Popular
thesaurus
31 Most populous
continent
33 Sign offering
freebies
36 Day ender on
Wall Street ...and, literally,
what each
answer to astarred clue has
39 Hyundai sedan40 Increase
dramatically
43 Bearded spring
blooms
46 List shortener, for
short
48 Carry a balance
49 Lion’s lair50 Set one’s sights
on
53 Caught with a
lasso
55 *Swanson frozen
meal
57 Closet pests
58 Made public
59 *Traditional
62 Blinding driving
hazard
63 Dam in a stream
64 Giggly Muppet65 “Night Moves”
singer Bob
66 Ginger cookie
67 Rod companionDOWN
1 Reactions to
puppies and
kittens
2 Falls asleep from
exhaustion, inslang
3 Pit crew worker4 Scandal-plagued
energy company
5 Like EEE shoes6 Needing no Rx7 Carrots and
turnips
8 Bridal estate
9 Obsolescent
streetcornercommunication
device
10 Tinted11 Give the cold
shoulder to
12 Take a break
from
13 Valentine symbols18 Not odd22 One in a human
pyramid
23 Mud bath site
24 Ordinary
28 “That’s just
wrong”
30 Takes shape
32 Tavern orders34 Round Table
VIP: Abbr.35 “Snowy” bird
37 Poisonous
ornamental
38 Contract
ambiguity toexploit
41 More than cool42 VIP carpet color43 Dog collar
attachments
44 Malign45 Wearing
opposite-sexclothing47 Gator cousin51 Cat calls52 “Over the
Rainbow”composerHarold
54 Significant __56 “Able was __ ...”:
palindrome start
57 Dealership
sticker fig.
60 Day, in Spain61 “u r 2 funny!”
By Debbie Ellerin
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/07/1512/07/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, December 7, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Fulfilled
11 Powerful engine
15 Prior name of
Burkina Faso
16 Understanding
words
17 Raises may be
tied to one
18 Opinion piece
19 First name in
1950s politics
20 Chemical
relative
22 Key with one
flat: Abbr.
25 Slumgullion, for
one
27 Remove
28 Washington’s
forte?
30 “I Love Music”
group, with“The”
32 Grandpa
Munsterportrayer
33 Big ape34 Ltr. extender
37 Birdwatcher’s
lure
38 Point in the
wrong direction
40 Sam Spade,
e.g.
41 Wrong
43 Fawning44 Night calls46 Understanding
words
47 Gushing flattery49 1994 Polka
Music Hall ofFame inductee
51 Eastern 
holidays
52 Feels sorry for54 Landlocked
Asian country
56 Arbitrary stake57 Pine Tree State
college town
62 One still
maturing
63 Most common
dolphin
64 Clarify, with
“out”
65 A.1., for oneDOWN
1 Sports prize
2 Patriots’ Day
mo.
3 Home of the
NCAAEngineers
4 Took back5 Hot6 Demon7 Gives8 Number from
the past
9 Off-road
traveler, for
short
10 Sitcom set in a
garage
11 Misty
12 “The American
Crisis” author
13 Assistance 
trio?
14 Hugo title word21 Marine
bioluminescence
22 First try
23 Free-for-all
24 Blather
26 Romance
29 Way more than
cool31 Oregon Treaty
president
35 Experimental
36 Diving ducks39 Ballerina
Zakharova
42 Sydney’s state:
Abbr.
43 Team
characteristic?
45 Familiarize47 Fancy footwear48 “Exodus” actor50 Online 
reminder
53 Bad news
reactions
55 Skunk River city58 Spoil59 Obligatory
letters
60 White House
advisory gp.
61 Wide size
By Barry C. Silk
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/05/1512/05/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, December 5, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
1-8-15-11-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring 
deli/bar help. No experience required. Must have reliable transportation. Applications ac-cepted at either 2327 NW 13th St or 5156 SW 34th St location.   12-9-15-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 23 Rides 18 Personals 15 ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Nick Saban and the 
Alabama Crimson Tide downed  the Gators 29-15 in the SEC Championship Game. Check out our photo story, see pg. 14. By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
ATLANTA — The last time 
Florida had a punt and a ﬁ  eld goal 
blocked in the same game was 
against South Carolina last season, 
ultimately costing former coach Will Muschamp his job.
Against Alabama in the South-
eastern Conference title game, it cost the Gators a chance to win the SEC and to upset the No. 2 team in the country. 
Punter Johnny Townsend contin-
ued his fantastic season against the Crimson Tide as he averaged 51.8 yards per punt with ﬁ  ve of those go-
ing for 50 yards or more.
But in the ﬁ  rst quarter, 
Townsend’s punt was blocked when 
Alabama dialed up an all-out blitz. 
The ball trickled past the endzone, 
and the end result was two points on the scoreboard for the Crimson Tide.
“Threw a no-hitter on the ﬁ  rst 
overloaded punt block that we prac-
ticed like 10,000 times, it seems like, 
in practice,” UF coach Jim McElwain said. “I think the shock and awe of the size and speed might have 
got them a little bit, but we settled 
down, and it didn’t kill us.”And then there’s the curious case 
of Austin Hardin. 
He’s a guy who has been great 
at kickoffs this season — he has 29 touchbacks on 44 kickoffs — but he’s someone who can’t kick the ball 
through what McElwain calls “the 
yellow things." Even worse than that, Hardin can’t kick them high enough to get them over the line to get to the goal posts.
It was the same deal for Har-
din against the Crimson Tide in his hometown. After Treon Harris con-nected with Antonio Callaway on a 
46-yard strike, Hardin lined up for 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Alligator Sports Brand Picks Column ﬁ  nds its winner
After 14 grueling weeks of intense competition, the Picks Column has 
found a winner in Gator Country's Nick De La T orre. With a record of 59-51-2, De La T orre bested Alligator managing/online editor Jordan McPherson by just one game. Thomas Goldkamp finished in last place. JUST SOME HACK
ATLANTA 
After Satur-
day’s loss in the South-eastern Con-ference title 
game, Gator fans will be split into two camps.
In one group, 
there will be fans who believe 
this season was far better than 
they could have possibly hoped 
for.
No matter how it ended, this 
season was a success based on 
what was expected in the offsea-
son and what the team had to deal with during the year.
In the other group, there 
will be fans whose expectations 
changed midway through the 
year when they saw what this team could be: a team capable 
of winning the SEC and getting 
into the College Football Play-off.
And after seeing that poten-
tial, the ensuing demise of the offense and the regression of the team as a whole is a bitter pill to swallow, no matter what the expectations originally were.
To save you all from having 
this debate over the dinner table at Christmas, I’m here to tell you both groups are right.
This season wasn’t just a 
success — it was far more than that. A success would have been anything more than seven wins.
If you had told 
any Gator fan that Florida would ﬁ  nish the season with 10 wins and a 29-15 loss 
to the No. 2 team in 
the country in the SEC title game, they 
would have snatched that up 
in a heartbeat after questioning 
your sanity.
In fact, most of the team 
probably would have taken that deal, too.
It’s OK to feel happy with 
what the Gators accomplished in McElwain’s ﬁ  rst year.
But on the other hand, it’s 
also OK to lament what could have been.
Chances at conference and 
national titles only come every so often, and you can’t afford to 
waste them. There's no denying 
that this Gators team blew its opportunity.
After thumping then-No. 
3 Ole Miss at home on Oct. 3, there was a shift of mentality for Florida. This was no longer a team that just had a chance to be better than expectations 
— this was a team poised for a 
title run.
The defense was, without 
question, championship caliber, 
and it remained so for the rest Florida's unpredictable 
season was both a triumph 
and a wasted opportunity
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway returns a punt 85 yards for a touchdown during Florida's 29-15 loss to 
Alabama in the Southeastern Conference Championship Game on Saturday in  Atlanta's Georgia Dome. 
Special teams a mixed bag in Atlanta
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Following their matchup with a perennial 
cellar dweller, the Gators will now face a con-
test with the cream of the Sun Belt Conference crop. 
Florida (6-1) traveled just past the state 
line to face South Alabama (2-4) six days ago, capping off a brutal four-games-in-eight-days stretch. The Jaguars of USA haven’t made the Sun Belt Conference tournament in two years, 
but still played well enough to take a lead into 
halftime against UF.
Now, with nearly a full week of rest, the 
Gators will welcome the Arkansas State Red Wolves to Gainesville for a game tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center. 
ASU (4-1) boasts a winning record heading 
into tonight’s matchup as well as two trips in a row to the Sun Belt Conference Tournament ﬁ  nals, which it lost both 
times. 
Florida, while certainly 
getting quality minutes out 
of upperclassmen like junior Ronni Williams and redshirt senior Carlie Needles, has 
managed to get major con-tributions from underclass-men Haley Lorenzen, Dyan-
dria Anderson and Eleanna Christinaki. 
Arkansas State, on the other hand, relies 
heavily on upperclassmen.
In fact, all ﬁ  ve of its projected starters are seniors. 
Led by redshirt senior guard Aundrea Gam-
ble, who UF coach Amanda Butler described as “easily a pro,” and her 17.6 points per game, the Red Wolves currently feature three players averaging double-ﬁ  gure scoring in Gamble, se-nior guard Jessica Flanery and senior forward Khadija Brown-Haywood. 
Interestingly, though, not one of the ﬁ  ve se-
nior starters measures more than six feet tall. 
Brown-Haywood, who is the tallest at 5-foot-
11, leads the team in rebounding with 8.4 per game. However, ASU does have an option to UF women's basketball back home to face Arkansas State
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15SEE SPECIAL TEAMS,  PAGE 15
Gators have won six-straight
Butler
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2414   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
Alabama’s Derrick Henry (2) rushes past UF’s Bryan Cox Jr. (94) 
and Matt Rolin (25). Henry was named the game’s most valuable player after rushing for 189 yards and a touchdown on 44 carries.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
BELOW: Alabama wide receiver ArDarius Stewart catches a 32-yard touchdown between UF’s Vernon 
Hargreaves and Marcus Maye during the Crimson Tide’s 29-15 win over the Gators on Saturday.
Alabama rolls in SEC Title game
Alabama football coach Nick Saban celebrates with his players after winning the SEC Championship Game. With the win, the Crimson Tide became the first team to win back-to-back SEC titles since T ennessee won two straight in 1997 and 1998.Alabama’s Jarran Reed bats down a pass from Treon Harris at the line of scrimmage. Harris completed just nine of his 24 passes for 165 yards while also being sacked five times.MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
of the year. But at that point, you 
could see the offense finally figur-ing out McElwain’s scheme and 
beginning to flourish.
Quarterback Will Grier was 
developing alongside young play-
makers, and the Gators could at-
tack opposing defenses in various 
ways for the first time in years.
With the continued growth that unit would have undergone through the final months of the 
year, McElwain and Co. should 
have had a complete team capa-ble of beating LSU on Oct. 17 and Alabama on Saturday, plus play-
ing a close game at worst with 
Florida State on Nov. 28.
But instead, Grier got himself 
suspended and the rest of the of-fense slowly returned to its for-
mer self.
Any semblance of an offensive pulse would have given Florida 
a chance to win Saturday, but it 
couldn’t even muster that.
No matter the expectations, 
that should warrant frustration.
That encapsulates UF’s sea-
son — better than it should have 
been, but not what it could have been.
You can chose to dwell on one 
side or the other, but you can’t ig-
nore the fact that the season had 
both.COLUMN,  from pg13
add defensive enforcement off the bench if 
need be.
That defensive presence is courtesy of 
sophomore forward Lauren Bradshaw, who is 6-foot-2 and leads the team in blocks with six. 
As far as UF’s plan for combatting the vet-
eran squad, Butler says that what jumps out when scouting Arkansas State isn’t one specif-ic area of the game, but rather its competence across the board. 
“I’ve been very impressed with them in ev-
ery regard,” she said.
“The way that they’re coached, the things 
that they do, individually how talented they 
are and how well each one of them does the 
job with such purpose. They’re just a very, very talented team — very well balanced.”
Lorenzen said that in tonight’s game, the 
key for the Gators is discipline and composure — two things she said were lacking in the first half against South Alabama but were recov-ered in the second. 
“Learning what we have learned from 
South Alabama and when things haven’t gone our way, learning how to be disciplined and being composed is really important to beating Arkansas State,” she said. 
Needles, who is not only a statistical con-
tributor but also one of the team’s unques-tioned leaders, added that another layer to con-quering the Red Wolves will be relying on the team’s upperclassmen to enforce the discipline 
and composure that Lorenzen talked about.
“We need to make sure that their experi-
ence doesn’t overpower the experience on our 
team,” she said.W-HOOPS,  from pg13The Red Wolves do not start a player taller than 5-foot-11 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF redshirt senior Carlie Needles drives to the basket during Florida's 99-34 win over Savannah State on Nov.  24 in the 
O'Connell Center. 
a 40-yard field goal, which was 
blocked by the Crimson Tide.
He’s now five-of-14 on the sea-
son with three of those attempts blocked. For his career, Hardin is now 16-of-36, a putrid field goal conversion rate of just 44.4 per-
cent.
“We’ll get worked on this kick-
ing thing, and somebody will get 
it up over the line far enough that maybe somebody doesn’t block it 
with their armpit,” McElwain said.
After his field goal attempt was 
blocked, McElwain replaced Har-
din with walk-on Neil MacInnes 
who nailed the lone extra point at-
tempted by the Gators.
Now, back to Callaway. He also had a scare when he let 
a first-quarter punt from JK Scott 
take an extra bounce before he 
muffed it. 
Luckily for Callaway and the 
Gators, the freshman wide receiver 
pounced on it.
However, Callaway made up 
for his mistake in the second quar-
ter. He took a Scott punt 85 yards for a touchdown to give Florida a 
7-2 lead. 
His return was the longest punt 
return for a touchdown in the his-
tory of the SEC Championship game.
His return also made some UF 
history, as he became the sixth player to have multiple punt re-
turns for touchdowns in a season. 
Callaway’s return numbers have been impressive this season: He ranks in the top 10 in the coun-try in returns (second, 28), yards 
(third, 435), punt return average 
(sixth, 15.54), touchdowns (t-second, two), returns per game (t-fourth, 2.2) and yards per game 
(fourth, 33.5 yards).
Callaway’s production on of-
fense and special teams is one of 
the reasons why McElwain is fond of him.
“He’s one that affects the people 
around him, including the coaches, in a positive way,” McElwain said. 
“This guy’s got a couple of re-
ally good years left for the Gators.”
Callaway’s impact on offense 
and on special teams has been im-mense. 
But even he’s been surprised at 
the amount of success he’s had and he’ll have one more game this year to continue to show out for Florida.
“I just work hard everyday,” 
Callaway said. 
“Seniors like Valdez Showers, 
and (Vernon) Hargreaves pushing me everyday to get better. I knew I was coming in to play, but I wasn’t 
really expecting to have a big one.”Callaway has two punt 
returns for touchdowns
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks off the field after Florida's 29-15 loss to Alabama in the Southeastern 
Conference Champioship Game on Saturday at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. SPECIAL TEAMS,  from pg13going in the right direction to the 
younger guys,” Poole said. “We re-ally know what it is to kind of clamp down on what we’re doing and just pretty much keep getting better.”
The Mindset
Already in the midst of a solid 
freshman season, Callaway walks into McElwain’s office. Players stop by all the time. 
Sometimes, it’s to talk about the 
upcoming game. More often, though, they simply want a heart-to-heart with their head coach.
McElwain invites Callaway in 
with open arms, just like he does all of his players — from the All-American to the backup on the scout teams. They’re his kids before his football players, and a father only 
wants the best for his children.
After they talk, McElwain makes 
sure Callaway doesn’t leave hungry.
He pulls out a loaf of bread and 
jars of peanut butter and jelly. With 
a plastic knife — or a spoon when the plasticware supply is short — McElwain, meticulously spreads the peanut butter all the way to the edge 
of the crust, just like his mom taught 
him.
Then, Callaway breaks the news 
to his coach: He doesn’t eat crust.
“At least he leaves me some 
scraps so I can have a little some-thing,” McElwain said. 
This is one of the numerous ways 
McElwain connects with each player on a personal level.
McElwain has preached the im-
portance of family to his team this year. Individual success is great, he says, but how you make your team-mates better speaks volumes.
That’s why Kelvin Taylor received 
an emotional lashing after making a throat-slashing gesture against East Carolina.
That’s why Demarcus Robinson, 
a player McElwain said has come far-ther than anyone else, was demoted for two games and suspended for a third.
And that’s why starting quarter-
back Will Grier was not only for-given but embraced after he was 
suspended for one year for violating 
the NCAA’s performance-enhancing 
drug policy.
The Set-up
Jim McElwain thought the phone 
call from Nick Saban was a joke.
It was late January 2008, and 
McElwain had just finished a 9-4 
year as offensive coordinator at 
Fresno State, a season in which the 
Bulldogs finished 38th in the coun-try in total offense. He had 21 years of coaching experience to that point. None of it, however, was near the caliber of what Saban was about to offer him: offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at national pow-erhouse University of Alabama.
“When he first called, I actually 
might have hung up thinking it was one of my buddies busting my chops, not knowing they had a job open,” McElwain said. “I was just really ex-cited he called back.”
On Feb. 1, he accepted the offer.He was now learning under the 
same coach who helped develop 
successful head coaches in Flori-
da State’s Jimbo Fisher, Michigan State’s Mark Dantonio and the Dallas Cowboys’ Jason Garrett.
But Saban simply wanted McEl-
wain to be himself.
He told the Montana family man 
that he’d be successful if he followed 
two instructions: Work hard, and be 
complete in what you do.
“It was the same thing my dad 
told me,” McElwain said. “That was pretty easy to work under.”
On the outside, Saban and McEl-
wain are polar opposites.
Saban, the teacher, is stern, mat-
ter-of-fact and to the point.
McElwain, the student, lets his 
whimsy show each time he speaks to the media, cracking jokes and tell-
ing stories about his old cars (a 1972 
sweet-pea green Pinto) and one-hit wonders (one of his personal favor-ites is The Cyrkle’s  “Red Rubber Ball”).
But on the inside, they’re practi-
cally one in the same. The attention to detail, the interaction with the players, the structure. The execution 
almost identical.
“Every guy’s a little different, so 
the way you handle those individu-
als is gonna need to be different as well,” said Greg McElroy, a former Alabama quarterback under Saban and McElwain and now an analyst with the SEC Network. “I feel that’s part of being a leader, and both guys 
do a really nice job of getting the 
most out of their players.” 
The external juxtaposition and 
internal harmony between McElwain and Saban created a smooth work-ing environment. In McElwain’s four years as offensive coordinator, Alabama went a combined 48-6 and won national titles in 2009 and 2011. 
Outside of his first season, McElwain 
never fielded an offense that ranked worse than 43rd nationally in total offense or 21st in scoring offense while Saban crafted four years of top-five defenses.“He’s a great teacher. He’s inno-
vative in terms of some of the things he does and some of the problems he creates,” Saban said of McElwain. “I think he coaches with discipline and works hard to get his players to ex-
ecute things the right way.”
On Dec. 13, 2011, McElwain pre-
pared to take his innovative mindset back west when he was named the 
next head coach at Colorado State. It was his first opportunity to build his own program, his first chance to accomplish what Saban has in Tus-caloosa.
Before McElwain left for the Cen-
tennial State, Saban gave him one final piece of advice:
“Mac, whatever you do, make 
sure you do it with your personality and put your thumbprint on it.”
In three years at Colorado State, 
a period dubbed “A Bold New Era,” McElwain took the Rams from a pe-rennial sub-.500 team to Mountain West Conference champions in his final year.
UF athletics director Jeremy Foley 
took notice. On Dec. 2, 2014 — three days after the conclusion of the 2014 regular season and the four-year Will Muschamp era in Gainesville — Fol-ey travelled to Fort Collins, Colorado.
Three days later, McElwain land-
ed in Gainesville.
The Wake-up call
In the early going of his head 
coaching tenure, McElwain has still been unable to crack Saban.
In 2013, Saban and the Crimson 
Tide rolled to a 31-6 win against a 
McElwain-led Colorado State team 
on the rise.
Saturday’s SEC Championship 
Game served as deja vu.
Saban seemed a step ahead of 
Florida for all 60 minutes, as if he read McElwain’s calls before he even knew what he wanted to do.
Florida quarterback Treon Har-ris takes the snap and seconds later, three defensive linemen are already in his face. The running game never got off the ground, with Florida’s 15 
yards being its worst total since los-
ing 19 yards on the ground against Georgia on Oct. 29, 2011 — a span of 55 games.
The defense never got off the field, 
playing 84 snaps as Alabama domi-nated the time of possession 43:29-16:31. Heisman Trophy frontrunner Derrick Henry wore the Gators down with each of his 44 rushing attempts. Gains of 4- and 5-yards early on be-came as long as 14, 19 and 21 in the 
final 20 minutes of play.
The loss capped a five-game 
stretch to end the regular season 
where Florida went 3-2 and looked like anything but the potential Col-lege Football Playoff team they could 
have been.
The defense has remained stout, 
but the offense has become anemic.
Following the win against Geor-
gia, UF’s offense has averaged just 
271.2 yards, dropping them to 109th in total offense this season, worse than every offense under Muschamp except for the 2013 season.
“There’s a lot of disappointed guys 
in that locker room, and it was good to see,” McElwain said following the game. “Because as you go through life, you got ups. You got downs. … They never backed down.”
The Expectations
Florida players didn’t even know 
how far they could go at the start of the season.
The mantra is always champion-
ship or bust. The sky is the limit. But 
outside of the 2012 season that ended 
in a Sugar Bowl berth, the Gators had folded by midseason in each of their four seasons under Muschamp.
“Sometimes you need people to 
doubt you because the worst thing you can do to somebody is doubt them,” defensive lineman Joey Ivie said before the season. “That just 
makes you more hungry.”
Then the wins began piling up.
A 31-24 win against East Carolina, 
a game McElwain still vehemently says Florida should have lost.
A 28-27 come-from-behind vic-
tory against Tennessee, where the Gators won on a last-minute 63-yard catch-and-run from Callaway and brought Florida back into the AP Top-25 for the first time in more than two years. 
A 38-10 blowout over then-No. 
3 Ole Miss, highlighted by four first-half passing touchdowns by Grier and four turnovers by the defense.
“I guess the more we started win-
ning, the more the confidence grew and ‘oh wow we can really do this,’” cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III said. “It was that type of vibe in the locker room.”
Before they knew it, the Florida 
team projected by media to finish fifth in the SEC East swept its six di-vision games.
McElwain became the first Flori-
da football coach to reach the 10-win plateau in his inaugural season.
Fans believed the hype, too, mak-
ing The Swamp become a feared 
place to play again.
Average attendance at the seven 
home games this season was 90,065, 
the first time the season-long atten-dance average at Ben Hill Griffin Sta-dium surpassed 90,000 since 2010.
“The guys are buying in and 
I think that’s why we are where we are,” Hargreaves said. “This is 
not the end for coach Mac and the 
Gators.”
The Future
McElwain doesn’t plan to be a 
one-year wonder. 
That’s not how he works. And he doesn’t plan to go out on 
a low note either.
McElwain still has one last chance 
to finish his culture-changing first season with a win on Jan. 1 against Michigan in the Citrus Bowl.
The matchup pits McElwain 
against Wolverines’ first-year coach Jim Harbaugh, who led Michigan to a 9-3 season after going a combined 12-13 over the last two seasons.
But McElwain’s not worrying 
about that. He has his own team — his family — to focus on.16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
MCELWAIN,  from pg1He became the first UF coach to win 10 games in his first season
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain smiles in the huddle during Friday’s practice at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.
“The guys are buying in and I think that’s why we are where we are. 
This is not the end for coach Mac and the Gators.”
Vernon Hargreaves III
UF cornerback