VOLUME 109 ISSUE 95 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
‘The Walking Dead’ presentation tonight
Two crew members from the show will speak, pg 5.  
Police: Dead body found in swamp; crash has fatal end
Read the roundup on pg 3. McElwain pleased by signing day results 
After a slow start on the recruiting trail, Florida 
ﬁ  nished with 21 players in its 2015 recruiting class, pg. 14 64/38
Read reviews 
of the little-known 
Oscars’ short-ﬁ  lm 
categories: live-
action, documentary 
and animated.
Page 10. 
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Planting Seeds
Jake Schiff, a 21-year-old UF political science senior, and Jeremy Kleiman, a 19-year-old UF chemical engineering fresh-man, help plant trees outside UF Hillel in honor of Tu Bishvat on Wednesday afternoon. Tu Bishvat, one of four Jewish new years, is dedicated to trees and symbolizes the relationship between humans and their environment.
EMILY COCHRANE  and              SOPHIA KARNEGIS
Alligator Writers ecochrane@alligator.org
Police patrolling Gainesville 
may be wearing body cameras in the next few years.
University Police spokesman 
Sgt. Brad Barber said his depart-ment has been testing the cam-eras for more than a year, but it is still looking into the beneﬁ  ts and 
costs of the initiative.
“A body camera would pro-
vide a ﬁ  rst-person narrative of 
dangers and split-second deci-sions our ofﬁ  cers get into each 
day,” Barber said. “We’re still 
looking into what camera system 
would be efﬁ  cient.”With only 40 percent of 
Gainesville Police patrol cars 
outﬁ  tted with dashboard camer-
as, Gainesville Police spokesman 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said the cost 
is a major factor in the decision to buy body cameras. The cam-
eras would cost just more than 
$300,000 for the 302 ofﬁ  cers in the 
department, he said.Despite the cost, he said the 
department prides itself on its 
transparency.
“We understand that as pub-
lic servants, someone’s going to be ﬁ  lming us,” Tobias said. “This 
is not something we’re against. 
We’re all for it.”
For Fred Shenkman, a UF 
emeritus professor of criminol-ogy, the body cameras fail to ad-
dress a bigger issue — a lack of 
trust in police ofﬁ  cers.“If we give someone the abil-
ity to deprive one of their life and 
of their liberty, and then we don’t 
trust them, I have more of a prob-
lem with that lack of trust,” said Shenkman, who has consulted 
with GPD and other law enforce-
ment agencies. “I would work on 
the other end, ensuring that the 
people we have working in the police department have the trust 
of the government and the trust Local police departments considering body cams for ofﬁ  cers
UPD has been testing for about a year
SEE CAMERA, PAGE 4
RALPHY LOPEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two months ago today, Thomas Coady 
died in a motorcycle accident when he col-
lided with a pickup truck at the intersection of Northwest Eighth Avenue and 34th Street. 
To celebrate his life and the lives he saved 
throughout the years, his mother Maria Coady, a UF education associate professor, is bringing family and friends together to participate in the Five Points of Life 5k run on Feb. 14.  
When he was 16, Thomas Coady came 
home with a consent form that would allow him to donate blood. 
Ever since, he was an avid donor. In col-
lege, the 22-year-old UF biology senior also donated plasma, ﬁ  nding the process of blood ﬁ  ltering interesting. 
Unable to donate herself, Maria Coady said 
her son would donate blood on her behalf as a 5K team formed 
in memoriam of UF student
FOOTBALL
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan Moriarty
APOPKA, Fla. — Florida’s recruiting 
class was not expected to be anything spe-
cial.
But even in the wake of a coaching 
change, new head coach Jim McElwain and UF’s coaching staff had a late surge on Wednesday, picking up talented athletes on both sides of the ball.
And at the top of that list was ﬁ  ve-star 
offensive tackle Martez Ivey, the No. 4 re-cruit in the country out of Apopka (Fla.) High.
Ivey chose Florida over Auburn when 
he signed his National Letter of Intent at the comfort of his high school. 
For Ivey, the decision was an easy one.“When I received my offer two years 
ago, that’s where I wanted to play,” Ivey said. 
“That’s where I wanted to be. I grew up 
a Gator fan.”
Although Ivey’s gut was always telling him that Florida was the place he wanted to be, he still explored his options by visit-ing other schools, including Auburn. 
“I’m not naive to the fact that I’m get-
ting a free education so why not explore my opportunity to go play somewhere else and get an education?” Ivey said. Florida’s signing class highlighted by top offensive lineman
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 16SEE 5K, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 95 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
RAIN
72/47SUNNY
74/47SUNNY
70/40SUNNY
63/36PARTLY 
CLOUDY
64/38
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Verde Environmental Film 
and Arts Festival is seek-ing environmentally con-scious vendors for its eco-fair taking place Feb. 14 at 
the Paramount Plaza Hotel. 
Please contact Trish@cin-emaverde.org.  For more information about the fes-tival visit http://www.cin-emaverde.org/. 
Valentine’s for Veterans Spirit 
of America, Gainesville 
Civic Chorus Master 
ChoraleMusic is the poetry of the air. Its use has made a pow-erful impact during times of war; it bolstered those serving on the front lines as well as those waiting at home. Come hear songs that 
helped those in battle or eu-
logized those who passed in the name of freedom. Join us in saluting our veterans in song on Feb. 14 at 7:30 p.m. at the First United Methodist Church, 419 NE First St. For more information, visit www.GCChorus.org.
‘A T. rex Named Sue’ Loves 
You: A Valentine’s Night at the MuseumSpend Valentine’s evening at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games with your fa-vorite Tyrannosaurus rex 
named Sue. The program 
fee includes admission to “A T. rex Named Sue” and par-ticipation in the museum’s Trivia Night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. for this event; trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. Paid upon entry to the Florida Museum, the 
program fee is $10 per per-
son or $15 per couple and free for museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more information, call 
352-273-2061.
Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History Museum
Become a part of music his-tory. Learn how to become a better writer and hear musi-cal masterpieces with a les-son and presentation by the 
Dixie Desperados on Feb. 19 
from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. A simi-lar event will be March 12 at the same time, featuring a lesson and presentation by Stan Lynch, the former drummer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Feb. 26 with a multimedia pre-sentation by the chairman WHAT’S HAPPENING?
“The More Things Change, 
The More They Remain the Same: Race In America”Today at 5 p.m. in Pugh Hall, the Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program presents the 
Alice Mary Baldwin Professor of History at Duke University, William Chafe, who will de-liver a lecture entitled, “The More Things Change, The More They Remain the Same: Race in America.” Chafe will review the role of the state 
and of grassroot protests in 
creating, protecting or revers-ing social change. Chafe will discuss how the 1890s led to state repression and institu-tionalized Jim Crow laws, how the grassroots move-ment reversed that process, how the Civil Rights Act and 
Voting Rights Act changed 
some things but not others, and the new fight over trying to reverse the gains made 50 years ago. The event is free and open to the public. Call 352-392-7168 or visit oral.his-tory.ufl.edu.
Cupid’s Consent Week
STRIVE and the Office of Victim Services invite stu-dents to Cupid’s Consent Week, dedicated to celebrat-ing healthy, consensual re-lationships. Smooch a Star Celebrity Kissing/Photo Booth is Friday from 9 p.m. to 
midnight during GatorNights 
in the Reitz Union. Ask to kiss the stars and then upload the picture to show support for asking first.
Cupid’s Consent Event
Attend Cupid’s Consent Event on Feb. 12 from 11 a.m. 
to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas. There will be rela-tionship-building games and activities. Visit all the booths to collect prizes, including a free T-shirt. Visitors can also get a picture taken with Cupid. Like the Facebook.com/STRIVEUF page or go 
to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/
strive for more information!
Screening of ‘Girl Rising’
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard E. Robbins, “Girl Rising” journeys around the globe to witness the strength of the 
human spirit and the power 
of education to change the world. Viewers get to know nine unforgettable girls liv-ing in the developing world, ordinary girls who confront tremendous challenges and overcome nearly impossible odds to pursue their dreams. 
Prize-winning authors put 
the girls’ remarkable stories into words, and renowned actors give them voice. A discussion will follow the screening. Join us Feb. 12 at 3:00 p.m. at the International Center.
Cinema Verde seeks vendors
The sixth annual Cinema of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa 
Red and Hokum Blues: Early 
Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum, examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for well-known musical sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION
A story published Wednesday 
under the headline “Student Senate selects new elec-tions commissioner” named the election commissioner who resigned as Christel Harlacher, but the actual election commissioner was Jessica Kramer. The Alligator was given incorrect informa-tion by UF Student Senate President Joseph Michaels.
CLARIFICATION
A headline published Wednesday said a Santa Fe professor retired, but she was actually an administrative as-sistant. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
LOCAL
KATHRYN VARN and    
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writers kvarn@alligator.org 
ecochrane@alligator.org
Investigators don’t suspect foul play after 
Gainesville Police found a body Wednes-
day afternoon in a Southwest Gainesville swamp.
At about 2:30 p.m., a resident called po-
lice to report that while walking his dog, he found a dead body in a swampy area, located on the power line access trail east of Southwest 42nd Street and north of 20th Avenue, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Investigators believe the man got stuck in 
the swamp and died, Tobias said.
As of press time, police didn’t know the man’s identity, but Tobias said they believe him to be a man reported missing last month.
      
A Hawthorne woman was killed early 
Wednesday after her car ﬂ  ipped.
At about 2:10 a.m. Sadie Roxanne Mas-
ters, 40, was driving north on County Road 234 near Northeast Seventh Avenue when her 2012 Chevrolet Impala ﬂ  ipped on the 
east shoulder of the road, according to a 
Florida Highway Patrol report. The car land-ed on its roof.
Masters was wearing a seatbelt at the time 
of the accident. It is unclear what caused the accident, but the crash involved alcohol, ac-cording to the report. 
The medical examiner will conduct a 
toxicology report, FHP spokeswoman Sgt. 
Tracy Hisler-Pace wrote in an email.Police: Dead body found in 
swamp; crash has fatal endAMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
A shark is due to enter the Swamp.
The Accent Speaker’s Bureau and 
Black Student Union will host entrepre-neur and “Shark Tank” co-star Daymond John at 8 p.m. Monday in the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts.
John is also the author of two entrepre-
neurial books and the founder of fashion 
business For Us By Us, known as FUBU — a company with average annual sales of about $350 million. 
Corey Flayman, Accent chairman, 
said the decision to host John originated during a meeting with the directors of Black Student Union, who were planning events to celebrate Black History Month.
“Daymond John is a really interesting public ﬁ  gure,” he said. “He’s got so many different elements to him that would draw interest from students.”
Students are already getting excited 
for the event.
Erick Rodriguez, the UF Entrepreneur-
ship Club president, wrote in an email that John’s visit serves to expose students to careers they may not have deemed pos-
sible.
The Entrepreneurship Club’s execu-
tive board is even getting ﬁ  rst-row seat-
ing during the event, he said.
“I look up to Daymond,” said Rodri-
guez, a 20-year-old business management junior. “He grew up in Queens, worked hard in his early life.”
Students can pick up tickets for the 
free event at the Phillips Center Box Of-ﬁ  ce beginning at noon Monday.FUBU founder to speak at UFof the people they’re policing.”
He said he would rather 
have people examine the 
training, the pay and the back-ground of police officers than use cameras to watch their ev-ery move.
“I question how other 
people in other professional occupations would feel if they had to wear a body camera the entire time they were work-ing,” he said, “and how that would affect how they view their work and how they view themselves.”
While the call for body 
cameras has come in the af-termath of high-profile, fatal police incidents in Ferguson, Missouri, and New York City, Shenkman said people often forget the wide range of de-cisions police officers must make.
“The police are involved 
in some of the most difficult situations in society, and when people are in trouble, who do they call? It ain’t Ghost-busters,” Shenkman said. “Po-lice deal with everything from double parking to multiple homicide — it’s the same cop doing both things.”4, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
Sydney Dixon / Alligator 
Water, Water Everywhere
Students endure the rainy weather and puddles by the Music Building on Wednesday afternoon.
 IT’S HEART MONTH. ARIELLA PHILLIPS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Krista Cornell first realized 
the importance of heart health 
when her son was diagnosed with a heart defect at birth.
Now the regional direc-
tor for the Alachua County American Heart Association, Cornell said her family was healthy to begin with, but her 
son’s diagnosis changed her 
lifestyle and made her want to help others.
This month, the associa-
tion celebrates Heart Month, aimed at raising awareness for cardiovascular disease, which is the No. 1 killer of 
men and women in the Unit-
ed States.
Though the month may 
be filled with heart-shaped Cheerios promising to lower cholesterol and red-dress pins for the association’s Go Red for Women campaign, UF Health cardiologist Dr. 
C. Richard Conti said there should be constant awareness 
of the issue.
“The message should get 
across 12 out of 12 months,” Conti said.
While the effects of heart 
disease are often seen later in life, Conti said there are a number of changes people of any age can make to their dai-ly routines to decrease their risk.
Another important fo-
cus group of Heart Month is women, who are particularly 
susceptible to heart disease. 
Conti said one of the larg-
est issues affecting college-
age women is smoking while taking contraceptives, which sharply increases the risk of blood clots in coronary arter-ies.
Another issue to be aware 
of is premature heart disease, which Conti said is relatively uncommon but often passed down from family members. Knowing family history is key to getting ahead, Conti said.
“You can’t alter your histo-
ry,” Conti said, “But you can alter your circumstances.”Heart health not just 
1-month concern for county association
Ways to stay heart-healthy
-Control weight via regular exercise and a healthy diet
-Monitor blood pressure
-Know family history
-Don’t smoke
-Monitor cholesterol
Information courtesy of Dr. C. Richard Conti
CAMERA , from page 1Cost is a major factorThomas Coady’s mother formed it
Mother’s Day gift. 
“I didn’t want him to spend money on me since he 
was a student, so he would go and donate in my name 
as a gift to me,” Maria Coady said.
Five Points of Life is a foundation based on the 
five ways to share life: donation of blood, apheresis, marrow, cord blood and organ and tissue. The 5k was developed out of the marathon put on annually by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers.
The 5k has no formal team sign-up process, but 
Five Points of Life program coordinator Elli Miles said many loved ones come together to run for a cause.
“While we do not have a team option for the 5k, 
many groups have participated by meeting on race day and walking or running together,” Miles said.
With the plan to put a team together, Maria Coady 
worked to raise money for Five Points of Life. With 
the help of extended family, she met her goal of $500 
on Tuesday. 
So far, the team consists of Maria Coady; her hus-
band, Thomas; her 19-year-old daughter, Rachel, a 
student at Santa Fe; and stepchildren Austin, 13, and 
Emily, 10. Other friends and family from the commu-
nity and UF are expected to participate as well, Maria 
Coady said.
Maria Coady said her son touched many people’s 
lives. 
“Thomas was the last Thomas Joseph Coady in the 
family,” she said. “He was very deeply loved by ev-eryone.”5K , from page 1
Courtesy to the Alligator
Thomas Coady, who passed away two months ago today, poses for a photo with his mother, Maria Co-ady. Maria Coady formed a team in her son’s honor to run in a 5k next weekend.
“The police are 
involved in some of the 
most difficult situations 
in society, and when 
people are in trouble, 
who do they call? It ain’t 
Ghostbusters.”
Fred Shenkman
UF emeritus professor THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF alumnus Gene Page poses for a photo with one of the zombies 
from “The Walking Dead.”
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe Student Senate approved fund-
ing, swore in a new senator and debated a 
club’s status at Wednesday’s meeting.
Senators voted to allow Health Services 
Administration Student Association nearly 
$4,000 to attend a conference later this year.
Senators also voted Christopher Hall as 
the new Internal Affairs academic senator.
Young Americans for Liberty Senator 
and City Commission candidate Lucas Jew-
ell started a roll call to ensure that enough senators were in attendance to continue the meeting. But he caused a stir when he left immediately after his club was mentioned 
for roll call, saying he couldn’t stay for the 
remainder.
“Live free or die,” Jewell said before exit-
ing the room.
For the next half-hour, senators debated 
on how to respond to Jewell’s actions. Some senators suggested punishing the club, while others said only Jewell should be pun-ished since the rest of the club had no control 
over his actions.
Senators ultimately decided to have the 
club issue an apology at the Senate meeting 
next Wednesday. Until then, Young Ameri-cans for Liberty remains on shaky ground, which means it could go unfunded for the rest of the year unless Treasurer Aadil Mu-hammad decides otherwise.Senate jarred 
by member’s sudden exit IT WILL FEATURE A UF ALUMNUS WHO IS 
NOW A STILL-PHOTOGRAPHER FOR THE SHOW.
COURTNEY CULBREATH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two of the men behind one of television’s most popu-
lar series are taking a break from zombies and visiting 
some Gators.   
Still-photographer Gene Page and boom mic operator 
Robert Maxﬁ  eld will recount stories from life behind the scenes of AMC’S “The Walking Dead” tonight at 6:30 in 
Weimer Hall’s Gannett Auditorium.
Page, a UF journalism alumnus, said he suggested the 
presentation to UF photojournalism professor John Free-
man.  
“It’s off-beat because instead of a web speaker or a new 
company innovator, this is pop culture,” Freeman said. 
“It might give some people inspiration for following their 
interests and passion in a nontraditional way.”
They will present a slideshow with more than 300 im-
ages to help share their experiences on the hit television 
show about the rise of the undead.
They said they want to discuss what their jobs entail, 
memorable scenes, stories about the actors, set mishaps 
and, perhaps, zombies.
“When you watch a television show, you see all these 
moments ﬂ  ash in front of you on the screen as moving images, but my aim is to actually freeze and capture mo-ments,” Page said. “I feel it’s a big responsibility — like I’m capturing television history.”
Jessica Shifﬂ  ett, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, 
said she hasn’t seen every season of “The Walking Dead,” but she made sure to RSVP for the event on Facebook.
“I think UF gives really great opportunities that you 
won’t have later in the outside world,” Shifﬂ  ett said.‘The Walking Dead’ presentation tonight 
“It might give some people inspiration for 
following their interests and passion in a non-
traditional way.”
John Freeman
UF professorReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.‘Mockingbird’ 
sequel skeptics 
right to be wary 
If you or anybody you may have encountered in the last cou-
ple days happens to enjoy reading in any capacity, you’ve probably heard the news about the new book by Harper Lee.
Harper Lee being, of course, the reclusive author of “To Kill 
A Mockingbird.”
“To Kill A Mockingbird,” ﬁ  rst published in 1960, is one of the 
most overwhelmingly popular, beloved and well-written nov-els in the entire American literary canon. Through the eyes of its child protagonist, Scout, the novel examines — among other things — extreme racial prejudice in the society of the Jim Crow South and its courts in 1936. Scout’s father, Atticus Finch, who defended a black man from false charges, has become a kind of folk hero for those who struggle against corrupt institutions in pursuit of justice.
“To Kill A Mockingbird” — we’re going to take advantage 
of a cliche here — was an instant classic. If you grew up in the United States, chances are high you read it in school. This book is a big deal.
Remarkably, it’s the only novel of Lee’s that’s ever been pub-
lished, but that’s set to change this year. “To Set A Watchman” is touted as a sequel to “To Kill A Mockingbird,” set in the ‘50s. Though it has many of the same characters and circumstances of the ﬁ  rst book, it was actually written before “To Kill A Mocking-
bird,” and the events of each story are unconnected.
This gives the novel’s legions of fans and admirers — our-
selves included — cause for celebration. Millions of readers will have a chance to return to Maycomb, Alabama, this summer.
Even so, many remain skeptical.
As do we. Maybe we’re reading too much into the situation, 
but something about it doesn’t feel quite right.
Lee has always been adamantly shy of attention, describing 
herself as more like Boo Radley than Scout Finch. On the other hand, she described her late older sister, conﬁ  dante and legal adviser Alice, as “Atticus in a skirt.” Alice protected Harper Lee from those who would stand to take advantage of her younger 
sister’s legacy. This included such brazen attempts as an in-
cident in 2007, when a relative of her long-time literary agent tricked Lee into signing the rights of “To Kill A Mockingbird” over to him.  That, and it seems Lee never wanted to publish another novel.  
“I wouldn’t go through the pressure and publicity I went 
through with ‘To Kill A Mockingbird’ for any amount of mon-ey,” she has said.
In this context, everything about the “new” novel seems ex-
tremely sketchy. Lee kept a manuscript for 55 years, one which she supposedly had no intention of nor desire to publish. Are we actually supposed to believe that Lee gave up on more than half a century of obstinance and happened to do so just three months after her friend and lawyer passed away?
There’s ample evidence to speculate people saw several mil-
lion dollar signs and decided to take advantage of an old wom-an. Nothing could be more shameful.
 45TOTAL VOTES58% YES
42% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Are you looking 
forward to Harper Lee’s new book? Today’s question: Do you think police ofﬁ  cers should 
wear body cameras?
In education debate, Catholic schools win
Debates revolving around education are always con-tentious. This issue, unlike other high-proﬁ  le issues of our time, induces strong emotional responses. For 
some reason, parents’ choices are solely limited to either pro-school choice, pro-teacher, pro-public schools or pro-charter schools. What this narrow and emotional debate leaves out is the role that religious schools, Catholic schools in particular, play in our society.
Full disclosure: I was educated in Catholic schools in New 
York and Florida for 12 years. While I cannot attest to the de-
ﬁ  ciencies or beneﬁ  ts of public schools, I can personally attest to the overwhelming beneﬁ  ts of a Catholic education.
For Catholic-school graduates, the conversation about 
schooling focuses on the issues angsty teenagers with too much time on their hands complain about: the plaid school uniforms, the family planning conversations, that one kid who was a little too religious and over-crowded school 
masses. What is lost in this complaining is the social capital 
Catholic schools bring to a community.   
Margaret Brinig, co-author of “Lost Classroom, Lost 
Community: Catholic Schools’ Importance in Urban Ameri-ca,” describes the effects that disappearing Catholic schools — not just in urban areas but in suburban areas as well — have on the community in an interview with National Re-view magazine.
Research shows that “serious crime declined 25 percent 
citywide but only 17 percent in police beats that lost Catholic schools.” When these schools leave their communities, the institutions aren’t the only things that disappear. A “broken window” chain of events occur after the school’s closing. The members of the community lose an establishment that brought them together. Children no longer have a place of education that holds them to high educational and personal standards. Families in many cases must leave their commu-nities to ﬁ  nd better schools. Crime increases and the social 
cohesion of the community falls apart.  
Having a morally grounding and personally stabilizing 
institution such as a Catholic school is instrumental to the 
stability of a community. While the effects of disappear-ing schools are disastrous, the effects of successful Catho-lic schools can only be described as miraculous. Brinig notes that “the research on Catholic schools ﬁ  nds that they succeed academi-cally because the members of the 
school community — pastors, 
principals, teachers, parents, stu-dents — trust each other and hold each other to high expectations.”
While Catholic schools do add 
value, they can also be improved. Brinig challenges religious school leaders to do three things: “First, focus on leader-ship... Second, recruit Latinos. In the United States, nearly 70 percent of practicing Catholics under the age of 35 are 
Latino, but only 3 percent of Latino families send their kids 
to Catholic schools. Third, to echo Saint John Paul II: ‘Be not afraid.’ The game is not up. The future of Catholic schools won’t look like the past, but it can be a hopeful future.”   
In our education-related debates, we must move beyond 
taking pro-private or pro-public school sides. Even the pro-ponents of charter schools discount the value and impor-tance religious schools have on the community.
Some may complain about the role of religion in edu-
cation. This in and of itself is a dubious critique. Catholic schools are not limited to only the Catholic ﬂ  ock. Many non-Catholic Christians and non-Christians attend Catholic schools. It’s incorrect to assume that Catholic schools only serve religious purposes. The religion-in-the-classroom squabbles distract us from the importance of religious schools.
What communities need, poorer communities especially, 
is an institution founded on a desire to help others. Catholic 
schools assist in the education of thousands of schools each 
year. The schools link and unite neighborhoods and focus everyone’s attention on hope, love and charity. And these schools truly make a difference in a young student’s life. 
Catholic schools matter. Which is good, because right 
now, plaid is in.
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    
Keep up with the Avenue 
on Twitter @TheAlligator. The Avenue reviews Oscar-nominated short ﬁ  lms: 
Check out our picks for best animated, documentary and live-action, pg. 10What’s inside: 
The latest binge-drinking game, a review of George Ezra’s debut album and a preview of UF’s symphony showcase.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
CAREL LAJARA
Avenue Writer
As The Jam’s doors opened at 
9 p.m. Friday, people poured in to grab a beer as they waited patient-ly to see Archnemesis and Bells and Robes take the the stage.
Bells and Robes, who are signed 
to UF’s student label, Swamp Re-cords, describe their sound as am-bient, psychedelic, electronic dance music. The group consists of Luke Sipka, who plays live keyboard, and Dean Spaniol, who deals with percussion and sampling.
“I think in a university setting, 
people are a lot more open-minded to something a little bit different,” Sipka said. “A lot of people in col-lege are discovering what they like and what they don’t like and not necessarily closed off to anything yet so you can be a little more out there.”
The pair hyped up the crowd in 
preparation for the Archnemesis performance that followed.
“Bells and Robes was awe-
some,” said Heidi Hanson, a 20-year-old UF political science student. “The Jam is the best venue in town.”
At about midnight, Archnem-
esis took to the stage, and that’s when the party really started.
During his performance, he 
provided for all kinds of music tastes, playing everything from hip-hop to rock to electronic-based tracks and offered up remixes of popular songs.
Rooted in electro hip-hop soul, 
Archnemesis said he gets his sound from studying jazz, being classically trained in the upright bass and growing up listening to all types of music including punk, heavy metal, hip-hop and ‘70s funk.
He said people should keep an 
open mind about the type of music people listen to.
“If I had to say anything, it 
would be just keep exploring mu-sic,” he said. “Don’t limit what you’re listening to to what people say is popular.”
Archnemesis performed for 
about an hour and a half. During the performance, he was moving around to the rhythm of the bass and having as good of a time as ev-eryone else in the crowd.
The night concluded with a 
bang when Miami-local Ruby and Friends took to the stage, where they collaborated with Grant McLeod from Flat Land and the whole place erupted into a full-blown dance party.
“Doing something positive with 
music is important to me because it’s such a powerful thing,” Arch-nemesis said. “I do what I love for a living, and I wouldn’t trade it for anything else in the world. I’m so blessed to be able to do what I do.”
Archnemesis, Bells and Robes hype up crowd at The Jammusic
Briana Erickson / Alligator
Archnemesis performs at The Jam on Friday night. Bells and Robes and Ruby and Friends also took the stage for special performances.
LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
Self-appointed social 
media spies who rely 
on Snapchat to ﬁ  nd out whom their object of de-sire is sending snaps to 
have snapped at the removal of 
the app’s “best friends” feature.
Some of Snapchat’s audience 
has openly expressed opposition on Twitter — so much so that Snapchat plans to bring the fea-ture back. 
Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel 
tweeted on Jan. 27, “We’ll bring 
back BFs soon. A few higher-pro-
ﬁ  le friends wanted to keep their usernames private — we’ll come up with a better way to do that.”
Daniella Vazquez, a 19-year-
old UF sociology freshman, is among those who have voiced discontent with the up-date.
“Guys may not like 
this, but sometimes you have to check up on your guy to make sure he’s not snapping other girls,” 
Vazquez said.
Other students, like Franches-
co Casadidio, a 22-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance senior, embraced the tem-porary change and said the fea-ture “added unnecessary drama to one’s life.”
While its users await the re-
turn of “best friends,” Snapchat has introduced a new way to di-versify and appeal to a larger au-dience.
With “discover,” users can 
receive the latest news on CNN, follow sports on ESPN and keep up with their favorite celebrities on People. The new feature in-vites those who aren’t primarily interested in the communicating aspect of the app, but instead are more interested in receiving news through an innovative platform.
“They deﬁ  nitely are connected 
to some very big players now 
when it comes to the media,” said 
36-year-old Andrew Selepak, the director of UF’s Master of Arts in Mass Communication with a spe-cialization in social media.
The new feature could also 
be the reason why Snapchat has changed its privacy settings.
“I think it’s because they 
(Snapchat) knew they were going to be making this big push to get big media companies or corpora-tions involved that they decided to do it,” Selepak said. “They want to make people feel they can use it freely.”
Snapchat stalkers lose it over 
removal of ‘best friends’ feature Tonight
Enjoy a night of folk music while art-
ist and guitar player Joe Crookston 
will perform at UFʼs Squitieri Studio Theatre tonight at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $10 for students and $35 for reserved seating. Tickets are avail-able on the UF Performing Arts website.
Friday
The opening reception for Michael 
Oliveriʼs new exhibit, “Under The 
Sun,” will be from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Gallery Protocol. The exhibit focuses on the understanding of the universe. The reception is free and will include food and drinks.Saturday
Dancers from the Joffrey Ballet Con-
cert Group will perform at Santa 
Fe College at 7:30 p.m. in the Fine Arts Hall on the northwest campus. Tickets range from $9 to $25 and can be purchased on Santa Feʼs website.
Sunday
The Paris-based Hermès Quartet, 
which started in 2013 and has 
performed around Europe, will per-form at the University Auditorium at 2 p.m. Tickets range from $10 to $35. Tickets are available on the UF Performing Arts website.
Upcoming Events THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
ALEC CARVER
Avenue Writer
You may have seen “A Young Doctor’s Notebook” during a late night 
scroll through the pages of Netﬂ  ix and wondered if that’s Harry Potter 
and Don Draper, or if you’re just crazy. Well, good news: You’re sane — as far as I can tell. This is a really good, though often overlooked, bleak, British black comedy starring Jon Hamm and Daniel Radcliffe as older and younger versions of the same character, a doctor under a police in-vestigation going through diary entries from his ﬁ  rst days in medicine. With dark humor and incredible acting — did we mention Jon Hamm sports an English accent? — ”A Young Doctor’s Notebook” is also fun to drink to. The ﬁ  rst season is up on Netﬂ  ix, only four episodes, but it’s guaranteed to get you perfectly overserved.
With Valentine’s Day coming up, the Avenue will present a Valentine’s edition of our usual drinking game. Check back next week to see what it is.TAKE A SIP  when
Jon Hamm reprimands his younger self
Daniel Radcliffe brings up his exam scores
Bodily ﬂ  uids of any kind are seen, heard or talked 
about
Daniel Radcliffe pretends to get a cigarette so he can 
look at textbooks
Every time somebody says “drops”Leopold Leopoldovich is mentioned by name
FINISH YOUR DRINK when
Daniel Radcliffe gets bodily ﬂ  uids on himself
A character takes morphine
Daniel Radcliffe has disappointing sexeditionSAVANA MORIE
Avenue Writer
Swamp Records is having its 
second annual showcase Friday 
night at 7:30 p.m.
The free event will be at The 
Jam at 817 W. University Ave. 
and will feature 11 local acts. 
“Gainesville has a very rich 
music history, and we’re just 
trying to bring some of that back and bring more awareness to it,” said Breana Auberry, president and co-founder of Swamp Records. 
Swamp Records artists Bells 
and Robes,  Sidereal, the Sa-vants of Soul and Flat Land will perform at the showcase.
Grant McLeod, the drum-
mer for Flat Land, said that be-cause it’s a free show, he’s look-ing forward to playing for new people.
“The best thing about this 
show is the connection that Swamp Records has made be-tween students and the local music scene,” he said. 
Flaco’s, Grooveshark and 
other local start-up companies 
will offer goodies, according to 
a press release.
Attendance last year was 
about 500 people, Auberry said.This year’s turnout is expected to have hundreds more.
Mary Patterson, a UF adver-
tising junior, said she was ex-cited to go again this year. 
“My favorite part of (last 
year’s showcase) was that it brought students from all dif-ferent backgrounds together under a common love for great music,” the 20-year-old said. Swamp Records to 
hold 2nd annual showcase Friday 
ASHLEY SCHIFFMAN
Avenue Writer
Some of UF’s talented musi-
cians will perform at this year’s 
Symphony Orchestra concert.
The concert will feature the 
winners of the 47th Annual Con-
certo Competition. The showcase 
is tonight at 7:30 p.m. in UF’s Uni-versity Auditorium and will be free and open to the public.
The program will include four 
pieces from renowned musicians: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven, Henri Tomasi and Ney Rosauro.
“Just having the honor to play 
this piece with the orchestra is amazing,” said Mary McLean, a 21-year-old UF music senior and one of the winners of the Annual Concerto Competition.
McLean will be highlighted in 
the Rosauro piece.
“Ney Rosauro was a huge in-
ﬂ  uence on me continuing my ca-reer in music,” McLean said. “I’m just absolutely thrilled to show this piece the way it’s intended with the orchestra.”
David Santiago, a 24-year-old 
UF second-year music graduate student, will be the conductor for the Symphony Orchestra as directed by Maestro Raymond Chobaz.
“They’re great pieces that they 
play,” Santiago said. “It’s great music.”UF music students to 
perform at Symphony Orchestra tonight LAUREN JOHNSON
Avenue Writer
British singer-songwriter George Ezra ﬁ  n-
ished off last year with the debut of his ﬁ  rst 
studio album “Wanted on Voyage,” released Jan. 27 in the U.S. Ezra’s sound and lyrics pre-sented on the album permeate through the 
soul of the listener, where goosebumps are the 
lingering sensation left in each of the 12 tracks.
His album generates feelings of depen-
dency, deception, sacriﬁ  ce, infatuation and heartbreak in order to cohesively represent 
young love. Every song presented in “Wanted 
on Voyage” allows the listener to actively fol-
low along to the melodious tune of emotional reverence.
The opening track, “Blame It on Me,” elec-
triﬁ  es the listener with Ezra’s compelling mes-sage of alleviating a lover’s emotional distress and uncertainty. Ezra then upheaves a role reversal in “Budapest,” where he serves as the dependent partner in a relationship with a 
willingness to leave his life behind for his lov-
er. “Cassy O’” is a lighthearted tune of crazy infatuation.
“Barcelona” elects reminiscent memories 
of a past time spent with a partner. For the ﬁ  fth track, “Listen to the Man,” Ezra shoots out a ballad that depicts the empathic nature one falls to when their lover is saddened.
“Leaving It Up to You” derails from previ-
ous tracks involving devotion to a feeling of tormented agony when the deepening of a relationship is not in your control. “Did You Hear the Rain?” follows the same pattern 
of agitation, but through the telling of a bad 
breakup. “Drawing Board” further elaborates on heartbreak through the act of vengeance and adds to the album as a well-written piece of comic relief. 
Ezra’s next track, “Stand By Your Gun,” 
carries the listener down a path of reassur-ance. “Breakaway” symbolizes a relationship gone wrong with additive mentions to leave 
the relationship because no one is deserving of 
deception. 
“Over the Creek” embodies the ominous 
feeling that love could be just around the cor-ner. Ezra’s ﬁ  nal track, “Spectacular Rival,” coaxes the listener into a trance of brashness through jealousy.
Whether belting out lyrics about love or 
about anguish, George Ezra is an artist to 
watch.George Ezra’s debut album
takes listeners on a voyage
DOCTOR’S NOTEBOOKA YOUNG10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
When it comes to the Academy 
Awards, there are so many nomi-
nations for so many categories, it’s easy to overlook some of the work nominat-ed — namely, the short-ﬁ  lm categories. 
This week, the Avenue took some time 
to watch the nominated short ﬁ  lms, which range from four to 80 minutes, from the three categories: animated, live-action and documentary. We  re-viewed the ﬁ  lms so our readers can decide which ones are well worth pay-ing attention to. We also made predic-tions as to which ﬁ  lm will take the Oscar 
home. From cute animations to weird 
darkness to tear-jerking acting, there’s probably a ﬁ  lm for you to watch. If any of these catch your interest, you can head over to the Hippodrome State The-atre through Feb. 12 to watch some of these short ﬁ  lms. Tickets, which range from $5 to $7.50, and showtimes for each category can be found on the Hip-
podrome’s website. Tune in to ABC on 
Feb. 22 at 8:30 p.m. to watch the 87th Academy Awards ceremony and see who else is taking an Oscar that night.
KRISTAN WIGGINS
Avenue Writer
There are several “ugly ducklings” of the 
Oscars, and short ﬁ  lms have got to be some of the ugliest. They’re mostly foreign made and are usually limited release, but they can take the time frame of a typical bad sitcom and turn 
around fully developed characters and moving 
stories. This year, the category for live-action short ﬁ  lms is a mixed bag of quirky darkness and glimmers of hope. Here’s the rundown in order of least to most likely to win the statue:
“Aya”By Oded Binnun and Mihal BrezisAya is a woman who just can’t seem to con-
nect to people. That’s easy enough to under-
stand. But when she pretends she is a man’s 
driver at the airport and subsequently drives him to Jerusalem, leaving her husband (who she was waiting on to begin with), understandable goes out the window. The increasingly awkward conversations between the two during the car ride don’t reveal much about their characters besides the fact you don’t believe they are real people. This is the longest of the ﬁ  ve nominees 
and there’s no hiding that fact. The whole thing 
is unsettling, making it seem like you are the one on the endless roadtrip.
“Parvaneh”By Talkhon Hamzavi and Stefan Eichenberg-
er
A young Afghani asylum seeker is living in 
the Swiss Alps, working odd jobs to send money back home to her mother. When she ﬁ  nds that 
she can’t wire money because of her age and 
lack of identiﬁ  cation, she ﬁ  nds help from a lo-cal girl who is facing her own set of problems. So this ﬁ  lm could’ve been assumed to be a hard look at the lives migrants face in today’s age of endless gray legal areas, but instead it takes those struggles and compares them with the struggles of a Swiss party girl. It ends up seem-ingly trivializing her struggles by just making her into an “every girl” stereotype.
“Butter Lamp” (La Lampe au Beurre de Yak)
By Hu Wei and Julien Féret
A photographer sets up backdrops and his 
tripod in rural areas of China to take portraits of Tibetan villagers. This odd slice-of-life ﬁ  lm ends in what could be a portrayed as an industrializa-tion criticism.
“Boogaloo and Graham”By Michael Lennox and Ronan BlaneyThis is by far the brightest of the group. A fa-
ther brings home two chicks from the farm he works at, and his sons quickly take them under their wings as boys’ best friends. You see the mother frantically dealing with feathers and unsanitary conditions created by the feathered pets, named Boogaloo and Graham, all in the setting of conﬂ  ict in Ireland. This quirky tale with a happy ending will remind you of your foul-less childhood.
“The Phone Call”By Mat Kirkby and James Lucas
A woman walks into her ofﬁ  ce and the only 
person there is a co-worker, who, with not-so-
subtle camera work, they make obvious she fan-cies. But one phone call signals that this won’t be a Jim and Pam-esque ﬁ  lm. A man calls in to the crisis hotline, and she tries to maintain her composure while simultaneously trying to talk him into letting her save him. Every second is nerve-wracking, making the 21 minutes feel like 
a second and an hour at the same time. The 
ending is both heartbreaking and heartwarm-ing, as husband and wife are reunited in some way, and hey, this version of Jim and Pam get together too with a little nudge from the caller.
KELSEY BONA
Avenue Writer
When it comes time to announce the win-
ner for Best Documentary Short Subject at the 87th Academy Awards, many will probably be busy scrolling through endless live tweets as they await the more prestigious categories. 
Nevertheless, this year’s shorts deserve no-
tice. Here’s the rundown on the nominated documentary short ﬁ  lms.
“The Reaper” (La Parka)By Gabriel Serra ArguelloIf cinematography alone was enough for 
the win, “The Reaper” would be a shoo-in. Plagued with artistic shots of a slaughter-house, the ﬁ  lm presents the experiences of a 
long-time butcher who goes by the nickname 
Reaper. While the camerawork is captivating, the narrative falls ﬂ  at as it fails to paint the worker as a complex character who is seem-ingly haunted by killing animals but who also enjoys being good at his work — which one is it? The contradiction will probably keep the award just out of reach for director Arguello.
“Our Curse”
By Tomasz Sliwinski and Maciej Slesicki
Have you ever wanted to watch a baby 
struggle to breathe? Me neither, but that’s what “Our Curse” has to offer. The short can be neatly summed up in one word: painful. It documents parents trying to come to terms with a disorder called Ondine’s curse, which afﬂ  icts their newborn son and prevents him from breathing properly during sleep. Certain 
scenes are hard to watch, like one where the 
baby falls asleep while being breastfed and needs a tube inserted into his throat. Watch-ing the documentary is like intruding on someone else’s depressing homemade vid-eos, and the disheartening events will most likely “curse” the ﬁ  lm rather than beneﬁ  t it.
“White Earth”By J. Christian Jensen
“White Earth” involves winter. Fitting, 
right? But speciﬁ  cally winter in North Dakota, 
where people increasingly seek ﬁ  nancial sta-bility with oil-rig jobs. What makes the docu-mentary intriguing is its choice of perspective: three children. One boy lives completely alone while his father works on the rig, a girl takes a distaste to the sudden inﬂ  ux of people in her hometown, and another girl comes from a working immigrant family that moved north to support themselves. The pacing and material of the ﬁ  lm holds attention, but its abrupt end-
ing leaves you thinking, “That’s it?”
“Crisis Hotline: Veterans Press 1”
By Ellen Goosenberg Kent and Dana PerryIt’s easy to see why this short may be the 
Academy favorite. “Crisis Hotline: Veterans Press 1” gives an inside look at the Veterans’ Crisis Line call center, the only call center speciﬁ  cally for at-risk veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. The HBO doc-
umentary covers several tension-ﬁ  lled phone 
calls from retired soldiers who have guns and razor blades in hand and nightmarish memo-ries in mind. The ﬁ  lmmakers successfully il-lustrate the effects of war on our soldiers, but they choose not to delve deeper into the not-so-lucky situations in which the phone opera-tors fail to save their victims, and this could be enough to cost them the win.
“Joanna”By Aneta KopaczThe top tearjerker of the group, “Joanna,” 
is simple in its editing and craft. It imparts a bittersweet depiction of a dying mother and her 5-year-old son. What sets apart this doc-umentary is that it comes off as real. Noth-ing seems contrived: not the son’s childlike curiosity, not the mother’s good humor in 
spite of her cancer and not the underlying 
pain that occasionally slips out from both of them. Watching is like getting a brief look into the lives of two hapless individuals, snifﬂ  ing as you witness their last memories together and wiping your eyes as the mother reads aloud the letter she plans to leave for her son. Kopacz miraculously forms a melancholy experience into a beautiful short documen-
tary that proves most worthy of the Academy 
Award.
ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
From treat-hungry puppies to turning back 
time on the turntables, this year’s Oscar-nom-inated animated short ﬁ  lms are sure to tug on the heartstrings of voters and viewers alike.
“The Dam Keeper”
By Robert Kondo and Dice Tsutsumi
This short tells the story of a pig who 
serves as a village dam-keeper, keeping the town out of “darkness,” as his father told him. Every morning, the pig wakes up early to do his duty before heading to school, where he is bul-lied and belittled by his classmates. One day, a friendly fox approaches him, sketchbook in hand, and the two become friends, against all 
odds.
This might sound like a typical animated 
story geared toward children, but the simplic-
ity and utter care with which Kondo and Tsu-tsumi treat this tale is beautiful. The anima-tion is in soft, wisp-like strokes: There is no dialogue (save for a book-ending narration by Lars Mikkelsen), but there is a tinkling, emo-tive soundtrack that provides the unspoken 
words. It is a story showing the importance of 
kindness, which resonates at any age.
“Me and My Moulton”By Torill KoveThis everyday tale of a young girl’s life with 
her 1960s abstract family in Norway is more of a chapter in a story than a full narrative. The middle of three sisters narrates her life while colorful illustrations visualize her thoughts. 
Each subject change comes as quickly and 
randomly as if in a young girl’s mind, and the seemingly simple request of a bicycle for her and her sisters makes the girl constantly ques-tion why her family isn’t “normal.”
This short ﬁ  lm ﬂ  ickers from thought to 
thought, but the overlying message, being grateful for what you have, comes full circle in the end.
“The Bigger Picture”By Daisy Jacobs and Chris HeesThe U.K.-based short revolves around two brothers and their varying care for their aging mother. One brother tends to the house while the other brother is only present sporadically. The former’s frustration is shown through an interesting mix of abstract art (in the way the characters are illustrated) and real-life objects (like plastic wrap used as water pooling in a shower, or being poured from a tea kettle).
This particular short is less message-driv-
en than the others, but the resonating conclu-sion leaves a satisfactory end for the brief tale.
“Feast”By Patrick Osborne and Kristina ReedMost people may recognize this short from 
its spot preceding “Big Hero 6,” but even with-out the Disney moniker, this adorable story of a puppy and the man who takes him in, feed-ing him various foods and treats as he grows 
older, is just as heartwarming.
The tale is told through each treat the dog 
gets, with the man growing older and even-
tually meeting a woman. The food relates to feelings, and eventually, it’s up to the dog to make his owner happy again. We all know Dis-ney has a knack for plucking all of the right heartstrings with its storytelling, and this ﬁ  lm is no exception — this is deﬁ  nitely my pick for 
the winner.
“A Single Life”
By Marieke Blaauw, Joris Oprins and Job 
Roggeveen
The shortest (and perhaps most creative) 
of the nominees, this ﬁ  lm shows a young wom-an who discovers she can go through various times in her life through a mysterious vinyl record she received on her doorstep. With no 
dialogue, the humor and storytelling comes 
directly from the woman’s expressions — and eventual attempts to stop time before it’s too late.
While I don’t believe this will take home the 
Oscar, it earns bonus points for deﬁ  nitely be-ing the most interesting. 
Have you seen any of the Oscar-nominated 
shorts? If so, what are your favorites? Tweet 
your picks @AlyssaVHolcomb and tune into 
the Oscars to see who wins!
Short films: the Oscar nominations you didn’t know about
Documentary
 Animated
Live-actionBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY, 5, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
TIRED OF ROOMMATES?
Move-in ready 1bed/1bath in Windsor Park.  $700/mo.  Contact Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715 EXIT Realty Producers    2-10-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY, 5, 2015
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 2-6-14-73-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY, 5, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
Looking for help on the weekends to work with 
children at an indoor play center for children and families. We want to add to our ener-getic, friendly, trustworthy and hard -working team. Must be able to commit to 2 weekends a month. Please call 352-278-7128    2-6-15-3-14
Operation Catnip has an opening for a full-time Volunteer Coordinator!Job duties include: recruitment, training, and  supervision, of volunteer workforce. Must be highly organized, comfortable managing un-paid staff and able to work and communicate with diverse stakeholders. Volunteers come from all walks - the local community includes the college of veterinary medicine, university student population of 50k and a county pop-ulation of 250k. Anticipated salary of $26k. Please go to the following link to learn more and to apply for this position:http://sheltermedicine.vetmed.ufl.edu/about-us/employment/position-opening-volunteer-coordinator/     2-6-5-14Immediate opening for a PT Medical Front Office person. Multi-tasking and accuracy is a MUST! Please email your resume to trc0102@yahoo.com    2-6-15-5-14
Best Programming Job in Gainesville
Help build WWW 3.0 - the Semantic Web. 
Must be experienced ASP.NET MVCprogrammer. Change the scientific world. Apply to info@chemicalsemantics.com    2-13-15-7-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
alligatorSports podcast
With National Signing Day in the rearview mirror, Graham Hall, Richard 
Johnson, Morgan Moriarty and Luis Torres broke down UF’s recruiting class. Download from iTunes using the keyword “alligatorSports.”Gymnast Kennedy Baker suffered a concussion and will not compete against Arkansas, coach Rhonda Faehn said. Poll question
How would you grade Florida’s recruiting class? Vote 
online at alligatorSports.org.GRAHAM HALL 
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
SEFFNER, Fla. — Byron Cowart, the No. 1 college foot-
ball recruit in the country, is not coming to Gainesville.
The 6-foot-3, 252-pound defensive end from Armwood 
High School in Seffner will be attending Auburn Univer-
sity to play football for coach Gus Malzahn and former UF head coach Will Muschamp.
“It was real close,” Cowart said on deciding between 
Florida and Auburn. “At the end of the day, it was really, really close.”
Although Cowart would not definitively say Mus-champ was the overall deciding factor in his decision to leave his home state 
of Florida to join the Tigers, it was the 
hiring of Muschamp at Auburn that con-
vinced Cowart to make an official visit to Auburn on Jan. 16.
It was after that visit when Cowart 
knew he wanted to play for coach Mus-champ. 
Cowart, who cut his official visit to Florida short on 
Jan. 23 after his mother was unexpectedly called into 
work, said he kept coming back to the Gators, but ulti-
mately didn’t waver in his decision to attend Auburn.Sean Callahan, Cowart’s head football coach at Arm-
wood, said he hopes Cowart made his college decision with the right reasons in mind. 
Callahan said Cowart is one of the brighter players he 
has coached, and he would like to see Cowart graduate 
from college regardless of the inevitable lure of the Na-RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
Florida’s recruiting journey to 
the first Wednesday in February  
has been about as wild as anyone 
could have predicted.
In fact, the wildest thing about 
it is how uneventful it was up un-
til this week.
The Gators entered the week 
with eight committed players — including two early enrollees — and a class ranking near the likes of Florida Atlantic, Western 
Michigan and Temple. 
But Florida finished signing 
day ranked No. 23, according to 
Rivals.com, with seven signing-
day commits, seven blue-chip (ei-
ther four or five-star) prospects in the class and 20 of 21 verbal com-mitments signed, totaling for an average class rating of 3.29 stars.
“For our first signing class, 
first and foremost, the momen-tum that we gained has been fan-tastic,” coach Jim McElwain said. “The doors that we opened in this short period of time, back in the 
places that we need to be success-
ful at when we go out and recruit and obviously that’s in the state of Florida first, and then bumping 
into that five-hour radius part as 
we go up into Georgia is some-thing that we need to make sure we work on and keep getting bet-ter at. I think that we answered 
some things from all kind of cor-
ners of the state and that’s a good thing.”
Florida’s 2015 signing day 
started just like many anticipated, 
with Jacksonville offensive line-McElwain pleased by signing day results
His first class contains 21 players 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain speaks about UF’s 2015 recruiting class 
during a press conference on Wednesday in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
 POLICE SAID ANTOINETTE BANNISTER TOOK THE CREDIT CARD FROM THE TEAM’S LOCKER ROOM.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Less than three weeks after being arrested for reportedly 
stealing a teammate’s credit card in November, a former UF 
women’s basketball player was charged by the University 
Police Department with a second, earlier count.
Police charged Antoinette Bannister, 21, 
with a second count of credit card theft and 
fraudulent use of a credit card more than two times in six months — a third-degree 
felony — for reportedly taking a teammate’s credit card from the team’s locker room in September, according to a police report.
On Jan. 5, Haley Lorenzen — a fresh-
man forward on the UF women’s basketball 
team — reported her credit card was taken from the women’s basketball team locker room in September, according to the report.
The card had six fraudulent charges on it between Oct. 15 
and Oct. 20, according to the report. 
Those charges totaled about $150.Bannister was arrested on Jan. 16 for reportedly taking 
and using the credit card of Viktorija Dimaite, a redshirt ju-nior on the UF women’s basketball team, in November.
Bannister was removed from the team after the January 
arrest.
Huntley Johnson, Bannister’s attorney, contacted UPD on 
Jan. 19, according to the report, and said Bannister would sign an admission affidavit saying she stole Lorenzen’s card 
in order to close both cases at the same time.
Johnson confirmed he is representing Bannister on both 
cases but would provide no further comment.
In a notarized signed admission received by UPD on Jan. 
29, Bannister said she took Lorenzen’s card in October and 
used it to purchase a shirt and a pair of tennis shoes.Former UF basketball 
player charged with credit card fraud again
SEE SIGNING, PAGE 15Bannister
Cowart
Gators bring in defensive talent despite missing out on top recruit
“Hopefully he chose the school for the right 
reasons, which is the school itself.”
Sean Callahan
Armwood High School football coach
SEE COWART, PAGE 15National Signing DayXtional Football League.
“Hopefully he chose the school for the right reasons, which 
is the school itself,” Callahan said. “Not for a coach. Not for 
anything else. Because Auburn will always be there, Florida 
will always be there, but coaches come and go. I want to make sure he gets his degree and I want to make sure he’s happy.”
But even though Cowart opted to spend his collegiate ca-
reer at Auburn, UF coach Jim McElwain still managed to bring in talent along the defensive line in his inaugural class. 
He received a boost when five-star defensive end CeCe 
Jefferson out of Glen St. Mary (Fla.) Baker County High an-nounced he would be heading to Gainesville to play for McEl-
wain and the Gators for his collegiate career. 
Despite losing out on the top prospect, McElwain said he’s 
enthusiastic about the commits UF received, saying the class 
of 2015 features players who may end up surprising the Flor-
ida faithful. 
“Well, we got some real long, lean (guys),” McElwain said. 
“I think you guys are going to like some of these guys. They 
may be under the radar a little bit, and yet from an evalua-tion standpoint we felt they were great players. And guys that 
have a chance to really develop into being a force.”man Tyler Jordan faxing in his letter 
of intent almost immediately after the 7 a.m. signing window opened. 
By 8 a.m., the Gators had two sign-
ees with defensive tackle Andrew 
Ivie — brother of defensive lineman 
Joey — faxing his LOI in as well.
What then played out was a bit 
of a rivalry between Florida’s new coach and its old one, when three players committed to verbally or at least strongly considering coming to UF committed to Auburn and Will Muschamp. 
The most notable was Armwood 
High School defensive lineman By-ron Cowart, the No. 1 recruit in the nation. 
McElwain was mum about the 
impact of recruiting against Florida’s former head man.
“Well, obviously the guy’s a great 
ball coach and he had obviously some insights that I’m sure they were able to use. But it’s never about any-body else,” he said. 
“It’s about what we have and who 
we are, and we’re very secure in that and know we’re going to move for-
ward and be successful in what we’re trying to accomplish. That’s part 
of the game. I never really thought about it to be honest.”
At 11:35 a.m. McElwain got some 
good news, when the nation’s No. 1 
offensive tackle Martez Ivey signed 
to come to Florida. 
From there, UF got the ball roll-
ing. 
Shortly after 2 p.m., the Gators 
closed their day strong with the com-mitment of defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson, followed by the trio of ath-letes Jordan Cronkrite, D’Anfernee 
Mcgriff and offensive lineman Nick 
Buchanan in a 30-minute span.
It’s not the first transitional re-
cruiting class McElwain has ever put together, but if it serves as the build-ing blocks to something greater, it may be the last he will have to put together for a long time.
“Anytime you have experience 
doing that, I think there’s no doubt it helps. But each place is different,” McElwain said. “Each place has its different set of circumstances and things you need to deal with. But as I go back, I’ve gotta tell you the players are the ones, man. And the guys here have really accepted and jumped on board.”THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
UF signed five defensive linemen in its 2015 recruiting class
COWART , from page 14
Graham Hall / Alligator Staff
Five-star strongside defensive end Byron Cowart signs his letter of intent with Auburn University on 
Wednesday while his mother and a Chucky doll, dressed in Auburn garb, look on. 
SIGNING , from page 14UF signed two five-starsFOOTBALL
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Heading into National Signing Day, Florida 
coach Jim McElwain wanted to have at least five or six offensive linemen in his signing class.
With the Gators losing four linemen with 
starting experience from last year’s team, McElwain is essentially working from the ground up.
“That was something that we felt we need-
ed to do especially not because of the talent that we have but because of the lack of num-bers we had,” McElwain said.
And when Wednesday was all said and 
done, the first-year head coach reached his goal, signing six offensive linemen to next 
year’s roster.
In addition to five-star tackle Martez Ivey’s 
commitment, which McElwain said filled a big 
need for Florida, the Gators also signed five three-star offensive linemen in its 2015 class.McElwain credited offensive line coach 
Mike Summers — the lone coach retained from the Will Muschamp era — for his ability to keep up with recruits during the transition period between head coaches.
“He had been recruiting the area obvious-
ly,” McElwain said. “He built relationships with a lot of offensive linemen, just the nature of the position. Mike did an outstanding job, as all our coaches did.”
McElwain building depth at running back: 
McElwain does not plan to use a feature back.
He’s not a believer of having a running back 
carry the ball 40 times every game.
“I believe you need to have a one, two and 
three punch when you’re going in there,” McElwain said.
And with the group McElwain has in the 
backfield, that won’t be an issue.
In addition to rising junior Kelvin Taylor 
and redshirt sophomore Adam Lane, McEl-wain saw two four-star recruits — Jordan 
Cronkrite and Jordan Scarlett — join his roster 
for next season.
“I really liked the way these guys interact 
and understood how they can help each other 
and push each other through competition to be 
better,” McElwain said.Notebook: Recruiting class brings 
offensive line, running back depth
“I really liked the way these guys 
interact and understood how they 
can help each other.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach“But at the same time I wanted to see what fits 
best. My heart was telling me ‘Florida Gator, Flor-
ida Gator.’” 
Ivey was coached under Apopka High School 
head coach Rick Darlington throughout his four years, and has been on the Class 8A state title teams in 2012 and 2014.
“As good a player as he is — that’s why we have 
all these microphones and cameras and this and that — I really believe that Martez is a better per-son.” Darlington said. “He’s got his head on right, he’s humble, he’s grounded, he’s worked hard these 
last few years not only on the field but also in the 
classroom, and off the field to make other people’s lives better.”
Ivey took his official visit to Florida in October, 
when former head coach Will Muschamp was still at the helm in Gainesville. With McElwain now as the head man, Ivey said 
he feels a buzz around the Florida football program as the new era begins.
“Definitely he brings energy,” Ivey said. “I feel 
an energy more than what they had before, and also 
it’s something new so there’s always something to 
look up to. It’s a positive thing to come in with a clean slate.”
Ivey wants to start something new in Gainesville.He wants to bring Florida football back to na-
tional prominence.
“I want to be that class that changes Florida 
around,” Ivey said.16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015
Morgan Moriarty / Alligator Staff
Martez Ivey picks up a Florida Gators hat after announcing he would sign with the Gators on Wednes-
day at Apopka High School. Ivey was the No. 4 overall recruit in the 2015 recruiting class.
Martez Ivey    OL ***** 6-foot-6 290 poundsFlorida football’s 2015 
recruiting class
Name Position Rank Height Weight
D’Anfernee McGriff    ATH **** 6-foot-1 225 pounds
Chris Williamson     DB **** 6-foot 185 pounds
Nick Buchanan    OL *** 6-foot-4 285 pounds
Richerd Desir-Jones    OL *** 6-foot-4 290 pounds
Daniel 
Imatorbhebhe   TE *** 6-foot-3 212 pounds
Fredrick Johnson    OL *** 6-foot-6 300 pounds
Tyler Jordan    OL *** 6-foot-4 275 pounds
Brandon Sandifer    OL *** 6-foot-4 330 pounds
Luke Ancrum    DE ** 6-foot-5 225 pounds
Keivonnis Davis    DE ** 6-foot-4 225 poundsKylan Johnson *** 6-foot-3 200 pounds     DB 
Camrin Knight *** 6-foot-4 220 pounds    TE 
Jabari Zuniga *** 6-foot-3 260 pounds    DTKalif Jackson *** 6-foot-4 191 pounds    WR Antonio Callaway    WR **** 185 pounds 5-foot-11 CeCe Jefferson    DE ***** 245 pounds 6-foot-2
Jordan Cronkrite    RB **** 195 pounds 5-foot-11 
Jordan Scarlett **** 210 pounds    RB 5-foot-11 
Rayshad Jackson    OL ** 205 pounds 6-foot-2Andrew Ivie    DT *** 270 pounds 6-foot-1Ivey wants to revitalize UF football
RECRUIT , from page 1“I wanted to see what fits best. My 
heart was telling me ‘Florida Gator, Florida 
Gator.’”
Martez Ivey
UF football Class of 2015 signee