We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 37 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
UF women’s basketball prepared 
to use underclassmen
The Gators’ three sophomores have impressed 
during training camp, pg. 14
Authorities seek to stop ﬂ  akka drug
Its presence is growing, pg. 4
Deputies arrest jail inmate for spitting
He reportedly spit on another jail inmate, pg. 9From young grasshoppers to judo 
masters
Asian Kaleidoscope Month held a martial arts 
event. Read the story and check out the photos,  
pg. 8
IT’S IN THE RUNNING TO BE 
A LANDMARK FOOTBALL 
BUSINESS.
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gators are ranked top 10 in the coun-
try, and now, so is The Swamp Restaurant.
The Swamp Restaurant, a food-favor-
ite for many on game days, was one of 10 
businesses located in college football towns 
across the country nominated on Twitter as part of the ﬁ  rst UPS Football Town Business 
Landmark Contest. The contest is a national competition for football fans to nominate their favorite go-to place on game days, Sar-ah Brown, a UPS representative, wrote in an email.
“We received several thousand nomina-
tions in phase one of the contest,” Brown said.
Five nominees will be chosen by online 
votes cast before Oct. 17 as a 2015 Football Town Landmark Business. The businesses will receive a plaque and an additional cus-tom prize. The winners will be announced on the UPS Twitter page at 8 a.m. on Oct. 24.
Each game day, 100,000 fans pass by The 
Swamp Restaurant,  said Nicholas Smith, the restaurant’s general manager.
“After 20 years, systems and procedures 
are in place designed to minimize the game day chaos,” Smith said. 
UF psychology senior Hannah Wendell, 
22, said she felt the Swamp deserved the rec-
ognition.
“Even if you can’t make the game, they 
make you feel as though you’re there with 
the echoing sounds of the stadium less than a block away,” Wendell said. Swamp Restaurant ranked a go-to
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF is reminding students to be 
mindful of their Halloween costume choices.
In Monday’s Gator Times and an 
email sent out by the Ofﬁ  ce of Soror-ity and Fraternity Affairs, students were told some Halloween costumes can be offensive.
“Regardless of intent, these cos-
tumes can perpetuate negative ste-reotypes, causing harm and offense to groups of people,” according to the email.
The message was sent out a week earlier than in previous years to give students more time to plan their costumes and parties, said Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs 
Mary Kay Carodine. She wanted 
to make sure incidents like the re-cent controversial Chi Omega “trap queen” photo didn’t happen again.
“It’s an attempt to have people be 
cognizant of the impact of their deci-sions,” she said.
Carodine said there have been incidents over the last three years of students showing up to parties in 
blackface, where students painted 
their faces to dress like African-American ﬁ  gures.UF Panhellenic Council President 
Maria Carter said the Greek commu-nity receives messages like this be-fore big events or holidays.
“We’re always trying to educate 
our members,” the 21-year-old tele-communication senior said.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email that UF wanted to remind students some costumes and party themes can unintentionally hurt others.
UF reminds students earlier to be respectful for HalloweenCAMPUS
By Lamia Chowdhury
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will ﬂ  ood CareerEco’s online 
booths in hopes of ﬁ  nding their future gradu-ate school Thursday.
The Career Resource Center is hosting its 
ﬁ  rst virtual Graduate and Professional School 
Fair, which will allow students to interact 
with graduate-school recruiters through the Internet.
Though there will also be an on-campus 
fair in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Thursday, the online fair will allow students to meet with recruiters at their own conve-nience, said Monica Moreno, assistant direc-tor of recruitment services.  
The virtual fair will give recruiters with 
limited budgets an opportunity to connect with students without the expense of travel-ing, said Jasmin Robinson, the center’s as-sistant director for recruitment services and events.
The virtual fair allows students to chat 
with recruiters from 24 graduate schools across the nation, Robinson said.  
The virtual fair targets students who aren’t 
on campus, Moreno said.
“With UF Online, PACE students, students 
studying abroad, a lot of students aren’t in town for the fair,” Moreno said.
UF information systems junior Brian Caul-
ﬁ  eld wasn’t aware the event was happening, but he said he doesn’t feel disadvantaged as an Innovation Academy student spending this 
term in Pembroke Pines.  He said he can al-
ways ﬁ  nd out what’s happening in Gainesville if he goes online.
“I see the day-to-day impact of the use of 
technology and virtualization and its ability to get information out faster, more in-depth and efﬁ  ciently,” the 20-year-old said. Career Center 
hosts ﬁ  rst virtual fair
An email was sent out
Mary Myers, a 22-year-old UF family, youth and community sciences senior, sips from her beer 
at The Swamp Restaurant on Tuesday. Myers said she comes to the restaurant with her friends when game day rolls around because it has a fun outdoor atmosphere.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
“It’s an attempt to have people 
be cognizant of the impact of 
their decisions.”
Mary Kay Carodine
Assistant Vice President 
of Student Affairs Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Mask You Live In
As part of October’s So Many 
Ways events, STRIVE (Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education) at GatorWell is 
screening and discussing the 
Representation Project’s docu-mentary, “The Mask You Live In.”  It follows boys and young men as they struggle to stay true to themselves while negotiating America’s narrow definition of masculinity. It will be in Leigh Hall, Room 207, today from 7:30 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. For more infor-
mation, please call Rita Lawrence at 352-273-4452 or go to the STRIVE UF Events Page.
Swamp Bowl Flag Football 
TournamentRegister for the Swamp Bowl Flag Football tournament by Oct. 20 at 
5 p.m. on RSConnect. Compete 
against teams from more than 30 universities. The tournament will take place Oct. 23 to 25. You can have just men or women teams that consist of seven players or co-rec teams with 8 players (4 men and 4 women). 
Adventure Race
Adventure Race 2015 will be taking place Oct. 24 at Lake Wauburg. If you have not reg-istered yet, you can still register on RSConnect to be added to the waiting list. 
Graduate Student Panel presented 
by HSFPre-professional? Come out to our Graduate Student Panel, where you will learn about vari-ous graduate schools. The event is free, dinner will be provided at no cost and scholarships are 
presented at every meeting. Join 
us in Little Hall, Room 239, on Oct. 29 at 7:30 p.m. Please RSVP at bit.ly/1ZsLRKv and join our Facebook group. Email us at hs-fscholarchapteruf@gmail.com for more information.
“First Colony: Our Spanish 
Origins” Exhibit Celebration“First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” comes to the Florida Museum of Natural History. This bilingual and interactive exhibit reveals the story of how Spaniards, free and enslaved Africans and Native Americans crafted America’s original melt-
ing pot in St. Augustine in 1565, 
long before Jamestown. Join the museum Oct. 17 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. for a free celebration in-cluding hands-on activities and displays. For more information, call 352-846-2000.
UF School of Theatre + Dance Presents ‘The Drowsy Chaperone’“The Drowsy Chaperone," a Tony 
Award-winning musical that pays 
homage to musical comedies of America’s Jazz Age, will be per-formed from Friday until Oct. 25 in UF’s Constans Theatre. Performance times are 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and Oct. 20-24, and at 2 p.m. Sunday and Oct. 25. Tickets are $13 for 
UF students, $15 for UF faculty/
staff and senior citizens and $18 for the general public. More in-formation is available at arts.ufl.edu/calendar. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office, by calling 352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation online using 
#DrowsyChaperoneUF.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 37
HIGH  88° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Kristine   
  Janata, Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Michael  Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
The need to renovate Norman 
Hall and the discontinuation of 
UF’s TapShield app were dis-cussed at Tuesday night’s UF Stu-dent Government meeting.
Recommendations for commit-
tee chairs were also passed unani-mously. Austin Champoux (Im-pact) was approved as Allocations Chair, and Andrea Newport-Jones was approved as Information and Communications Chair (Impact).
Smith Meyers (Impact, Bud-
get and Appropriations Chair-
man), Jason Richards (Impact, 
Judiciary) and Maddie McClinton (Swamp, Rules and Ethics Com-mitee Chair) kept their seats.
Matthew Hoeck (Access), di-
rector of external affairs, spoke in favor of the Norman Hall reso-lution, which says SG supports Norman Hall renovations. The 
building has had issues with wa-
ter contamination and bug infes-tations.
“There are rare chances we 
have where we can feel like we’re moving our university in the right direction,” Hoeck said, in regards to the resolution.
UF’s education school needs renovating, McClinton said. Nor-man was built in 1932 and has had few renovations since then. It serves about 2,000 undergraduate and graduate students.
Ed Posey, a university police 
administrative coordinator, said 
UF’s TapShield app will be dis-
continued after Nov. 30. The com-pany that makes the app is trying to sell it to someone else.
UF will be creating a new app, 
SafeGator, which could be com-pleted in three to four weeks, he said.
The university is still working 
on creating the app and determin-ing its content, he said.
The app will cost UF $3,000 
a year, he said. TapShield was created under former UF Student Body President Christina Bonar-rigo (Unite) and cost $50,000 to make, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
“If nothing else, it’s inexpen-
sive,” Posey said.   UF Senate discusses 
renovation of Norman
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF RESEARCH TEAM FINDS A WAY TO 
CONTROL PESTS IN WHEAT
UF researchers found they can treat insect prob-
lems like preventing the flu.A UF research team discovered a way to pre-vent insects and fungi from traveling with grain in the U.S. by closing and bridging off railways 
at specific locations, said Karen Garrett, a UF 
plant pathology professor and senior author on the study.“Sort of like if someone has the flu, we want to 
isolate that person and give them a flu shot to 
help them from spreading the sickness to other 
students,” Garrett said.
The main problem with managing and stor-ing grain and wheat in the U.S. is that insects and fungi can travel with those products and into storage units, which produces mycotoxins. These toxins can pose a health risk for people or livestock who eat the grains, she said.This has been an ongoing problem for decades, but Garrett said the researchers wanted to fo-
cus on the railway system and find strategies to 
keep pesticides from ending up in food systems.Florida’s mild climate increases the susceptibil-ity of pest problems in grain, she said.Garrett said she plans to use this discovery and apply her research to track seed distribution in the U.S. using the rail system.“The U.S. is pretty good at preventing problems from getting to us (Florida),” Garrett said. “The 
issue is if we can catch the problems sooner 
rather than later so it doesn’t result in mass amounts of wasted food.”
- Kendaline WattUF PROFESSOR FINDS LINK BETWEEN 
SEASONAL CLIMATE CHANGES AND MOSQUITO INFECTION
Mosquitos are more than annoying — they 
can be deadly.UF biology professor and researcher Derek Cummings and an international team of re-searchers found a link between high temper-
atures brought by El Niño, a series of climate 
changes that peak in the fall, and epidemics of dengue disease in Southeast Asian coun-tries. Dengue disease causes flu-like symp-toms that can be deadly and is spread by mosquitos.The findings came after about four years of analyzing and collecting data from eight countries between 1997 and 1998. The study 
involved an international team of experts 
with Cummings representing UF.With the findings, hospitals and doctors in areas most affected can better prepare for a coming dengue epidemic because the waves of infections can be anticipated, Cummings said.“Hospitals can start thinking of their staffing and start thinking about converting wards 
that they might be using for something else 
to be able to accommodate dengue cases,” Cummings said.Right now, there is no vaccination for den-gue disease, Cummings said.“The best thing that health systems can do is to prepare to treat large numbers of cases of dengue,” Cummings said.
- Oriana Bravo“There are rare chances we 
have where we can feel like 
we’re moving our university 
in the right direction.” 
Matthew Hoeck
Access partyBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF student Jeena Kar will 
use henna to decorate students’ 
hands with flowers, swirls and Greek letters.
Kar, a UF arts in medicine 
graduate student, will set up a henna booth on campus to help three Dance Marathon captains this semester. Each design will cost $5 and all of the proceeds will go toward the Dance Mara-thon teams.
Dance Marathon is a 26.2-
hour event held in March where 
students dance to raise money for 
Children’s Miracle Network Hos-pitals, like UF Health. 
Last year, dancers raised more 
than $2 million.
The 22-year-old reached out to 
Dance Marathon captains Thurs-day on the Design by Jeena Face-book page.“It seems like Dance Marathon 
is very big on campus,” Kar said. “The whole campus is working on it together.”
She said when she made the 
Facebook post, she didn’t know the type of response she would 
get because some people don’t 
know what henna is.  
Henna is a temporary design 
painted on skin using natural stains from dried henna leaves.
While Kar usually paints spiral 
and floral designs, she said she can illustrate Dance Marathon team names and Greek letters.
“I didn’t know how much in-
terest that would be (in my hen-na post),” she said. “I wasn’t ex-pecting it to be too crazy.”
She said she’s done henna for 
campus organizations and cancer patients but never as a fundrais-er.   
UF nursing junior Isabela 
Leon, captain for the family re-lations Dance Marathon team, is raising part of her team’s money 
through the henna booth she and 
Kar will run, she said. 
She said she hopes to raise 
$110,000 for her miracle child, Lucy Jane.
Lucy, now 3, and her family 
will be telling their story at UF’s Dance Marathon.
Leon, 20, said she learned 
about the post after her friend texted her about it.
“I’ve been really nervous 
about whether or not I’m going to reach my goal,” she said.
She said she got tired when 
she danced, or participated, last year for 26.2 hours. 
But every hour, a miracle fam-
ily would tell the dancers their story. That put it in perspective.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
ABOVE:
Jeena Kar, a 22-year-old UF arts in medicine graduate student, practic-
es her henna drawings on Natalie Bonilla, a 21-year-old UF health sci-ences student, in the University Auditorium. Kar will donate her skills and time on campus to help three Dance Marathon captains. She will charge $5 for her designs.
LEFT:
Paula Brito, a 20-year-old UF environmental science sophomore, mod-els Jeena Kar’s henna artwork. Kar makes her own dye using dried henna leaves.
UF Student will donate to DM teams with henna designs LOCAL
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Synthetic drugs such as spice 
started to appear in Gainesville years 
ago, and now a deadly substance called flakka is making its way into the community.
During a speech in front of the 
Board of County Commissioners and about 20 audience members Tues-day morning, Alachua County Lt. Todd Kelly addressed these synthetic drugs, focusing primarily on flakka — a drug formally known as alpha-PVP.  
“We’re trying to educate the com-
munity about what this is,” Kelly said.
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie 
Darnell said the presentation is part of a larger public safety campaign highlighting the dangers of certain man-made drugs.
“We’re going to stay tapped into this and we’re going to stay ahead of it,” she said.
The presentation noted a spike in 
Broward County’s flakka cases from zero in 2013 to 275 between Janu-ary and May of this year. This year, 40 flakka deaths in Broward over-
whelmed hospitals and police, Kelly 
said.
Symptoms include dehydration, 
hallucinations, excited delirium and eventually death.
Alachua County is far from epi-
demic levels, but despite Alachua County’s ban on synthetic drugs, they still end up in residents’ hands.
Kelly said Gainesville authorities 
went undercover and bought from dealers who advertised their prod-uct as MDMA or molly. Lab tests re-turned last month revealed the drugs were actually flakka.
He said synthetic drugs are usu-
ally ordered from China, where labs create products that mimic things 
such as cocaine, marijuana or molly.“If you have a fixation for smok-
ing or injecting or snorting, all of 
these synthetics are available in that format,” he said.
The problem, Kelly said, is the 
risk synthetic drugs create for us-ers and their community. He said 
certain drugs send the user into an 
excited delirium.
In this state, Tasers and batons 
are often useless to officers, who can’t handcuff the user for every-one’s safety.
It usually takes several officers to 
hold the person down until emergen-cy medical services can be applied, 
Kelly said.
Deputy Chief Harold Theus of 
Alachua County Fire Rescue said his 
teams use two medications to calm down patients suffering from excited delirium.
“Our primary goal certainly is 
our personal safety and our crew’s safety,” he said.
Users might hallucinate and fear a threat that doesn’t exist, causing them to lash out against anyone who tries to help – all while becoming ex-tremely dehydrated, Kelly said.
He said deputies are trained to re-
spond to drug overdoses as medical emergencies before acting on pos-
sible crimes.
“If you see something like this, 
don’t sit there and video it so you 
can put it on YouTube,” he said. “Call 911 and get this guy some help.”
After the presentation, Alach-
ua County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson condoned educating the 
community rather than simply pun-
ishing drug abusers.
“We threaten them with legal 
sanctions, but that seems to have very little effect,” he said.
Hutchinson then made a motion 
to play Kelly’s presentation on Com-munity 12 Television, which passed 
unanimously.
Authorities seek to stop flakka drug before its presence grows
What the flakka?
• Street name for the chemical
 Pyrrolidinopentiophenone
 (alpha-PVP)
• Sometimes sold as molly in 
Gainesville
• Derived from spanish word “flaca”, meaning skinny
• Sold as powder, rocks or pills
• Symptoms include:
• Hallucinations
• Fear of looming danger
• “Super-human strength”
• Feeling of being on fire
• Excited delirium can hap-
pen after taking drugs and 
again days later
The designs will cost $5
“It seems like Dance Marathon 
is very big on campus. The 
whole campus is working on it 
together.”
Jeena Kar
UF arts in medicine 
graduate studentWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
An ordinance to create a 
Gainesville Regional Utilities ad-
visory board is making its way through the City Commission.
During a General Policy Com-
mittee meeting Monday night, city commissioners voted unanimously to approve a revision to criteria for board members outlined in the or-dinance.Under the revised ordinance, 
the advisory board would consist of seven members residing within GRU service areas and receiving GRU services, said the City Attorney Nicolle Shalley on Tuesday. City and county commissioners cannot 
be on the board, she added.
The board will advise and make 
recommendations to the City Com-
mission on topics and items related to GRU, such as rates, fees, utility charges and budget.
The ordinance must pass through a first and second read-ing before becoming law. During readings, further revisions could be 
made to the ordinance, Shalley said.
During Monday’s meeting, com-
missioners also discussed another 
potential board involving GRU — a regional utilities authority board proposed in a bill draft written by State Rep. Keith Perry.While the advisory board would 
allow the commission to still main-tain control over GRU, the proposed 
board would place control over 
GRU into the hands of five members appointed by the City Commission.
The current draft has not yet 
been filed to the Florida legislature and is subject to change.
“The hope is to have people 
(on the board) that are not worried about running for re-election every 
three years,” Perry said.
Perry said he hopes the board 
will avoid the politics of GRU. He 
said he wants to have a board that focuses solely on GRU, and not the utility and array of other topics like the City Commission does.
However, some commissioners 
are wary and hope for more clarifi-
cation of the bill in the future.
Commissioner Charles Goston 
said on Monday he would like to 
extend an invitation, previously of-fered to Rep. Clovis Watson, Jr., to Perry to attend a City Commission meeting in order to hear more about the bill draft.
Commissioner Randy Wells said 
during Monday’s meeting that it’s important to clarify to voters that the oversight board would not be “the magic potion that’s going to give you lower (utility) rates.”
City Commission advances GRU advisory board ordinance  
CAMPUS
By Ebony Joseph
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students living in Jacksonville can now 
be part of UF’s accelerated nursing program 
without traveling to Gainesville.
This year, the UF College of Nursing will 
extend its accelerated program to UF Health Science Center at UF Health Jacksonville, 
located at 655 W. 8th St., 
said Kim Curry, the col-
lege’s interim associate 
dean for student affairs.
Students can apply for 
the program until Dec. 15, 
and classes will begin in 
May. Fifteen months later, they’ll have a baccalaure-
ate degree in nursing and will be eligible 
to become licensed registered nurses. This 
is nearly nine months faster than average nursing programs, Curry said.
To be eligible, students must have passed 
the program’s prerequisites within the past 
seven years, she said. They’re able to com-
plete them until the program’s start date.  
Curry said the degree will cost the same 
amount as traditional undergraduate tuition.
The program is meant for students who 
already have a bachelor’s degree but still want to pursue nursing, Curry said.
She said many students showed an in-
terest in joining UF’s program but could 
not move to Gainesville. With the Jack-
sonville accelerated program, students will receive the same lessons as their peers in Gainesville.
Twenty-four students will be accepted 
into the inaugural class. Curry said because of the program’s intensive nature, directors want to make sure everything runs smooth-ly before accepting more students.
Tori Adams, a nursing student in UF’s 
accelerated nursing program, said she was doing hospital visits and community service in her first few weeks of the program.
“It’s intense, but it has to be because 
you’re working with people’s lives.” Adams said. “It’s really fast-paced, but I still feel like I’m learning all that I need to.”UF nursing 
expands to JacksonvilleIt is still subject to change
“The hope is to have people 
(on the board) that are not 
worried about running for re-
election every three years.”
Keith Perry
state representative
LEFT:
Joe Courter, a co-founder of the Civic 
Media Center, waits to hear about in-come inequality and democratic so-cialism discussed in the Democratic debate from Market Street Pub and Cabaret downtown on Tuesday. “It’s going to be interesting, ” he said. “Ber-nie Sanders is opening a window on a dialogue that hasn’t happened in this country for decades. ”
BOTTOM:
College Democrats President and eco-nomics senior Jesse Fallen, 21, watch-es the Democratic Primary Debate with more than 40 of his fellow club members at Murphree Commons on Tuesday. While the club does not of-ficially support any of the candidates, the College Democrats look forward to hearing what the candidates have to say, Fallen said. “Our members will get a better sense of what the candidates stand for and how they cope with pres-sure, ” he said.
John Hursh / Alligator StaffNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Curry
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnEmpathy and social 
media don’t mix
So, Will Grier. Following the announcement that 
Monday’s press conference would be pushed back in order to acknowledge Grier’s suspension for vio-
lating the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s 
substance-abuse policy, social media was alight 
with memes and missives expressing disappointment and anger. While UF students worked through their grief, Flor-
ida State University students tried to spin the moment as a 
justification for their own former star quarterback Jameis Winston’s immoral behavior — it didn’t stick.   
Once the press conference actually occurred, and the 
circumstances behind the suspension were made clear, the 
online roar fell to a whisper. 
If the narrative presented by Grier is true — wherein 
he violated NCAA rules by failing to make sure the com-
position of over-the-counter medicine he took fell within 
guidelines — the only thing he’s guilty of is incompetence. 
This is something we all occasionally fall prey to and, in 
all likelihood, will continually do for the rest of our lives.
Although it’s a good thing the knee-jerk negative reac-
tion to Grier’s suspension has mostly sputtered out, it nev-er should have been there to begin with. 
The positive reinforcement that comes with amassing 
Facebook likes means people are all too trigger-happy to 
make snap judgements in the name of social media curren-
cy — the more relevant and immediate the witty comment, 
the more retweets/favorites/likes/what-have-you.
As we’ve said in the past, screwing up is what we as 
college students DO. 
If college had a general syllabus, drinking too much and 
bombing the occasional exam would fit snugly next to the pop quizzes on the course calendar. 
Even though many strive to become celebrities or carry 
high-social profiles, we doubt most could handle the scru-
tiny and criticism that comes with the territory. 
No decent human being — with the possible exception 
of leaders and politicians who ultimately shape the direc-
tion of our lives, and certainly not young men and women doing their best — deserves to have their every action dis-
sected, analyzed and held up for the masses to morally 
assess.
The next time you’re about to share a mugshot of some-
one you went to high school with, stop and take a moment 
to really think about what you’re doing. 
Beloved American treasure Neil deGrasse Tyson once 
said empathy should be a part of our formal education, and 
we’re inclined to agree with him. 
But alas, no academic has stepped up and offered 
EMP2001 as a course yet, so we suppose we’ll have to teach ourselves.
Yes, Will Grier and his family are in the public spotlight, 
and with the spotlight comes scrutiny. 
Yes, he certainly screwed up and should have been more 
conscious of NCAA rules and what he put in his body. 
But by and large, having empathy and not resorting to 
quick judgment has, as far as we’re aware, never hurt any-body.
Politics continue to Trump common sense
Somehow, these names don’t ﬁ  t together: 
George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Donald Trump. However, many polls measuring the presi-dential race predict Trump will soon be 
sitting alongside some of the greatest leaders who built this very country. So, as hundreds of thou-sands of Americans visit Mount Vernon and Mon-ticello today, I have to ask: Will we be taking our children to visit the Trump Tower?
Possible election outcomes don’t look hopeful 
on the other side of the aisle either. Bernie Sanders’ rally in Massachusetts earlier this month was said to have been the biggest primary rally in Massachusetts — ever. This “Demo-
cratic Socialist,” as he calls himself, is a contender against the 
Clinton campaign. An average of all national polls shows 42 percent of the Democratic vote going to Hillary Clinton, while 18.6 percent of Democrats are voting for Joe Biden, who still hasn’t decided whether to throw his hat into the ring. As days pass and the chance that Biden actually does run becomes smaller and smaller, the Democratic primary may be “Bern-ing up.” Then again, what if I were to tell you Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders leading in the polls was just a long, elabo-
rate joke by Americans, speciﬁ  cally younger ones? 
The lack of many Americans taking the campaigns seri-
ously, for arguably the most powerful position in the world, 
for the past two centuries comes from two sources. One has to do with how candidates campaign today. The radio changed campaigning in the 1920s, television did the same in the 1960s and now social media is the new medium that is transforming presidential campaigning. However, social me-dia may be doing more harm than good to the legitimacy of 
candidates. In the past, when a president or a hopeful candi-
date wanted to move the American masses, he would give a well-thought-out speech that reminded Americans what this country was, is and always should be. Today, we are left with less than 140 characters and hashtags to be pointed in the right direction.
Hopeful presidential candidates run their campaigns in-
directly, which leads to the second reason as to why cam-paigns aren’t taken seriously: the span of time. We knew who was running for president a year ago. President Obama still has an entire year left. With social media outlets like Twitter only fueling the ﬁ  re of the short attention spans of younger genera-
tions, we can’t really be blamed for not taking the 
presidential race as seriously as it should be taken. Along with campaigns becoming longer, they’ve also become less important. I can learn everything I want about every candidate, their views and rep-utations in a couple of hours surﬁ  ng the Internet. 
Therefore, there’s no need to even pay attention to campaign-ing or useless polls until months from now. People could say they’re voting for Trump, Sanders or even Ralph Nader. No 
one should care, because who people say they will vote for 
next year has nothing to do with what happens when the bal-lot is  in front of them.
The boring truth can be seen when looking at the yes, 
boring, but revealing facts. If polling and campaigning have changed dramatically, the importance of campaign fundrais-ing hasn’t. America’s two leaders in campaign fundraising, according to The New York Times, happen to be Jeb Bush and Hillary Clinton — not Donald Trump and Bernie Sand-
ers. Donald Trump is reaching mostly into his own pocket for 
ﬁ  nancing, while Bernie Sanders does not seem to be relying for large donations to run his campaign. But we knew six months ago it will likely be Bush vs. Clinton in the general election. It would be boring to follow elections for more than two years when we already know the results. To sprinkle in a little excitement, Americans want to continue to let Trump talk. He’s been funny, offensive and, above all, entertaining. On the other hand, poor and in-debt college students love the 
idea of supporting the “Democratic Socialist” if he’s preaching 
free college education, even if feasibly impossible.
Supporting candidates with extreme views far from the 
norm make drawn-out presidential campaigns entertaining. Let’s just hope young Americans don’t forget that this was all just some elaborate joke come Election Day.
Joseph Uvardy is a UF engineering freshman. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joseph Uvardy
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, celebrity proﬁ  le 
writer Vanessa Grigoriadis interviewed rap superstar Nicki Minaj for “The New York Times” in an article ti-
tled “The Passion of Nicki Minaj.” No big deal, right? Wrong.
This celebrity proﬁ  le is mak-
ing headlines because it didn’t go exactly as planned for Grigo-riadis. After pushing Minaj too far, undermining her and implying that Minaj thrived off the “drama” that is going down right now between Minaj’s labelmate, 
Drake; her boyfriend, Meek Mill; her men-
tor, Lil’ Wayne; and her label president, Birdman, Grigoriadis found herself uncer-emoniously kicked out of the interview, with Minaj calling Grigoriadis “rude,” a “troublemaker” and ending with the royal kicker quote: “I don’t care to speak to you anymore.”
Ouch.
Honestly, if I were interviewing Minaj, 
I’d probably be too starstruck to do more 
than silently gape, stumble over a few ques-tions about Minaj’s favorite things and end by stammering out a plea to be BFFs with her before ﬂ  eeing the room in terror. But hey, I’ve never even seen a popstar in per-son before.
Grigoriadis is supposed to be an old hat 
at this celebrity proﬁ  le thing. She has inter-viewed Taylor Swift, who she called “the good girl” and someone who spends time “wholesomely baking cookies” (I wasn’t sure whether to laugh or sigh), and Katy Perry before, among others.
Shouldn’t Grigoriadis have enough expe-
rience talking to superstar women by now to avoid the stupid mistakes she made, and 
admitted to making, in her interview with 
Minaj?
Celebrities abruptly cut off interviews all 
the time, whether to be petty, because they are offended or perhaps from boredom.
However, what happened with Grigoria-
dis and Minaj wasn’t exactly the same thing, and the article Grigoriadis put out about it gives less credibility to Minaj being as petty 
as Grigoriadis plays her up to be and more 
about how perhaps Grigoriadis was actually pretty rude.
On the ﬁ  rst read-through, the ﬁ  rst half 
of the article makes it clear that the writer clearly has opinions about the popstar that are less than positive, casting cheap jabs at Minaj’s Anaconda video as “frightening” and semi-insulting, of all things, and Minaj’s outﬁ  t at the VMAs as “a revealing dress that closely re-sembled the gold ﬁ  ligree on a chi-na cup.” In fact, Grigoriadis cites 
many times throughout the article 
the different outﬁ  ts that Minaj has worn in the past, and her disap-proval of them is barely hidden. I love hearing about what Nicki Minaj wears, but not through the 
lens of someone who seems desperate to drip sourness into every observation, you know what I mean? Throughout the article, 
Grigoriadis’ soreness over being kicked out 
of the interview leaked through a little too strongly for me to think she was just relay-ing everything with purely dry, objective journalistic integrity.
Grigoriadis also decided one possible 
reason Minaj ended the interview was be-cause she was trying to maintain control of the situation, rather than because Grigoria-
dis was being rude. She implied that Minaj 
ended the interview because modern-day interviews are about “adoration, not inter-rogation,” and any interview that didn’t heap praise at Minaj’s feet was one Minaj wouldn’t tolerate.
Of course journalism isn’t about adora-
tion. But it’s also not about putting women down for things that men do, and it’s not 
about subtly undermining the accomplish-
ments of others.
Grigoriadis made a classic mistake of 
internalized misogyny; she related Minaj’s power, position and identity as being vali-dated and dependent upon the men in her life. Swerve. Minaj shut her down and right-ly so.
Grigoriadis apologized in the article, and 
acknowledged her words as offensive, but that doesn’t change the deﬂ  ective tone of her article.
Perhaps we can learn from this. Learn 
not to judge or evaluate a female popstar, or any woman for that matter, based on the men in their lives. Learn not to put other women down for the sake of putting them down. Learn that perhaps the best way to 
dig into the motives and life of a popstar is 
to NOT imply their message is about control and dominance rather than empowerment and expression. And of course, learn not to mess with Nicki Minaj.
Sally Grieder is a UF English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays. Don’t mess with Nicki MinajColumn
The recent commemora-tion of Columbus Day, rightly rebranded to In-digenous Peoples Day by nine prominent cities in 
the country, provides an excel-lent point of reﬂ  ection as to who Americans are and what exactly America is.
At the forefront of any dis-
cussion of our American iden-tity is the notion of a “nation of immigrants,” which is widely represented by American school teachers as a “melting 
pot” or a “tossed salad.” 
However, these descriptors do a great 
disservice to our understanding of this re-
gion’s history by emboldening us to think before 1492, when the Western Hemi-sphere was some unpopulated wasteland, and its only salvation came in the form of Western European settler colonialism.
Our “melting pot” narrative has wholly 
distracted us from the historical truth that 
the Americas — a term which itself reeks 
of European arrogance and triumphalism — were, before its sabotage by colonists, highly populated and marked by incred-ible degrees of technology and social orga-nization, as so brilliantly documented by Charles Mann in “1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus.”
The very commemoration of Colum-
bus Day, ofﬁ  cially deemed a U.S. federal holiday in 1937, attests to the mentality of the U.S. government and the wholesale acceptance of the societal institutionaliza-tion of racism and genocide as a means of “nation building.”
But it’s important to acknowledge that 
while Columbus merits viliﬁ  cation, he was only one of many. The system that 
birthed him is still present, only now on 
a more global and more destructive scale.
Columbus was the pinnacle of arrogant 
hypermasculinity and hubris, ultimately convinced securing a passage to India and boosting the riches of West-ern Europe were intrinsically righteous ventures. The mind-set itself is identical to the one still used to justify the inherent 
goodness of the so-called “free 
market” and its global network of neoliberal control over world economies.
It’s shortsighted to simply 
rename Columbus Day without ﬁ  rst reconsidering our narra-
tive and realizing the extent to which the wrongs from 1492 are seen in our present 
structure. 
Rather than continuing to perpetuate 
such a deceptive account of our history, 
we would be better served in our quest to ﬁ  gure out who we as “Americans” are by discarding our happy, ultra-capitalist American Dream myth and replacing it with a destructionist dialogue of dispos-session.
Our history is thus shaped by colo-
nists, immigrants and the dispossessed. The indigenous peoples of the Americas murdered and purged from their ancestral homelands are still relegated to second-class citizenship.
A great proportion of Native Americans 
live in a perpetual state of crush, which is attributed to having been forced out of 
their ancestral homelands. This was iden-
tiﬁ  ed as a form of structural violence in which, through illusory “sovereignty,” the U.S. government can treat Native Ameri-cans living within the borders of their land as if they were living in a foreign country.
As a result, our indigenous populations 
receive little governmental support. Some Americans rebut by pointing out Native 
Americans' casinos — as if a few mil-
lionaires can let us disregard the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people who live in much higher rates of depression, poverty, addiction and suicide than their counterparts. After all, Native Americans were not even granted universal U.S. citi-zenship until 1924. 
Hence, as we reﬂ  ect on Columbus 
and our forefathers who valiantly came to America for one reason or another, tapping into the grand myth we call the American Dream, let us not forget for the indigenous peoples of “our” country, that dream was nothing short of a nightmare.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF  
linguistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays. Columbus: the prototypical AmericanColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
"Our history is thus 
shaped by colonists, 
immigrants and the 
dispossessed."8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer
Outside the stadium Tuesday 
night, Evan Forman flipped through 
the air and landed on his back.
The 23-year-old UF chemical 
engineering graduate student was flung over Brandon Fung’s shoulder during a judo technique demonstra-tion.
Fung, a 20-year-old UF marketing 
junior, faced about 15 participants 
during Throwdown, one of the sev-
eral Asian and Asian-American cul-tural events taking place throughout the month as part of Asian Kalei-
doscope Month. Fung and Forman, both members of the UF Judo Club, 
came to the event with other club 
members to teach participants basic 
self-defense techniques.
“I really wanted to create an 
event where participants could walk 
away feeling empowered and safe,” 
said Vicki Le, a 20-year-old UF ap-plied physiology and kinesiology junior and one of the event’s direc-tors.
During the event, the Judo Club members taught participants about the history of different ways of fight-
ing, such as clinching and striking. 
They provided demonstrations of the techniques and then had the participants partner-up and practice.
This was Nancy Nguyen’s first 
self-defense class.
“I thought it was very interest-
ing,” said the 19-year-old health sci-ence sophomore.
Le said the event was mainly in-tended to showcase the importance of martial arts in the Asian culture 
and build a connection with the par-
ticipants.
“Culture is very important to us,” 
Le said.
Le was also motivated to host 
this event because of her experience at a self-defense class.
“I thought it was very empow-
ering, so I thought that would be a 
good event to host,” Le said.From young grasshoppers to judo masters   
AKM martial arts event
 Jessica Lim Liwag (right), a 20-year-old UF health science sophomore, teaches John Ferrer, a 
20-year-old UF health science junior, a judo technique called a standing armbar. Asian Kaleido-scope Month hosted the free event to show students how to protect themselves.
All photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Brandon Fung (right), a 20-year-old UF marketing junior, flips Evan Forman, a 23-year-old UF chemical engineering graduate student, over his shoulder at Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s martial arts work-shop. Both students are a part of the UF Judo Club and were dem-onstrating various judo techniques on Tuesday night.
 John Kammer, 66, teaches students the basics of judo on Tuesday night at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium during Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s Throwdown event. Kammer has been teaching judo for 43 years. He instructed students on basic techniques of striking, clinch-fighting and breaking grips.
LEFT:
Carolina Sepulveda (left), a 17-year-old UF biology freshman, is taught a wrist lock hold by Emily Phan, a 19-year-old electrical engineering sophomore.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
SET, SPIKE, CURE
Whitney Letourneau, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior, prepares to spike a 4-foot-tall sport ball during the 
Big Pink Volleyball tournament at Southwest Recreation Center on Tuesday. Participants donated $5 to enter the competition, with all proceeds going toward the Breast Cancer Research Fund with UF Health.
STUDENTS WILL LEARN TO 
PITCH A  BUSINESS MODEL.
By Sara Perlman
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can pitch their business 
ideas to Gainesville entrepreneurs today.
In Stuzin Hall at 5 p.m., Gator Innova-
tors, an entrepreneurship club, will host a 
panel for Gainesville business starters to 
talk with UF students about how to be a 
successful entrepreneur.
The panel, called Demo Day, offers a platform for startups to demonstrate its product, will be the ﬁ  rst of its kind, said Guru Sharan, a UF graduate student study-ing electrical and computer engineering.  
Demo Day was created to promote en-
trepreneurship in Gainesville, the 24-year-
old said.
Students will learn how to pitch a busi-
ness model and create a startup company, 
Sharan said.
“A lot of students are seeking leadership 
and don’t know where to ﬁ  nd the resourc-es,” Sharan said.
David Whitney, the assistant director of UF’s Engineering Innovation Institute and a UF professor, will be the main speaker at the event.
Whitney said he hopes to teach the stu-
dents to always play to win — as Gators do.
He also said his presentation will show the students how to identify problem-solv-ing ideas and how to commercialize them successfully.
“I expect that the students will take 
away an actionable plan for entrepreneur-ial success,” Whitney said.
UF mechanical engineering senior Adam 
Silver said he will attend Demo Day.
“David Whitney is very important in 
the entrepreneurship community, and I al-ways want to hear what he has to say,” the 22-year old said. “You never know what you’ll learn from such successful people.”UF club brings GNV entrepreneurs to speak about startups
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s depu-
ties arrested a local man Tuesday morning after he reportedly spit on a jail inmate while already serving time for past crimes.  
About 1:25 a.m. Tuesday, Yomi 
C. Williams, 19, walked outside a nearby jail cell in the Alachua Coun-ty Jail and spit on a 19-year-old in-mate on the other side, according to a police report.
He was found guilty on June 1 af-
ter a March incident when he report-edly broke into a woman’s home 
and ransacked her bedroom and her 
daughter’s bedroom, according to a Gainesville Police report.
Williams later told authorities he 
never spit on the inmate. He claimed to be whispering to the inmate and avoiding detention deputies, accord-ing to the report.
Surveillance footage showed Wil-
liams walking to the inmate’s cell, getting close to a crack near the side of its door, making a nervous move-
ment and leaving, according to the 
report.
Williams also 
partnered with two 17-year-old boys in April 2014 to beat a Gainesville deliv-ery driver with a 
brick and steal his pizzas, Gainesville 
Police Department spokesman Ben 
Tobias wrote in an email.
He said Williams is not suspected 
of hitting the driver, but he did help plan the robbery.
Deputies charged Williams for 
battery by a person detained in a jail facility, which is a third-degree 
felony.   Deputies arrest jail 
inmate for spitting
Williams
“A lot of students are seeking 
leadership and don’t know where to 
ind the resources.”
Guru Sharan
UF graduate studentWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
WANTED: Serious student for peace & 
quiet. Private 1BR, unfurnished, garage apt in town, NW Gainesville. $325/mo. Call 376-6294    10-19-5-2
MUST SEE-
3/2 house minutes from UF and Shands.
Beautiful inside - upgraded kitchen with 
granite and stainless steel appliances, large 
fenced in back yard. $1400. 727-512-2468. 
Available immediately.    10-20-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
CONDO FOR SALE:Meadowbrook Golf Course Upstairs Corner Unit, 2/2, 1273 Sq Ft. MLS # 367033 $124,900. Call Mary Jo Brick 352-219-0430 San Felasco Real Estate Services, Inc for an appt.    10-14-15-5-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLC
Real Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-16-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
ACROSS
1 Volkswagen
Type 1, familiarly
4 Yemeni neighbor
9 Old-timey oath
13 1956 Gregory
Peck role
15 Add a lane to,
say
16 University of New
Mexico athlete
17 Irish city in a
recession?
19 Watched warily20 One with a stable
job?
21 Like dotted
musical notes
23 Cellphone
accessories
26 Body work,
briefly
27 Result of a
Czech checkup?
33 Catches some
rays
37 Home ec
alternative
38 Louisville’s KFC
Yum! Center,e.g.
39 Dessert pancake41 Part of USDA:
Abbr.
42 Spirited
diversions
43 Febreze targets44 It’s on the house46 Not as pricey47 North African
dieter’s light fare?
50 Originally called51 Jackhammer
sound
56 Malady61 Thrill to pieces62 Bibliog. catchall63 South Korean
sailors?
66 Cartoon maker of
explosive tennisballs
67 Pile up68 Jib or mizzen69 Where to store
hoes and hoses
70 Tense with
excitement
71 Genetic material
DOWN
1 Western movie
star?2 Crewmate of
Chekov and Sulu
3 Eva or Zsa Zsa
4 Part of BYOB
5 Prefix with day
or night
6 Fusses
7 Small salamander
8 Present from birth
9 Like a political
“college”
10 Fiesta Baked
Beans maker
11 Collude with12 Extinct bird
14 Gooey clump18 “It’s not too late
to call”
22 Waterway with
locks
24 JAMA
subscribers
25 Much of Libya28 “Diary of a
Madman” author
29 Hubbub30 Bone-dry
31 26-Across
materials
32 Fresh talk
33 Craig Ferguson,
by birth
34 Pakistani
language35 Eye-catching
sign
36 Rained gently40 City on the
Ruhr
45 Cosmetics-
testing org.
48 Playground
piece
49 Originate (from)52 Wistful word53 Golden Horde
member54 Ordered pizza,
perhaps
55 Car named for a
physicist
56 Wet septet57 Scratching target58 Attended the
party
59 Big Mack60 Fly like an eagle64 “It’s no __!”65 “Dropped” ’60s
drug
By Dan Margolis(c)2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/14/1510/14/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 14, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an
after school program at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed.
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
10-16-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
1. LITERATURE: In which of 
Shakespeare’s plays does the charac-
ter Titania appear?
2. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the oldest girl on “The Brady Bunch”?
3. MUSIC: What was singer Ozzy 
Osbourne’s real first name?
4. HISTORY: What was the first 
country to allow women to vote?
5. RELIGION: What is generally 
considered to be the highest group in the Indian caste system?
6. GEOGRAPHY: In what country 
is the famous Olduvai Gorge located?
7. SCIENCE: What area of study is a 
lepidopterist concerned with?
8. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the princess in the 1959 Disney movie “Sleeping Beauty”?
9. LEGAL: What is an inquest?10. ANATOMY: How long does it 
take blood to circulate throughout your body?
Answers
1. “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”2. Marcia3. John Michael4. New Zealand5. Brahmins, or religious leaders
6. Tanzania  
7. Butterflies and moths8. Princess Aurora9. An inquiry into the cause of an 
unexpected death
10. About a minute
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 12, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
19 Connections 23 Rides 24 Pets 15 Services 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida men's basketball player 
Dorian Finney-Smith was named to the Karl Malone Award watch list, the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame announced Tuesday. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF volleyball heads to T ennessee
The Florida volleyball team looks to extend its winning streak to three 
games when the Gators head to Knoxville, T ennessee, to take on the Volunteers. The game is set to start at 6 p.m. and will be broadcast on ESPNU.  By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Before Florida coach Jim McEl-
wain and quarterback Will Grier 
addressed the media on Monday 
to discuss Grier’s failed drug test 
for performance-enhancing drugs, Grier had a chance to talk to his teammates.
The meeting with the team took place about 30 minutes be-fore the press conference as Gri-
er explained the situation to his 
teammates and what was going on surrounding him. 
Considering the gravity and 
seriousness of the situation, Grier couldn't have anticipated a warm-er reception than the embrace the Gators gave him. 
The rest of the team appreci-
ated how open he was, and they showed their support for the red-shirt freshman.
“They hugged him,” McElwain 
said. 
“They care about him, and 
they appreciated his honesty.”
For Grier to be able to step up 
and talk to his teammates and ex-plain exactly what was going on 
shows the kind of character he 
has. 
McElwain said Grier reiterated 
to the team that it’s time for the next guy — sophomore Treon Gators react to Grier's suspensionJUST SOME HACK
Steve Spurrier 
was famous for a num-ber of things throughout 
his legendary ca-reer, but one of them was his penchant for swapping quarter-backs — anytime, anywhere.
If the Head Ball 
Coach felt a spark was needed from the position, he had no 
problem yanking his starter and 
giving the backup a shot. 
It didn't matter if it meant 
benching a future Heisman Tro-phy winner like Danny Wuerffel, or if it took place mid-drive against a top-10 team.
If you weren’t getting the job 
done, Spurrier would ﬁ  nd some-
one who would.
That’s exactly what he did 
Tuesday when he announced 
he would resign as South Caro-lina’s football coach — Spurrier benched himself.
“It’s time for me to get out 
of the way and let someone else have a go at it,” the coach said at 
his resignation press conference.
And that’s exactly how he 
views it.
Despite the notion being cir-
culated by some, the winningest 
coach in Florida and South Caro-lina history isn’t quitting on his team.
Sure, for a competitor who fa-
mously needled Tennessee with the line “You can’t spell ‘Citrus’ without ‘UT’” — a jab at the school’s routine appearances in the Citrus Bowl for ﬁ  nishing second to Florida in the South-eastern Conference — ﬁ  nishing out a 
season likely to end 
without a bowl ap-pearance wasn’t ap-pealing.
But this wasn’t 
about him. 
This was about 
South Carolina, and how the school was better off without 
him.
Clearly, with the way things 
were going, this was the Head 
Ball Coach’s last season. 
But sticking around to ﬁ  nish 
it off and having doubts over his future would have killed the school’s recruiting, as it did the past few years.
It also wouldn’t have given 
the school much time to ﬁ  nd his replacement, and in college foot-ball, a few weeks can make all the difference in ﬁ  nding a coach.
Announcing now that he 
would retire at season’s end wasn’t an option for Spurrier, either, as he would have lost 
all his “accountability” with the 
players for the rest of the year, as he put it.
No, he wanted to rip the 
band-aid off now, and he wanted to do so quickly.
Had Spurrier wanted, he could 
have spent Tuesday’s press con-ference joking and reminiscing 
over all the things he’s done in 
both Gainesville and Columbia. Head Ball Coach resigns on 
his terms, like he should 
INSTAGRAHAM
Monday must have been the hardest 
day in Will Grier’s life. 
Following reports of the redshirt 
freshman quarterback’s 12-month suspension after testing positive for 
performance-enhancing drugs, Grier didn’t shy away from his completely avoidable mis-take.
He walked to the lectern, addressed the 
media and admitted he had let everyone sup-porting him down. 
Family, friends and teammates alike 
watched as a teary-eyed Grier accepted he had gone from the starting quarterback of a top-10 team to a cautionary tale about the necessity of consulting with the team’s medical staff before taking any supplements.
The news of the suspension — 
and the aftermath we are currently living in — brought a ﬂ  urry of emo-tions and questions, some deserved and some quixotic.
What supplement did Grier take? The university denied it was Ligandrol, but 
couldn’t disclose what substance he took that was against NCAA regulations due to student privacy policies.Why didn’t he check with the 
medical staff? 
Grier and the rest of the Gators 
must have been frequently remind-ed of the importance in consulting with doctors to verify which sub-stances are legal to take.
There’s no way he didn’t know 
to confer with a doctor — he must have assumed the supplement he 
was taking wouldn’t get him in trouble. 
And the biggest one: Why does the NCAA 
suspend student-athletes for a full calendar year for a banned over-the-counter supple-ment? 
If it’s easily purchasable online or in a 
workout supplement store like Complete Nu-trition or GNC, there should be punishments of varying degrees rather than a uniform length. 
If it’s prohibited for athletes, who invest in 
their bodies hoping it leads them to athletic success and, therefore, income, why is the av-erage Joe who works out three times a week at Planet Fitness allowed to purchase it without consequence?
Student-athletes are held to a higher stan-
dard, and that’s due to a variance of factors. 
Will Grier disappointed Florida's faithful, but their pain can't compare to hisEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris (3) stands on the sidelines during Florida's 14-9 win against Kentucky on Sept. 19 at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Graham Hall
twitter: @Graham311
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE SPURRIER,  PAGE 15Harris prepared to start By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
JC Deacon walked up to the press con-
ference lectern and triumphantly delivered 
his opening statement on Monday. 
“Last week was outstanding,” he said. “It was, by far, the best week I’ve had 
as a coach here at Florida.”
Deacon is referring to No. 18 Florida’s 
second place finish in the Jerry Pate Na-tional on Oct. 6. 
All five Gator golfers finished in the top 
16 at the Old Overton Club in Birmingham, Alabama. 
UF had three freshmen in the top ten, 
with Sam Horsfield tying for fourth and Jorge Garcia and Kyler Tate tying for sixth.
While the Gators may be happy to have 
placed ahead of then-No. 3 Auburn and 
then-No. 1 Florida State, Deacon believed 
the biggest takeaway was the team’s opti-mistic attitude. 
“If you can have a great attitude, it’s not 
only good for you, but it’s good for the rest of your team,” Deacon said.
No one exemplified that shift in attitude 
more than Garcia did after getting off to a 
rough start in the first round of the Jerry 
Pate, shooting a 5-over 75. 
Deacon spoke with Garcia before the 
next round, encouraging him to stay deter-mined and maintain a competitive mindset. “We got into it pretty good,” Deacon 
said. 
“And he didn’t really understand where 
I was coming from and why his attitude needed to be a certain way. But he said, ‘I’m going to trust you coach, and I’m go-ing to give it my best.’”
Deacon described what happened next 
as one of the most rewarding things he’d ever experienced during his brief coaching tenure. 
“He got absolutely smoking hot, ripped 
it up, shot 64 — best round that I’ve seen in a long time.”
Garcia’s 64 tied for the lowest round 
of the tournament, but he wasn’t the only Gator in the zone. 
UF golfers finished below par in nine of 
their 10 remaining rounds.
Despite Florida’s strong finish, Deacon 
doesn’t want to get caught up in past re-
sults or future expectations. 
“Whether that is a win this weekend, or 
… in May next year, I don’t know when it’s 
going to happen,” Deacon said. 
“I know we are going to win. Results 
happen when you got a team that’s work-ing this hard, that has this good of an at-titude.”
The Gators will look to capitalize on 
that hard work and attitude when they tee-off next at the Tavistock Collegiate at Isle-worth Country Club outside of Orlando on Sunday.14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Haley Lorenzen shoots a free throw during Florida’s 59-54 win 
against Stetson on Dec. 14 in the O’Connell Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF men’s golf coach JC Deacon speaks during a press conference in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Nov. 24. 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Considering they only graduat-
ed one senior last year, it’s some-
what surprising that the Florida 
women’s basketball team is ex-
pected to rely heavily on young and inexperienced players this year.  
While the team only brought 
in one freshman recruit, coach Amanda Butler feels that the sophomore class along with a couple of transfers is going to 
make an impact early and often 
for the Gators. 
Haley Lorenzen and Dyandria 
Anderson, both true sophomores, 
are likely to be big contributors 
if Butler’s preseason impressions 
carry over to the start of the regu-
lar season. 
Butler has often emphasized 
the sacrifice that both Lorenzen 
and Anderson made by spend-
ing their entire summers in Gainesville training, and that sac-rifice is apparently paying divi-dends on the court. 
“Dy (Anderson) and Haley 
have really stepped up their games, there’s no question,” But-ler said. 
“They’re not freshmen any-more. Sometimes you let yourself off the hook when you’re the new 
kid on the block, and those two, 
I think, have made a giant leap in terms of their expectations for themselves and then what that 
looks like in a team setting.”
In addition to Lorenzen and 
Anderson, the team also expects 
immediate contributions from transfers Simone Westbrook and 
Tyshara Fleming, who both came 
to UF from junior college pow-erhouse Northwest Florida State College. 
Carla Batchelor, who trans-
ferred to Florida from Northwest Florida State College before last season, said that for Westbrook 
and Fleming, growing pains are 
inevitable.
“The speed of the game is 
totally different from junior col-lege,” she said. 
“It was hard for me to adapt so 
I think it might be hard for them 
to adapt but we’ll have to see.” 
Westbrook, though, is nothing 
but optimistic about transitioning 
to the NCAA level.
“I think it’s going to be a great 
challenge. I’m ready for this lev-el,” Westbrook said. 
“I worked my tail off at North-
west Florida (State College). My coach really prepared me for this level. I feel like under the super-vision of coach Butler, it’s going to be a great experience and I will mesh well.”
The other two members of the 
2014 recruiting class, Brooke Co-peland and Isis Young, could also see considerable playing time. 
Young redshirted last season 
after suffering an ACL injury dur-ing her senior season at Life Cen-ter Academy. 
Copeland is currently nursing 
a concussion that was sustained in practice last week, and a time-table for her return is uncertain. 
However, standing at 6-foot-
2 and able to play forward and guard, her size and versatil-ity could make her an interesting weapon off the bench for a deep Florida rotation. 
For Young, the season can’t 
get here soon enough. 
Now that she’s finally healthy, 
Young is eager to contribute for 
the Gators and hit the hardwood.
“When you’ve had to sit out 
a year and just watch, that really 
stirs something in you that it’s re-ally hard to explain unless you’ve 
experienced it,” Butler said of 
Young.
“I think she’s really gonna 
benefit from that year of just be-
ing able to study and to learn 
from other’s success and other’s mistakes and she has great role models in Cassie and Carlie.”UF prepared to use underclassmen
MEN’S GOLF
Gators noticing improved attitude, tournament resultsSophomores impressingThe fans, who expect the team they cheer 
for to blindly follow rules they may not agree 
with. 
The media — social and beat writers —  
who feel entitled to an opinion, subsequently subjecting athletes and the public to it. 
And, worst of all, the NCAA, who insists its 
student athletes are amateurs, yet continually subjects them to Big Brother-esque regulations and greater restrictions than prisoners. 
In short, Grier’s situation sucks. 
He can’t play while UF appeals the length 
of his suspension, and he can’t travel with the 
Gators to support his teammates.
And Gator fans, it’s OK. You’re allowed to be mad.Grier, who comes from a family that be-
came a household name due to Vine and Twit-ter and is aware of the scrutiny that comes with public success, understands the emotion vested in him by Florida fans.
You needed him. You needed him to suc-
ceed, needed him to lead the Gators back to dominance, needed him to bring about a new era of football glory at UF . 
Grier must know he let you down, and that 
pain won’t vanish for a long time.
He had it all — a budding star with a firm 
grasp on the starting quarterback role and a chance to be the face of UF’s revival.
But his career may never recover before it 
even took off. 
In a world where athletes are heroes, Grier 
proved to be his own Kryptonite. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Harris — to step up and take the 
reins of the offense.
While Grier’s failed test has 
the potential to be to a distrac-tion to the team, tight end Jake McGee said there is no time for the team to give any thoughts 
on Grier, and the team is focus-
ing on the game against LSU on Saturday.
“Big week this week, there’s 
really no time to focus on dis-
tractions,” McGee said. 
“(He’s) a family member, we 
love him, but a big game com-
ing up, and we’re all in toward 
LSU.”
The college football world 
was blindsided by Grier’s sus-
pension. 
The Davidson, North Caro-
lina, native, had come into his own the last three games for the Gators, leading UF to a 28-27 come-from-behind win against 
Tennessee, a monumental 38-10 
upset of then-No. 3 Ole Miss and a 21-3 win at Missouri.
The Gators climbed the rank-
ings in the AP Poll and now sit at No. 8, with Grier being an in-
tegral part of the team’s ascen-
dance to a top-10 program once again.    But as Grier stood at the lec-
tern on Monday fighting back tears, he knew he had the full support of his teammates.
“It’s something that comes 
out of nowhere,” linebacker Jar-rad Davis said. 
“But, at the same time, we’re 
really confident in the guys that we have. We fully support Will during this hard time. It’s some-thing he didn’t expect. We defi-nitely didn’t expect it.”
But with Grier now be-
ing sidelined for the next 12 months, it will be Harris’ time once again. 
Harris started the final six 
games of the 2014 season and went 4-2 as the starter.
Harris’ teammates said that 
his experience bodes well be-
cause he knows what to expect 
from Southeastern Conference defenses heading into Death Valley.  
“We already know what he 
can do,” Davis said. “Last year we saw him, and I was kind of surprised that he wasn’t starting this year.
“(McElwain) picked the right 
guy, and now it’s time for Treon to step up, take that spot back, charge on, and take us to the 
next checkpoint." FOOTBALL,  from pg13 Harris started the 
last six games of his 
freshman seasonIt’s easy to forget just how 
much he did. 
In 12 seasons at Florida, the 
coach had fewer home losses 
(five) than the amount of SEC 
championships he won (six). 
Before he arrived, the school 
had never won an SEC crown.
He won at least nine games in 
all 12 years, won the 1996 nation-
al title and revolutionized college football with his innovation on the offensive side of the ball.Then, after a failed attempt in 
the NFL, Spurrier took on the proj-ect of revitalizing the Gamecocks. 
Spurrier would end up trans-
forming a program that only had one 10-win season before his ar-
rival and eventually taking it to 
three-consecutive 11-win seasons from 2011-13. 
What was once thought of as 
one of the jokes of the conference suddenly became a viable desti-nation for the top recruits in the country under his reign.
Instead of dwelling on any of 
that, though, Spurrier repeatedly turned the focus away from him-self and onto the school’s future, answering questions quickly and pointedly, longing to get out of the spotlight.
He didn’t think he was the man 
to lead South Carolina anymore. 
And just like the rest of his 
coaching career, he wasn’t afraid to pull the trigger to remedy the situation.
It was time to go.“Let’s get moving,” Spurrier 
said, cutting off any further ques-tions to end his time at the mic. 
“I’ve had enough here.” SPURRIER,  from pg13 
COLUMN,  from pg13
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier prepares to receive the snap during Florida's 38-10 win against Ole Miss on Oct. 3 at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. Grier threw four touchdown passes in the first half against the Rebels. AP Photo
Former South Carolina head coach Steve Spurrier, left, and LSU head coach Les Miles shake hands after LSU's 45-24 win on Saturday in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
A battle between undefeated top-10 teams 
will take place in Death Valley on Saturday 
when No. 8 Florida (6-0, 4-0 Southeastern Con-
ference) takes on No. 6 LSU (5-0, 3-0 SEC).
 Both the Gators and Tigers are at the top of 
their respective divisions, and a spot in the Col-
lege Football Playoff could be on the line.
 Before the game gets underway, here’s what 
you need to know about the Tigers.How they got here: After its season 
opener against McNeese State was cancelled due to inclement weather, LSU has won ﬁ  ve 
straight games, scoring at least 34 points in its 
last four contests. 
The Tigers lead the SEC in rushing offense 
(346.4 yards/game) and are in the top ﬁ  ve in 
total offense (third, 468.4 yards/game), scoring 
offense (third, 37.8 points/game) and total de-fense (third, 291.4 yards allowed/game).
 LSU is also the only team in the conference 
and one of 10 in the country that has yet to 
miss a ﬁ  eld goal, with Trent Domingue hitting 
all seven of his attempts this season.Fear Fournette: LSU’s offense lives and 
dies at the hands of running back Leonard Fournette. 
The 6-foot-1, 230-pound sophomore and 
Heisman Trophy frontrunner leads the nation with 1,022 rushing yards and is tied for the na-tional lead with 12 rushing touchdowns, de-
spite playing one less game than his top com-
petition. 
Fournette’s 204.4 yards per game is almost 
50 more than his closest competitor — Florida State’s Dalvin Cook (158.4 yards/game).
Battle in the trenches:  LSU’s offensive 
line will face its biggest test of the young sea-son. The Tigers have given up just seven sacks and have allowed 26 tackles for loss, marks that respectively rank tied for fourth and ﬁ  fth in the conference. 
Florida comes into Saturday’s game with 
an SEC-leading 21 sacks and is tied for second with 49 tackles for loss.
A rundown on the series history:
Florida leads the overall series 31-25-3 — in-cluding a 16-13 mark in Baton Rouge — since it became an annual rivalry in 1953. 
However, LSU has taken four of the last 
ﬁ  ve matchups (UF won in 2012), outscoring the Gators 127-87 since 2010.16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015
AP Photo
LSU running back Leonard Fournette stiff arms South Carolina linebacker Skai Moore during the ﬁ  rst 
half of the Tigers’ 45-24 win in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on Saturday. 
Scouting Florida’s upcoming opponent: The LSU Tigers 
Florida’s recent QB struggles versus LSU
The Gators head into Saturday’s 
matchup against LSU without start-
ing quarterback Will Grier, who re-ceived a 12-month suspension after testing positive for performance-en-
hancing drugs. With Grier ineligible 
to compete, sophomore Treon Harris will draw his ﬁ  rst start since Florida’s 61-13 season-opening win against New Mexico State. However, this is not the ﬁ  rst time in recent history that Florida’s quarterback situation was in ﬂ  ux heading into its annual matchup with LSU. While coinciden-
tal, Florida has faced controversy at 
the quarterback position in four of the past six games that the Gators and Tigers have played since 2009.
Oct. 11, 2014 (LSU 30-27): After Treon Harris came off the bench and 
pulled off a fourth-quarter comeback against Tennessee, it looked as if Harris would replace Driskel as the starting quarterback against LSU. However, Har-ris was suspended for a reported sexual assault the Monday of game week. Harris was reinstated to the team the day before the game after the complaint was dropped, but then-head coach Will Muschamp decided to sit Harris out 
due to his lack of ability to practice during the week.
Oct. 12, 2013 (LSU 17-6): Redshirt junior Tyler Murphy made his third 
start of the year in place of Driskel, who broke his right leg against Tennes-
see. LSU sacked Murphy four times and the Gators amassed just 240 yards of offense in the loss.
Oct. 8, 2011 (LSU 41-11): With both Jeff Driskel and John Brantley nurs-
ing ankle injuries, freshman Jacoby Brissett started his ﬁ  rst career game for No. 17 Florida in a road game against No. 1 LSU. Brissett threw for 94 yards on 8-of-14 passing with a touchdown and two interceptions in the Gators’ loss.
Oct. 10, 2009 (UF 13-3): Despite experiencing concussion-like symptoms 
two weeks earlier, Tim Tebow started for Florida, recording 134 passing yards and rushing for another 38. His 24-yard touchdown pass to Riley Cooper with 50 seconds remaining in the ﬁ  rst half turned out to be the deciding factor in No. 1 UF’s win.