TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF journo community rattled by Hebdo
Something about the story goes here, pg. 20. Roadword on Southwest 16th Avenue could cause delays
The project will close lanes at night, pg 4.  
Sexolutions: Your guide to a better sex life in 2015
Robyn Smith is back for the new year with her sex column, pg 6. Coach Bryan 
Shelton and the UF 
men’s tennis team 
opens its season 
against William & 
Mary on Saturday. 
Read the story on 
Page 16.
59/35
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  12SPORTS 13VOLUME 109 ISSUE 77 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Christopher Dela Cruz, a 22-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior, sings a cover version of the song “Rude” by Magic! He was a par-ticipant in Dance Marathon’s Transform Today initiative to raise $150,000.
CRIMECYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
As UF students hurried across  
North Lawn toward the Reitz Union on Thursday afternoon, a group of Dance Marathon mem-bers called out from a table deco-rated with yellow balloons and red collection buckets.
“It’s a beautiful day to save 
lives,” said Jessie Anderson, a 20-year-old UF health education and behavior sophomore, hoping the “Grey’s Anatomy” reference would attract people to the table.
The excitable group was one of 
many scattered across campus, part of the group attempting to raise $150,000 for the marathon’s ﬁ  rst 24-hour fundraiser, Transform Today. As of press time, results were un-available. 
The event began Thursday at 
midnight, when the marathon com-mittee released a promotional vid-eo on its Facebook and YouTube pages. All the money donated goes to UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital.
DM programs at other schools 
have held similar events, though usually with less lofty goals.
“We haven’t seen a number 
quite this big,” public relations overall director Melissa Dukes said early in the day. “So we’re really excited, and we’ve gotten a lot of support from other schools and other Dance Marathons.”
While $150,000 seems like a lot 
to raise in one day, Dukes said, the size of the university and the level of involvement from the commu-nity are reasons for optimism.
“The way that we’re incorporat-
ing the campus and the communi-DM tries ﬁ  rst 24-hour fundraiser 
AMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
College students aren’t 
the only ones with alcohol 
on the brain.
A study released this 
week by the Centers for Dis-ease Control and Prevention shows that an average of six 
people die of alcohol poi-
soning each day in the U.S., and three out of four of these deaths are among men ages 35 to 64.
Alicia Baker, a GatorWell 
health promotion specialist, said she was shocked only because many professionals 
focus on the traditional col-
lege-age population when doing alcohol-related re-search and calculating death and injury rates.
“Binge drinking is seen 
more frequently in 18- to 24-year-olds and 25- to 34-year-olds, yet many of 
those that binge drink are 
not physiologically depen-dent on alcohol,” Baker said.
But, she said, the results 
weren’t otherwise surpris-ing.
“It shows that behaviors 
picked up in earlier ages, such as binge drinking in 
college, can affect health out-
comes as you get older,” she said.
Carlos Hernandez, a 
Counseling and Wellness Center counselor, said this 
study doesn’t mean college 
students aren’t drinking.
“Just because the study 
found more deaths due to 
alcohol poisoning among 
older people, it doesn’t mean that college students are drinking less,” Hernan-
dez said.Study shows older 
adult age group most likely to die of alcohol poisoning
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville man was ar-
rested with synthentic marijuana 
on him Wednesday morning after 
police said he robbed a man and 
attempted to rob another man.
According to a Gainesville 
Police report, Taj Perry, 23, ap-proached Dale Copemann on New 
Year’s Eve when Copemann was 
sitting on a park bench on South Main Street. Perry then pulled a black handgun out of his pants, pointed it at Copemann and de-
manded money. Copemann gave 
him $40, and Perry walked away.
Five days later, Perry met with 
Ramine Dehgan near City Hall around 9 a.m. Police said Perry 
then pulled out a black handgun 
and pointed at Dehgan’s stomach, again asking for money. When Dehgan told Perry he only had a small amount of money and that 
Perry would get caught for the 
robbery. Perry then said, “I was only kidding,” according to a re-port.Police said 
Perry had less than a gram of 
Spice when he was arrested Wednesday  
morning. In 
2012, Perry was arrested on 
charges of robbery with a ﬁ  re-arm and illegal weapon posses-
sion. Last year, he was arrested on 
charges of battery, according to county records. 
Perry is being held on charges 
of armed robbery, aggravated as-
sault and possession of spice. As 
of press time, he remained at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $10,000 bond.
Local man arrested, police say he stole $40, found with SpiceSEE MARATHON, PAGE 4“Binge drinking is 
seen more frequently 
in 18- to 24-year-olds 
and 25- to 34-year-
olds, yet many of 
those that binge drink 
are not physiologically 
dependent on 
alcohol.”
Alicia Baker
GatorWell health promotion 
specialist
Perry
News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 77 ISSN 0889-24232, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2014
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TUESDAY
RAIN
76/58THUNDER-
STORMS
76/58MONDAY
CLOUDY
74/58SUNDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
59/35SUNNY
58/45SATURDAY TODAYFORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona     
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Aubrey Stolzenberg WHAT’S HAPPENING?
View personal collections at the 
36th Collectors Day Saturday
Join the 36th celebration of col-lectors and collections at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Saturday. This free event has attracted collectors from across the Southeast for more than 30 years. Visit with the collectors and discover that collecting isn’t just for scientists! For more information, call 352-273-2061.
Free RecSports Fitness Event
Interested in exploring state-of-the-art fitness equipment such as TRX®, Power Plate® and Kinesis® and formats such as Mat Pilates, Inversion Yoga and Yin Yoga? UF RecSports is holding a free open house event promoting small group train-
ing. Register on RSConnect 
for a free 30-minute demo on Tuesday or Wednesday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. More informa-tion is available on recsports.ufl.edu.
Find out if Peace Corps is for you
A Peace Corps applica-
tion workshop will be held 
Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the International Center, Room 173, located in the Hub. The application deadline for Peace Corps programs departing this summer is Thursday. The Peace Corps office is located at the UF International Center in the 
Hub. Call 352-294-2267 or email 
peacecorps@ufic.ufl.edu.CLARIFICATION 
In a story from Monday, “U.S. lifts embargo on Cuban goods, enables further humanitarian work,” the headline and story stated the embargo on Cuba 
had been lifted. The embargo 
is actually still in the process of being lifted.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events, and keep them 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In a story from Thursday that ran under the headline “Santa Fe Senate president declines to run for re-election,” the story stated it was normal 
for Senate presidents to serve 
for one semester. It should’ve said it was normal for Senate presidents to serve for one year.Also from that story, a quote from Senate President Jeremy Pierce read, “This is the time, because when March 25 
comes, I’ll pass the gauntlet, 
and I’ll be gone.” The word “gauntlet” should be “gavel.”FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Hannah Bodem, a 22-year-old UF telecommunication senior, reviews her class schedule on her com-
puter in the Weimer Hall atrium on Thursday. Behind her, the television display shows the latest develop-ments in the Charlie Hebdo case.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The UF journalism community 
was rattled when news broke of the 
terrorist attack on a French satire magazine Wednesday.
Jennifer Tintner, a 20-year-old 
UF telecommunication junior, said she was stunned when her phone buzzed that morning, notifying her that multiple people were slain at the Charlie Hebdo.
“I was so caught off guard,” she 
said.
On Wednesday, several gunmen 
attacked the controversial publica-
tion after a cartoon of Islamic proph-
et Muhammad was published. The publication has been known for publicly criticizing politics and reli-gion through cartoons.
Tintner said she was angry when she read Hebdo was attacked be-cause of the content it published.
“They were expressing their 
opinion, and we should live in a world where you have the right to do so,” she said.
Regardless of the attack, Tintner 
said she won’t fear terrorists.
“It’s something that will be in 
the back of my mind; however, you can’t live your life with fear like that,” she said.
Terry Anderson, UF internation-
al journalism professor and former chief Middle East correspondent, 
said he plans to talk with his stu-
dents about the attack.
“The last several years have been 
more dangerous for journalists,” he said.
Anderson said he doesn’t think 
students will be frightened, but the attack still hits close to home in the journalism community.
“Most people who go into jour-
nalism understand that it can be a dangerous profession,” he said.
Patrick Yack, UF professor who 
has taught opinion writing and 
global studies, said the attack in-
fringed on the right to free speech. 
He said that any students studying global communications can under-stand the ability to express opin-ions is very different from other parts of the world.
“I think that journalists, or stu-
dents of journalism, need to be 
aware that in many parts of the 
world, it’s not safe to be a jour-
nalist,” he said, “and that level of safety that we enjoy in the United States is not universal.”UF journo community rattled by Hebdo
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Mark Lynas’ activism end-
ed when he threw a cream pie in anti-environmentalist Bjørn Lomborg’s face, yelling, “pies for lies.”
The 2001 dessert-themed 
assault of the Danish author — in retribution for his rejection of climate change — was the most dramatic act of Lynas’ activist career but not the ﬁ  rst.
Lynas, who is credited as 
the father of the United King-dom’s anti-GMO movement, spoke to a room full of UF professors and students at the Health Professions, Nursing and Pharmacy Building Audi-torium on Thursday night.
He talked about how, after 
further research on climate change, he found out he was wrong about genetically mod-iﬁ  ed organisms, the source for genetically modiﬁ  ed food.
Lynas originally believed 
GMOs were created by big companies and posed a health threat to people and the plan-et. He discovered that the same scientiﬁ  c research show-ing how the Earth’s climate has warmed over the years held the same accuracy when applied to GMOs.“I was discovering scien-
tiﬁ  c disciplines I couldn’t even pronounce,” Lynas said.
Now the man that started 
the anti-GMO movement in 
the ‘90s has worked to ﬁ  x his 
mistake, over the past decade.
Fears of GMOs tend to be 
culturally speciﬁ  c, he said. In the UK, it’s believed GMOs 
will cause cancer, while in the 
U.S., it’s believed GMOs will cause autism in children, he 
added.
Victoria Turbyﬁ  ll, 21, said 
she learned more about GMOs and felt Lynas’ presentation 
was informative.
“I think he has the most 
modern and up-to-date knowledge on GMO stabil-
ity,” the UF plant genetics se-
nior said.
Lynas continues his GMO 
crusade at Cornell Univer-
sity’s program, Alliance for 
Science, which is committed 
to agricultural sciences and 
biotechnology in developing 
countries.Anti-GMO activist 
had change of heart, gives talk at UF 
“I think he has the 
most modern and up-to-
date knowledge on GMO 
stability.”
Victoria Turbyﬁ  ll
UF studentCARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Drivers will experience lane and speed 
reductions on Northwest 16th Avenue 
due to a 4-mile reconstruction project.
The Northwest 16th Avenue Transfor-
mation Project involves the milling, re-
surfacing and reconstruction of the road 
area between Northwest 57th Terrace and Northwest 13th Street, according to a press release.
There will be nighttime lane closures 
along the project’s span and daytime clo-
sures at Northwest 51st Street. Lanes have 
been reduced to one in each direction from Northwest 31st Drive to Northwest 22nd Street, the release said.
Speed limits have been temporarily 
reduced to 30 mph in the area, said Brian Singleton, Alachua County transportation engineering manager.
“The corridor of the pavement was be-
yond its useful life, so it was time to resur-face the roadway and bring that corridor up to current standards,” Singleton said.
The project will also widen a section of 
the avenue to four lanes and expand side-walks. Pedestrian faculties will be upgrad-ed to meet the Americans with Disabilities Act requirements, and the walls along the road will be stabilized.
Jake Kornblum lives off of Northwest 
16th Avenue and Northwest 13th Street, right next to Gainesville High School.
The 22-year-old said the speed-limit 
change and lane reduction has made his 
commute to campus and Archer Road 
“brutal.”
“It just takes twice the amount of time 
that it would before,” the UF business management master’s student said. He now tries to take alternate routes to cam-pus.
The project is expected to be completed 
in May.4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
AP Photo
St. Petersburg Police officers take John Nicholas Jonchuck from police headquarters downtown to the 
Pinellas County Jail on Thursday. Jonchuck, 25, drove toward a bridge over Tampa Bay, pulled his car over early Thursday, took his 5-year-old daughter and tossed her over the rail.
ty, we’re really making an effort to reach out to both and engage everyone,” she said. “It’s just a really great way to start off the year and the semester.” 
Along with volunteers scattered across 
campus, other team members looked for new ways to raise money. There was a Phone-a-Thon in Matherly Hall from 5 to 9 p.m. where callers reached out to friends and family for do-nations. Facebook statuses flooded newsfeeds, with one member offering to drop her Mar-riage and Family class for a donation. 
Some businesses got involved, too. For ev-
ery like Campus USA Credit Union got on its Facebook page, the company donated $1 to the cause.
Next to Anderson Hall, 20-year-old Nedim 
Haveric tried a more sentimental approach to the passers-by. 
“We literally would have frozen to death if 
it wasn’t for people like you,” the UF industrial and systems engineering junior said to a donor. “Because you’re warming our hearts!”
Michelle Nguyen, a 21-year-old UF finance 
junior, said the group had been told it was the most energetic by fundraiser organizers.
“But ... I don’t know what they’re thinking,” 
she said about 30 seconds after she cheered loudly, drumming the table as a student dropped a donation in her bucket.Team confident
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ST. PETERSBURG — Just 12 
hours before police said John Jon-
chuck threw his 5-year-old daugh-ter off a bridge — perhaps while 
she was still alive — the father 
calmly told a sheriff’s deputy he didn’t want to hurt himself or his little girl and had “new clarity in his life.”
The officer had made a point of interviewing Jonchuck in person because Jonchuck’s own attorney 
frantically called 911 to report that 
he was acting “strange.” The at-torney, Genevieve Torres, said Jon-chuck had called her “God” and asked her to translate a Bible in Swedish when they met Wednes-day to talk about Jonchuck’s cus-tody case for his daughter, Phoebe.
Yet, when police talked to Jon-
chuck at length, everything ap-peared OK.
Then police encountered Jon-
chuck again shortly after midnight Wednesday. He was going about 100 mph toward the Sunshine Sky-way bridge. By the time an officer caught up with him, Jonchuck had pulled over close to the bridge.
Jonchuck got out and started 
toward the officer, who pulled his weapon. Jonchuck grabbed Phoebe 
from the back seat and “held her face to his chest” as he carried her 
to the railing, St. Petersburg police 
Chief Anthony Holloway said.
It wasn’t clear whether Phoebe 
was alive when Jonchuck threw her 
into Tampa Bay about 60 feet below, though the officer said he “thought he heard the child scream,” Hollo-way said.
Phoebe’s body was recovered 
about a mile from the bridge about 
two hours later. An autopsy and 
cause of death is pending.
The Florida Department of Chil-
dren and Families said late Thurs-day that the agency received a call to the abuse hotline at 2:45 p.m. Wednesday “regarding the mental health of Phoebe’s father.”
The anonymous caller said Jon-
chuck was “depressed and delu-sional.”
Secretary Mike Carroll said a 
team is reviewing the agency’s in-volvement with the family, which included at least three prior inves-tigations.
Before her death, Jonchuck and 
Phoebe had an odd encounter with 
his attorney. Torres told the 911 
dispatcher that she had asked Jon-chuck if he wanted her to file paper-work in his custody case.
“It’s not going to matter any-
more,” she recalled him saying.
“That really scared me,” Torres 
told the dispatcher, her voice trem-bling. He was “out of his mind.”
Police found him a short time 
later at a church, and everything seemed fine. He told officers he was once on 37 different medicines for a variety of ailments, but none this week. He said he had recently lost weight and was eating healthy, “trying to better his life.”The church’s priest told a dep-
uty that Jonchuck had made the 
statement “I am the Pope,” only to 
then say: “I know I am not.”
Officers decided they didn’t 
have enough evidence to commit Jonchuck.
“She was smiling and appeared 
healthy, properly clothed and hap-py,” an officer wrote of the little girl.
Phoebe had long, curly hair, a 
wide smile and loved princesses. She hated baths and water, making her death even more gut-wrench-ing.
Phoebe’s mother, Michelle Kerr, 
was with Jonchuck for six tumultu-ous years, and police were called numerous times. Since 2008, Jon-
chuck has been charged with do-
mestic battery six times, but in ev-ery case, the charges were dropped or never pursued.
Kerr had an arrest record con-
sisting of child neglect, petty theft and contributing to the delinquen-cy of a minor, among other charges.
Jonchuck had custody of Phoe-
be, and they lived with Jonchuck’s parents in Tampa.
“I always saw him as a good 
dad,” Kerr said. “She would always say, ‘I love you, Daddy.’ She loved her dad.”
Jonchuck was charged with 
first-degree murder. At his first court hearing, Pinellas County 
Judge Michael Andrews asked him 
if he wanted an attorney.
“I want to leave it in the hands of 
God,” Jonchuck said.
The judge responded: “I’m pret-
ty sure God’s not going to be rep-resenting you in this case. You’re going to be standing trial.”Dad accused of tossing girl off bridge, called lawyer ‘God’Road work causes evening closures, delays
NW 16 AVE
NW 8 AVENW 34 STNW 43 STNW 55 ST
NEWBERRY RD  CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED CLOSED MARATHON , from page 1THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HAVANA — At least 25 dissi-
dents were freed Thursday in what 
a leading human rights advocate said was part of Cuba’s deal with Washington to release 53 members of the island’s political opposition.
Neither the Obama administra-
tion nor the Cuban government spoke publicly about the releases, adding to the unanswered ques-tions swirling around the deal and the broader detente that the two countries announced Dec. 17.
President Barack Obama ended 
five decades of official U.S. hostility toward communist-governed Cuba by announcing that — along with an exchange of men held on espionage charges — he would move toward full diplomatic ties, drop regime change as a U.S. goal and use his executive authority to punch holes in the longstanding trade embargo.
His Cuban counterpart, Raul 
Castro, welcomed the announce-ment but said detente would not lead Cuba to change its single-party political system or centrally planned economy.
U.S. officials told reporters on 
Dec. 17 that Cuba had agreed to free 53 detainees considered by Wash-ington to be high-priority political prisoners. Castro said they would be released in “a unilateral way.” But since then, neither Cuba nor the U.S. has publicly identified anyone on the list or announced they have gone free.
Facing criticism at home, U.S. 
officials said they never expected Cuba to move immediately to re-lease the prisoners. They said the U.S. was avoiding public com-plaints that could provoke backlash from Cuban officials.
For many Cuban-Americans and 
U.S. conservatives, the apparent lack of movement supported com-plaints that Obama’s secretly nego-tiated deal was too opaque and had failed to win sufficient concessions from Cuba.
“It’s unfair for us Cubans and 
Cuban-Americans not to be able to influence this situation that has such a tremendous relevance for the future of Cuba,” said Francisco “Pepe” Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National Founda-tion.
On Wednesday, the head of 
Cuba’s Human Rights and Recon-ciliation Commission, Elizardo San-chez, told The Associated Press that 19-year-old twins Diango Vargas Martin and Bianko Vargas Martin had been released without any of the judicial procedures that nor-mally precede the end of political cases. A few hours later, he said a third dissident, Enrique Figuerola Miranda, was let go under similar circumstances.
On Thursday morning, he said prisoners Ernesto Riveri Gascon and Lazaro Romero Hurtado had also been released, then his group announced more releases through-out the day. Many were in far east-ern Cuba, the base of the Patriotic Union of Cuba, a small dissident group considered to be the coun-try’s most vehemently anti-govern-ment.FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Devesh Amin, a 20-year-old UF microbiology sophomore, pours hot chocolate into a disposable cup at a Gator Wesley tabling event Thursday afternoon on Turlington Plaza.
AP Photo
In this April 9, 2013 file photo, military guards stand in a room decorated with an image of revolutionary hero Ernesto “Che” Guevara outside prison cells at the Combinado del Este prison during a media tour in Havana.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON  
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
The weather will be warming up over the weekend, 
according to the National Weather Service.
Temperatures are expected to hover in the 50s today 
and Saturday before bouncing up into the 70s on Sun-
day, meteorologist Angie Enyedi said. Temperatures are likely to drop again next week from another cold front.
Enyedi said it’s too early to say exactly which day the 
next cold front will hit, but as of right now, she said it is likely to happen after Wednesday.
Thursday’s cold temperatures had students bundling 
up in jackets and scarves, but opinions on the freezing 
temperatures are mixed.
Santa Fe art freshman Raistlin Thomas said he hates 
the cold weather mostly because of the harsh wind.
“If it wasn’t windy, I wouldn’t mind,” said Thomas, 
18. “The wind cuts straight through the jackets. It’s aw-
ful.”
Until the weather warms up again, students should 
take precautions to prevent home and apartment dam-age. 
To avoid any pipes freezing and bursting as the tem-
peratures dip down, Amy Carpus, Gainesville Regional Utilities residential energy efficiency program coordi-nator advised to cover all exposed outdoor pipes with 
insulation, such as cloth and newspaper. 
She said residents can also leave a slow stream of wa-
ter running through the pipes. In order to keep utility 
bills low, Carpus said people can wear warm clothing at home to avoid blasting the heater.Florida’s hot and 
cold weather 
not going awayWEATHER
NATIONALDissidents free but questions hang over U.S.-Cuba deal  THERE WERE AMPHETAMINES 
IN HIS SYSTEM.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Medical reports 
show that the gunman who shot at students 
and employees on the campus of Florida State University had drugs in his system.
Autopsy and toxicology reports released 
this week by the medical examiner’s office show Myron May had .24 milligrams per liter of amphetamines in his system.
May was killed by police Nov. 20. The 
autopsy report shows that he had 24 gun-
shot wounds.
The 31-year-old May shot inside and just 
outside the campus library where hundreds 
of students were studying. Three people 
were hit, and one student was left paralyzed 
from the waist down.
May was a 2005 FSU graduate. Police 
reports show that he had previously com-
plained that cameras were watching him in his apartment and that he heard voices talk -
ing about him.Medical 
reports show FSU shooter was on drugsReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Good morning, Gators, and happy Friday. If you’re 
reading this, congratulations! You’ve survived Thursday’s 
unnaturally frigid weather and lived to ﬁ  ght another day. Presumably, you made it through syllabus week as well. For that, give yourself a pat on the back and take a gander at this last-day-of-the-ﬁ  rst-week-of-school edition of... 
Darts & Laurels
An explosion rocked an ofﬁ  ce building belonging to the 
NAACP in Colorado Springs on Tuesday. No culprit has been found, and no one was injured, partially because a can of gasoline left with the bomb didn’t catch ﬂ  ame. Still, this attack against a civil rights organization is deeply un-settling, especially given the context of last year’s re-igni-tion of racial tensions. 
That night, #NAACPbombing became the No. 1 trend-
ing hashtag on Twitter. But the 24-hour news networks emitted hardly a peep about the bombing. At a time when social media can break stories almost immediately, the fact that an overwhelming number of news networks haven’t reported on a terrorist attack against the nation’s oldest civil rights organization is shameful. That’s why we’re giv-ing a this-really-should’ve-been-covered DART to our country’s major news outlets.
A lighter story: Same-sex marriage became legal in Flor-
ida this week. The state’s ban on same-sex marriage was actually struck down in August, but a hold was placed on the court decision. This hold expired Monday, allowing same-sex couples in Florida to receive marriage licenses and beneﬁ  ts starting Tuesday morning. Florida is the 35th state to enact marriage equality, and though we’re sorry it took this long, it’s hard to stay upset. So here’s a we-would-give-you-a-dart-but-we’re-too-darn-happy-about-this LAUREL to the state of Florida.
On a related note, Publix has decided to extend health 
beneﬁ  ts to married same-sex couples. The supermarket giant and peddler of delicious sandwiches probably did this in anticipation of Tuesday’s historic event. What this means is the spouses of Publix employees will receive ben-eﬁ  ts and health care plans, no matter their genders. 
Said beneﬁ  ts will even extend to couples living in states 
where same-sex marriage isn’t legal so long as they got married in a state where it is. This is a pretty big deal, be-cause Publix employs thousands of people in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee and South Carolina, as well as North Carolina and Florida, states where same-sex marriage is legal. 
Publix is making a bold move by showing it cares about 
its employees and their loved ones, even if the states they live in don’t. For its forward-thinking and generous stance, we’d like to extend a making-us-feel-good-about-our-selves-for-eating-so-many-chicken-ﬁ  nger-subs LAUREL  
to Publix.
That’s all for this week. We hope you have fun this 
weekend, and stay warm. We mean that.
Sexolutions: Becoming a sexpert in 2015
Welcome back, Gators. I missed everyone dearly 
during the break and can’t wait for this next year, along with its new eye candy, new late-
night adventures and new resolutions.
Here’s the thing, though: I’m not really a fan of typi-
cal resolutions. Anything that involves an elliptical ma-chine or lowering my pizza intake is out, and I don’t have the patience or self-control to stick with something for a whole year.
That being said, I think we could all stand to make 
a few improvements in our lives. Consider this a list of things to do in the coming — get it? — year. Without further ado, your list of sexy resolutions, or sexolutions. It’s a thing.
This year, try new things. That position you’ve always 
wanted to try but haven’t because you think it’ll make your butt look weird from that angle? Try it. You look great anyway. If you need an excuse, tell your partner I told you to do it. Let me know how it goes.
That toy you saw at X-Mart but were too embarrassed 
to buy? I’m sure it’s a lot of fun. Just don’t tell your grandma what you bought with her Christmas money.
Another resolution: Always use a condom. If con-
doms don’t apply in your relationship, please, for my peace of mind, use at least some form of protection and contraception.
Make 2015 the year to invest in your sexual health by 
protecting against sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy, which, if you hate children the way I do, is kind of a disease of its own.
In addition, get tested. It’s fast, easy and free at the 
UF Student Health Care Center. Plus, you won’t have to 
spend the next 300-plus days wondering if that sore is 
just an ingrown hair or something worse. You should get tested at least once a year if you’re having any type of sex.
This year, be respectful. I guess this can be part of the 
cheesy “This year, I’m going to be a better person!” reso-lution. But seriously, people all have their own sexual practices and are into their own things. Someone might cringe at what turns you on, and vice versa.
So, yeah, be a better person. 
Is it hurting anyone (and not like the BDSM kind of hurt)? 
Does it involve you? If the an-
swer to both questions is “no,” then let it be. Let people have sex however and with whom-ever they like.
This year, let’s focus more on enthusiastic consent. 
This is the year to end rape culture, or at least the begin-ning of the end. Make sure your partner actually wants to do what you’re both doing. Not only is consent neces-
sary for sex, but an excited “yes” makes sex SO much 
more fun.
You should be excited — you’re getting laid! But you 
should want your partner to be as enthusiastic about it as you are. Don’t just settle for a lukewarm “I guess we can.”
I ﬁ  rst learned about the birds and the bees 10 years 
ago. Not only does that make me feel old, but it tells me that it’s probably time for some updated sex ed lessons. 
Start an open discussion about sex and sex education this 
year. Have meaningful conversations, not just a high-ﬁ  ve the morning after.
I hope these columns can start a dialogue about 
healthy sexuality, and I hope the things I say can spark a conversation in your personal life. If you need a few mimosas at brunch to be comfortable talking about sex, that’s ﬁ  ne as long as you start talking. Also, I could never hate anything that involves brunch.
And if you have a comment or question for me, let 
me know. A good conversation is two-sided, and I want to know what you’re thinking. The new year might not have brought a new you, but I hope 2015 is your best year for sex yet. Plus, these resolutions are a hell of a lot easier — and more fun — than that diet anyway.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.
50 TOTAL VOTES82% YES
18% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThursday’s question: Are you cold? Today’s question: Did you contribute to Dance Mara-
thon during the 24-hour fundraiser? FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Earlier this week, The Associated Press re-
ported the Republican governor of Maine, 
Paul LePage, spent almost $53,000 on at-
torneys in an attempt to exorcise thousands of 
young people from Medicaid. The attempt failed. What’s even more frustrating about LePage’s 
actions is that Maine’s attorney general told the 
governor’s ofﬁ  ce the lawsuit would likely fail.
On the same day AP 
broke the story about 
LePage, a state legisla-
tor in Georgia posted a 
tweet that asked people 
what laws the Geor-
gia General Assembly 
should repeal in the 
upcoming session. Yes, 
a member of a body re-
sponsible for creating laws is asking constituents 
which laws to repeal. Perhaps using the court 
system to repeal laws is just too passe.
The ﬁ  ght over the size and scope of the gov-
ernment dates back to the country’s founding, 
but the asinine choices made by some elected of-
ﬁ  cials are wasting valuable tax dollars and time. 
Yes, the very people who claim to be against gov-
ernment waste, overreaching and wasting money 
are reaching beyond the limits of existing statutes 
in a bizarre way to score political points or land an appearance on Fox News.
While I fundamentally disagree with LePage’s 
views on health care, there’s no reason why he couldn’t pursue his changes through the legisla-ture and ﬁ  nd a way to provide access to health care for struggling young people. 
The new Republican-controlled Congress was 
sworn in this week, and, like LePage, repealing laws and dismantling President Barack Obama’s policies is likely at the top of its agenda. Progress be damned, regardless of the laws themselves and how they may actually positively affect the 
American people.
Why make laws when you can simply dis-
mantle and delete?
Sadly, our politics have grown so poisonous 
and contentious that many politicians rarely cal-culate how their actions affect those they serve. 
Whether an American is for large or small gov-
ernment, you would be hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd someone who wants nothing to be accomplished. 
Certainly Tea-Party types would disagree 
with this notion, but it’s doubtful the majority of 
Americans hold the same views as the Tea Party. 
However, enough so-called conservatives sub-scribe to this nihilistic view of government and American society. We can’t fund our infrastruc-
ture or even keep the lights on with the pervasive 
anarchism pursued by some elected ofﬁ  cials. 
The idea of serving your community, state or 
country requires that you actually serve. Asking 
constituents which laws to repeal is not service: 
It’s lazily fulﬁ  lling ideological views that serve 
no one but the holder of those views.
If selﬁ  shness is the goal of an elected ofﬁ  cial, 
he or she best step aside for someone who in-
tends to actually serve the community, even if 
that means jumping off the cliff of compromising 
strictly-held ideology.
Republicans seek to prove they can govern in 
the new Congress. For the sake of our country’s 
future, I hope they succeed.
Joel Mendelson is a UF political campaigning 
graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.Elected ofﬁ  cials 
need to actually do their jobsColumn
I’ll start off this column with an apology.
The wunderkind University of Oregon Ducks are 
sailing on to the College Football Playoff National 
Championship on Monday after a gruesome and complete-
ly satisfying defeat of the reigning Florida State University 
Seminoles on Jan. 1 in the ﬁ  rst-ever college football playoff. 
After I witnessed this 59-20 demolition of the Seminoles’ dreams of a repeat national championship, I was a jerk on Facebook. Beyond taunting a poor athletic performance, I insulted FSU students and their alma mater. It wasn’t a cool move, and I’m sorry.
My unabashed content for a sorely desired FSU defeat 
doesn’t lie in the rivalry between UF and FSU. It doesn’t even stem from jealousy of a stunning 29-1 record. 
It lies in my newfound disgust in the FSU football pro-
gram and school administration’s handling of famed quar-terback Jameis Winston.
For background, I was born to an avid FSU fan: my fa-
ther, an alumnus of the business school. Like, my dad had legendary FSU coach Bobby Bowden sign my ﬁ  rst birth-day card ever, a note dated April 29, 1993, the day after my birth, which is now framed and on display in my bed-room at home: “To Colleen, Happy 1st Day! Love, Bobby 
Bowden.”
My dad taught me the tomahawk chop around the time 
I learned how to walk. He outﬁ  tted toddler me in an FSU 
cheerleading costume. My dad even refused to sign the residency form when I committed treason and decided to accept my admission to UF for its stellar journalism school (which FSU does not have) until my mom (an alumna of Florida International University) threatened to send me to school out of state where college costs would be tenfold.
Heck, I’m the girl who wrote last semester’s Alligator 
editorial of UF standing with FSU in the wake of the FSU library shooting. You get the picture.
While the Heisman trophy winner has just announced 
that he will declare for the 2015 NFL draft, Winston can still create mischief between today and April 30. He may think he’s ready for professional football, but his maturity ain’t.
He has been an ongoing public relations nightmare in 
Tallahassee throughout his student career. A lackadaisical 
investigation by Tallahassee Police into a student’s claim 
ﬁ  led December 2012 that Winston sexually assaulted her resulted in a failure to charge Winston after the State At-torney found insufﬁ  cient evidence to criminally charge him — conveniently before the ‘Noles were crowned national champions in January 2014. Winston was recently cleared of FSU student conduct violations, and his accuser ﬁ  red back with a lawsuit ﬁ  led against FSU on Wednesday.
In that two-year span, Winston suffered no suspension 
connected to the allegation.
On the lighter, dumber side of things, Winston was 
caught pilfering crab legs from a Tallahassee Publix in April after he “forgot” to pay. He was cited — not arrested — and suspended from the baseball team (thank God it was base-ball season, FSU thought) for four days after completing 20 hours of community service.Then in September, Winston actually stood up in the 
FSU student union and yelled “F*** her right in the p****”— before being cleared from student conduct violations for his alleged rape. For that, he was given ﬁ  rst a half-game sus-pension as punishment before — gasp! — he was slapped 
with a suspension for a whole whopping football game in a 
conference game against Clemson.
Here’s my beef: Why is he still a student attending FSU?Gators, we’ve had our fair share of unruly, entitled foot-
ball players. Since I enrolled at UF in January 2012, I’ve read and helped produce numerous stories of players’ arrests.
Let’s compare apples to apples. Quarterback to quarter-
back. Winston vs. Treon Harris.
No, athletically they are nowhere near the same. There’s 
a reason Harris was our No. 3 guy, but he’s all we’ve got.
Harris was accused of sexually assaulting another stu-
dent in October right after UF had a serial sexual predator on the loose. Personally, I was angry and wanted him to be prosecuted to the fullest.
Within 24 hours after allegations against Harris surfaced, 
he was suspended indeﬁ  nitely and banned from campus. The guy couldn’t even go to his room in Springs Residence Hall for a change of clothing.
Four days later, the complaint was dropped and Har-
ris was reinstated on the team. And a few weeks later, the whole report was released by University Police. 
That’s what I call real discipline by University Police, 
then-coach Will Muschamp and UF.
That’s the difference between FSU and UF. We do not 
have more moral or holier-than-thou students. The differ-ence is how UF deals with the miscreants — and how we have no problem leaving them in the past.
So no, I don’t have any qualms over severing my loy-
alty with FSU. I cannot support an organization that did its utmost to keep a jersey on Winston, despite his obvious disrespect for his teammates and his school.
And I’ve lost all respect for the school I was born to love. FSU students are appalled at how the whole country 
wants to see them fail, reducing them to “haters.” Hey Sem-inoles: They’re not haters. They don’t give a damn about your record. They’re rational human beings who know a 
poor judgment call — or three — when they see one.
Tebow failed in the pros, but he’s a virtuous man. And 
I’m terribly proud he’s the face of our university. I’ll take 
humility over controversy any day.
On Monday, with pep in my step, I’ll be hopping onto 
the Ducks bandwagon to cheer for Oregon once more. Be-cause while they defeated FSU fair and square, they also brought victory to those who believe Winston got away with way too much. They put an unbelievable season to 
rest for a team that not only kept Winston as the face of 
their university, but defended him throughout shameful controversy.
Oregon: Show no mercy to the Ohio State University 
Buckeyes, because Urban Meyer sucks.
Colleen Wright is a UF journalism senior and a former man-
aging editor of the Alligator.Why Oregon Ducks are America’s teamGuest column
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Taylor Affleck, a 25-year-old Jimmy John’s employee, passes West University Avenue and Buckman 
Drive in October 2012 while delivering a sandwich to a customer.
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — The woman 
who accused Florida State Univer-
sity quarterback Jameis Winston of sexual assault is suing the school’s Board of Trustees.
The lawsuit was filed Wednes-
day in federal court in Orlando. It requests a jury trial on claims the board had an unreasonable re-sponse to her accusations and cre-ated a hostile educational environ-ment for her.
Also Wednesday, Winston de-
clared his intention to enter the 
NFL draft.
At a student code of conduct 
hearing last month, Winston was 
cleared of charges that he violated any or all of four sections of the code of conduct — two for sexual misconduct and two for endanger-ment. A criminal investigation con-cluded last year without charges being filed.
The lawsuit seeks unspecified 
damages from the university to be established at trial.
___Answers to questions about the 
lawsuit:
Q. WHAT MUST SHE PROVE?The woman must show that FSU 
did not follow its own guidelines and promptly alert its Title IX coor-dinator of a possible violation.
FSU previously said the only au-
thorities aware of the incident be-fore January 2013 were Tallahassee police, campus police and the Vic-tim Advocate Program. The univer-sity said its Title IX officials didn’t become aware of the incident until November 2013, when contacted by the Tallahassee Police Department and that the woman was not made 
available for an interview with the 
school until Aug. 6. 
The woman’s lawyers have maintained that she was willing to talk throughout the process.
The university said because the 
Victim Advocate Program contin-
ued to have “confidential interac-
tions” with the woman for months, it was “duty-bound not to share any of the information with FSU Title IX officials.”
Department of Education guide-
lines state that a university must conduct an investigation once it learns of an incident regardless of 
whether a complaint is filed and 
“a law enforcement investigation does not relieve the school of its independent Title IX obligation to investigate the conduct.”
Q. WHY WAS IT FILED TO A 
FEDERAL COURT IN ORLAN-DO?
The suit was filed to federal 
court because it deals with a pos-sible Title IX violation, which is a federal amendment. The filing claims Orlando is the proper venue because she cannot receive a fair and impartial trial by jury “in any other judicial district in which ven-
ue would be proper.” Tallahassee 
does have a federal court.
“(FSU) can request a venue 
transfer,” said Tampa-based attor-ney Kristin Melton, who has expe-rience in NCAA legal cases. “The incidents occurred in Tallahassee. The strong argument would be that it should have been filed in Tal-
lahassee. That would be my posi-
tion if I was FSU, and I would try to get it transferred to Tallahassee. It would really be her burden of showing that she couldn’t get a fair and impartial hearing in Tallahas-see.”
Q. WHAT DOES FSU FACE IF 
FOUND AT FAULT?
The lawsuit seeks “damages in 
amounts to be established at trial, including ... reimbursement and prepayment for all of (the woman’s) tuition and related expenses; ... ex-penses incurred as consequence of the sexual assault; damages for de-
privation of equal access to the edu-
cational benefits and opportunities provided by FSU; and damages for past, present and future emotional pain and suffering, ongoing and severe mental anguish, loss of past, present and future enjoyment of life, and past and present lost earn-ings and earning capacity.”
There is no cap on damages in 
federal court.
Q. WHEN SHOULD A RUL-
ING BE EXPECTED?
The case could last more than 
a year depending on the court’s schedule, evidence gathering, mo-tions filed and other trial specifics.
Q. WHAT ABOUT WINSTON?
The woman can still file civil 
charges against Winston.
FSU faces lawsuit from Winston sexual assault accuser  CONSUMER CONFIDENCE IS AT HIGHEST SINCE 2007.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
While students might be worrying about loans and financial 
aid, consumers in Florida aren’t that stressed about their wallets.
A UF survey completed in December showed Florida consum-
ers had more hope in the economy last month than in any other 
since the recession ended, which may lead to an increase in jobs.
The UF Survey Research Center conducts the survey every 
month, and December’s score of 87.4 was the highest since 2007.
“The idea is that this is supposed to measure consumer opti-
mism,” said Chris McCarty, director of the research center and UF’s Bureau of Economic and Business Research.
About 500 households were asked a series of questions relating 
to their personal finances, as well as their opinions on the current and future national economy.
The score is based on a formula derived from the responses. 
If the score is less than 100, consumers are less confident in the economy then they were in 1966, a historically productive year. If it is over 100, consumers are more confident.
“So historically that’s not a fantastic reading,” McCarty said. 
“But it turns out that is the highest it’s been since the recession ended.”
The highest Florida has ever scored was 111 back in the late ‘90s 
or early ‘00s, he said.
But these results showed a better job market than Florida has 
seen since the recession, McCarty said. And it could mean good things for students looking to join the world of retail and entry-level positions.
“Normally, higher consumer confidence would translate into 
retailers doing better and then retailers hiring more,” he said. 
However, retail doesn’t appeal to all after graduation.UF biology sophomore Cheyenna Espinoza said while any jobs 
are good for those looking to make an income, a job in retail is not for her. 
“We need more manufacturing and higher-order jobs like doc-
tors and engineers, even like teaching,” said Espinoza, 19, who currently works as a waitress at Cracker Barrel. “I’m here trying 
to succeed so I don’t have to (be a waitress) for the rest of my life.”
Consumers also have the benefit of falling oil prices. 
“The price of a barrel of oil, internationally, has fallen like a 
rock,” McCarty said.
The international price of a barrel of oil, which has been as ex-
pensive as $90 in the past, is currently sitting at about $49, he said. 
This has led to the lowest gas prices since many current college 
students started driving. 
“We haven’t gotten back to where we were, and we won’t for 
a while,” he said. “But things have been improving considerably.”UF survey: Economy 
doesn’t stress FloridaLOCAL
CARLA VIANNA 
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Jimmy John’s opened its third Gainesville loca-
tion in December, and it’s freaky-fast business as 
always.
The new location, located at 4123 NW 16th Blvd., 
sports a more modern look than the other two shops in town, owner Ramsey Roe said. 
The quick-service sub shop began catering to lo-
cal businesses and surrounding neighborhoods in the area Dec. 9, he said.
Roe also owns the other two locations at 2220 SW 
Archer Road and 1724 W. University Ave. 
He said he loves Gainesville and will further 
expand the franchise if the opportunity presents itself.
“We’ve been here for a while, and there’s room 
to grow in Gainesville,” Roe said. “Sales are strong, and we are happy.”
John Burks, a 22-year-old civil engineering se-
nior, said he orders Jimmy John’s once a week — unless it’s exam time, when it jumps up to three times a week.
“The fact that we can get it under five minutes 
is ridiculous,” Burks said. “Besides the speed, I like the options you can get.”
He orders from the West University Avenue lo-
cation, but said he would order from the new one if 
it arrived just as fast.
“It’s extremely convenient,” Burks said. “It’s one 
of the first options people think about.”Jimmy John’s debuts new restaurantFRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Listening to the Choir
The Open Door Ministries Choir performs at the first choral fundraiser for the ACTION Network on Thurs-
day night at the United Church of Gainesville. The Affiliated Congregations To Improve Our Neighbor -
hoods Network works to promote community good and was raising funds to deal with income disparity.
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — The 
White House on Thursday 
announced a proposal that 
President Barack Obama said 
would make community col-lege “free for everybody who is willing to work for it.” But 
administration officials pro-
vided no details about the program’s costs or where the money would come from to 
pay for it.
Obama planned to formally 
announce the plan Friday at 
Pellissippi State Community College in Knoxville, Ten-nessee. He gave a preview in 
a videotaped message shot 
aboard Air Force One and posted on Facebook.
“It’s not just for kids,” 
Obama said. “We also have to make sure that everybody has the opportunity to constantly train themselves for better jobs, better wages, better benefits.”
Obama provided few spe-
cifics, and White House and Education Department offi-cials said on a conference call 
Thursday that the funding de-tails would come out later with 
the president’s budget.
The White House did say 
if all states participated, nine million students could ben-efit, saving on average $3,800 in tuition per year for a full-time student. That means the 
program could cost billions of 
dollars. In a Republican-led Congress, the proposal likely faces a tough legislative fight 
to be passed.
“With no details or infor-
mation on the cost, this seems 
more like a talking point than a plan,” said Cory Fritz, press 
secretary for House Speaker 
John Boehner, R-Ohio.
Under the proposal, par-
ticipating students would be 
expected to maintain a modest 
grade point average, and par-ticipating schools would have to meet certain academic re-quirements. States would opt 
in to the program and put up a 
fraction of the funding.
“Put simply, what I’d like to 
do is to see the first two years 
of community college free for 
everybody who is willing to work for it,” the president said.
David Baime, vice presi-
dent for government relations 
at the American Association of 
Community Colleges, called the plan an “extraordinary” in-vestment. He said the essence 
of the proposal is to reduce the 
cost of attending community college and “that is a concept that we heartily endorse.”Obama proposes free 
community college program to someTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HARTFORD, Conn. — A 
17-year-old girl being forced by state 
officials to undergo chemotherapy for her cancer said Thursday she un-derstands she’ll die if she stops treat-
ment, but it should be her decision.
The state Supreme Court ruled 
earlier in the day state officials aren’t 
violating the rights of the girl, Cas-sandra C., who has Hodgkin’s lym-phoma.
Cassandra told The Associated 
Press in an exclusive text interview from her hospital it disgusts her to 
have “such toxic harmful drugs” in 
her body and she’d like to explore alternative treatments. She said she understands “death is the outcome of refusing chemo” but believes in “the quality of my life, not the quan-tity.”
“Being forced into the surgery 
and chemo has traumatized me,” 
Cassandra wrote. “I do believe I am 
mature enough to make the decision to refuse the chemo, but it shouldn’t be about maturity, it should be a giv-en human right to decide what you want and don’t want for your own body.”
The court ruled Cassandra’s law-
yers had the opportunity to prove 
she’s mature enough to make that 
decision during a juvenile court hearing in December and failed to do so.
Cassandra will be free to make 
her own medical decisions when she turns 18 in September. She, along with her mother, had fought against the six-month course of che-motherapy.
The case centered on whether 
the girl is mature enough to deter-mine how to treat her Hodgkin’s lymphoma, with which she was di-agnosed in September. Several other states recognize the mature minor doctrine.
Cassandra was allowed to go 
home to undergo treatment in No-vember but ran away for a week, ac-
cording to court documents.
“Cassandra either intentionally 
misrepresented her intentions to the 
trial court, or she changed her mind on this issue of life and death,” Chief Justice Chase Rogers said.
Girl undergoes chemo against will
“With no details or 
information on the cost, 
this seems more like 
a talking point than a 
plan.”
Cory Fritz
Press secretary for House 
Speaker John Boehner
Stuff To Do This Weekend
Friday Saturday Sunday
What: A celebration of Roy Craven, 
the man who founded the gal-
lery, which showcases art piec-es obtained over the course of two decades.
When:  10 a.m. with a reception 
from 7 to 9 p.m.
Where: University of Florida’s Uni-
versity Gallery
Price: Event and reception are free
What: A showing of “Force Ma-
jeure,” a Cannes Film Festival-
winning psychodrama about a disastrous family ski trip in Sweden.
When:  12:15 p.m.
Where: The Hippodrome State The-
atre
Price: $5.50 - $7.50What: Local artist Jenna Weston’s 
exhibition featuring her mul -
timedia pieces that integrate nature and handmade paper.
When:  7 p.m.
Where: The Hippodrome State The-
atre
Price: Free
What: Winner of the 2013 Tony 
Award for Best Play, and called 
“Deliriously funny” by the New York Times, VANYA AND SONIA AND MASHA AND SPIKE is an exploration of family dynamics and sibling rivalry.
When:  8:00 p.m.
Where: The Hippodrome State The-
atre
Price: $15 - $35What: The 36th celebration 
of collectors and collec -
tions, including treasures ranging from Titanic and Beatles memorabilia to classic cars.
When:  10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Where: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History
Price: Free
What: Zero Motivation, winner 
of the Best Narrative Fea -
ture Award at the Tribeca 
Film Festival, is a portrait of everyday life for a unit of young, female soldiers in a remote Israeli desert outpost.
When:  5:30 p.m.Where: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre
Price: $5.50 - $7.50
What: Winner of the UF Per -
forming Arts prize, sopra -
no Julia Bullock, known for her performances as Pamina in Peter Brook’s “A Magic Flute” and the title role in Massenet’s “Cen -
drillon” with the Juilliard Opera, will perform.
When: 7:30 p.m. 
Where: University AuditoriumPrice: $10 - $35UF Students - $10; Balcony 
- $20; Orchestra Q-CC - $30; Orchestra A-P and Mezzanine - $35What: The Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra, 
led by conductor Steven Smith — music director of the Grammy-winning Cleveland Chamber Symphony and Ohio’s Compos-er of the Year in 2008 — and Venezuelan pianist Gabriela Martinez, will perform.
When:  2 p.m.
Where: UF Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts
Price: UF Students - $10; Balcony - $20; Or -
chestra Q-Z - $30; Orchestra A-P and Mez-zanine - $40
What: Author Sandra Gail Lambert will speak 
about the process of writing her novel, “The River’s Memory,” a story based on the natural world of north central Florida.
When:  2:30 p.m. 
Where: Millhopper Branch LibraryPrice: FreeFRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-16-14-9-25BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short walk to bus stop, large yard for fun/garden, fireplace, DW, game room, cent heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text/call 352-339-2342 GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com   1-16-14-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Within 1 1/2 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly car-peted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest contrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $680/mo. Call 727-423-9463    1-9-15-3-2
One bedroom, one bath for rent in
2 bedroom town house at Mill Pond 
with pool and tennis court, across from 
Gainesville health and fitness on Newberry 
Road, near the Oaks Mall.
Prefer UF male student.
$650/month, utilities included in rent.
Call 813-650-3218
1-9-15-3-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Available Aug 1st 3BR/2BA nice house, 1 blk from campus. W/D provided, hardwood floors & tile, dishwasher, central H/A, etc. 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo. Text/call 352-339-2342. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  $8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-9-14-11-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-13-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description.E-mail resume and day/year-round avail -
ability to info@thornebrookchocolates.com.    1-13-15-5-14
Sun Country Sports is accepting
applications for all depts., incl. rock-climbing, 
swim, summer camp, parties, gymnastics,
cleaning & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
1-13-15-5-14
Homework coach wanted for 7th grade boy with Aspergers. Tues, and Thurs, 3:30-5:30 preferred, Pick up from school or bus, home-work at library, drop off at home. $10/hour. E-mail qualifications to:ceramix@cerazone.net    1-12-15-4-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"EXTENDED DAY
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM 
IS NOW HIRING
ALACHUA COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
****ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES/ SPORTS - $10//hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
****CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS - $10/hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
Hours required - M,T, Th, F - 12:45-5:30PM
Wed. 12:30-5:30PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
For more information call : 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
1-14-15-6-14
Mechanical and Electrical Engineer Needed. Graduate student or senior preferred. Part time, flexible hours. Project list, NDA req, resume/CV, copy of DL, recommendations. $25-$30/hr. Call 850-508-9601, Dr Jones.    1-12-15-3-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Training! 3 Week Program. Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators.  Lifetime Job Placement Assistance with National Certifications.  VA Benefits Eligible! (866) 912-0572    1-9-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Home most weekends. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    1-9-1-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    1-9-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend. Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – 
Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    1-9-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679   1-9-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, NASA and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    1-9-1-15
MEDICAL BILLING TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a Medical Office Assistant! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! Online training can get you job ready! HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! 1-888-528-5547    1-9-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    1-9-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poole lands on All-Bowl Team
UF cornerback Brian Poole was named to the AP All-Bowl Team on 
Thursday. Poole returned an interception for a touchdown and recovered a fumble in UF's 28-20 win in the Birmingham Bowl against East Carolina.Gators in the NFL Playoffs
Ten former Florida football players are on teams that reached the Divisional round of the NFL Playoffs, which begin Saturday.Rhonda Faehn is preparing for the unknown as the UF gymnastic season begins. See the story on Page 14.Morgan Moriarty / Alligator Staff
Randy Shannon speaks during a media availability on Thursday. Shannon joined Florida football's staff on Monday as the assistant head coach, co-defensive coordinator and linebackers coach.
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan_Moriarty
On a cold Thursday morning in Gainesville, new as-
sociate head coach and co-defensive coordinator Randy 
Shannon met with reporters wearing a windbreaker sporting a Gator head logo on it. 
The sight of Shannon — a longtime Miami Hurricane 
— wearing Gator gear may take some getting used to.
Shannon, 48, played football for the Hurricanes 
where he started on the 1987 National Title-winning team, and he was on the coaching staff for the Canes’ fourth National Championship in 1991.
He returned to the UM staff following a three-year 
stint with the Miami Dolphins to become the defensive coordinator during the Hurricanes' 2001 national title season. He assumed the head coaching role from 2007-
2010, where he acquired a 28-22 record. 
But despite his extensive tenure with Miami, Shan-
non said the Miami fan base has not reacted negatively 
to his decision to join the UF coaching staff.
“No that’s been a long time because of the rivalry 
back in the days, but right now, no,” Shannon said. “It’s been pretty good, been pretty fun, been excited. Across the United States, I have a lot I know, from California all up in New York. They’re excited about the opportunity 
for me to come here.” 
New UF head coach Jim McElwain has been im-
pressed by Shannon, and while Shannon’s job title of 
associate head coach, co-defensive coordinator and line-backers coach is a long one, McElwain said he does not dive too deep into them.
“You’re a ball coach,” McElwain said. “Your title is 
you’re invested in young men. Your title is it’s about how we can help them be better for the rest of their lives. ... He’s obviously the whatever associate, assistant head coach or whatever the word is, would somebody help me on that? Chief bottle washer? I don’t know. In charge 
of tackling. There’s a reason for that.”
Shannon followed his time at Miami as the lineback-
ers coach at TCU in 2012 and spent the last two seasons Randy Shannon eager for fresh start coaching UF football team 
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
Geoff Collins is a psycho — or at 
least, that’s the name given to his 
brand of aggressive defense. “The psycho defense” is ready to be in-
stalled as Collins and the rest of the 
Gators staff officially took over with a team meeting Monday night and the defensive assistant coaches met with the media Thursday.
Collins and former UF head 
coach Will Muschamp both learned under Alabama coach Nick Saban, and while the terminology in their defenses is different, the main prin-ciples stay the same. 
Collins lucks out. He wants to fit 
his system around his players and his 
system already fits his players.
“Whatever the players can do, 
that’s what you want to do. If you’ve 
got a lot of man 
corners, play man. If you’ve got some long, athletic outside 
linebackers, then you play an odd 
front,” Collins said. “So it just de-
pends on as we go through what we have on the roster, which we’ve been Notebook: Collins prepping 
Florida's 'psycho' defenseWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
 The slow starts haven’t improved, and 
Florida is seemingly still figuring out what 
lineup can keep the team competitive in the 
opening minutes.
In a contest that saw the Gators women’s 
basketball team come out flat and lackadai-
sical with the basketball, Florida fell to Ole 
Miss at home 64-57 after being run out of 
the gym in the opening minutes.
A day removed from stressing the im-
portance of each Southeastern Conference game, the Gators came out sluggish against 
Ole Miss, with the team lacking the sense 
of urgency that is critical in claiming a lead within the opening minutes. 
The Rebels opened the game on a 18-2 run in the opening eight minutes, and Flor-ida spent the rest of the game attempting to 
claw back, albeit unsuccessfully in the end. 
After trailing by as many as 22, Florida 
went on a 23-5 run to cut the lead to 60-57 
with 1:17 left to play, but the Rebels sealed the game at the free throw line to stop the 
Gators from completing the comeback. 
A stifling Ole Miss (12-4, 2-1 SEC) de-
fense forced the Gators into 23 turnovers, 
with 15 coming in the first half. Florida (9-
7, 1-2 SEC) had a rough night shooting the 
basketball, with guards Cassie Peoples and Carlie Needles unable to create any space and get open shots for the team.
Neither team could get anything going 
from behind the three-point line, with the Early slump costs Florida in 
SEC home loss to Ole Miss
SEE NOTEBOOK, PAGE 15
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15SEE SHANNON, PAGE 15
UF Fo otball14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
KYLE BRUTMAN         
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
 The top-ranked Gators open their 
2015 indoor track and field season to-
day at the UAB Blazer Invitational in Birmingham, Alabama.
The two-day meet, which will take 
place at the Birmingham Crossplex Arena, features 27 teams, including Kennesaw State, whose men’s team is ranked 16th in the country.
Florida will solely feature par-
ticipants in the men’s and women’s 60-meter hurdles and 60-meter dash.
Two of the four Gators competing 
in the men’s hurdles are freshmen —Jabari Hill, and Caleb Chambliss.
Junior Moriel Pitt and sophomore 
Yanick Hart rounding out the men’s lineup.
Hurdlers Ryann McEnany, Tyjah 
Eady, Bridgette Owens and Ashley Favors will participate in the women’s hurdles for the Gators.
Owens, who is entering her final 
collegiate season, set the meet record for the 60 hurdles at last year’s UAB Blazer Invitational, as she finished the hurdle in 8.20 seconds. 
Her performance also placed sec-
ond on Florida’s indoor list for fastest time in program history.
The men’s 60 dash will include Ty-
ler Osorio, freshman Damien Daniels and Antwan Wright.
Junior runner Shayla Sanders has 
expressed some high praise in Daniels’ direction.
“He’s different. He has this good 
mentality and good work ethic,” Sand-ers said. “He’s going to be an eye opener to people because not many people know him.”
Wright is coming off a successful 
year in the 60 dash, as he came less than one-tenth of a second away from breaking Jeff Demps’ school record for the event. 
He said he hopes to shed some 
seconds this year and is even setting a goal for himself to become an All-Southeastern Conference First-Team runner, but he is not focused on chas-ing Demps’ mark.
The lone Gator racing in the 60 dash 
will be Sanders, who broke Lakecia Ealey’s program record at the NCAA Indoor Championships in March. Sanders said that she is coming out of the offseason as a better runner, and even praised the fact that she did not get sick once during offseason train-ing.
The Gators will be traveling with-
out senior sprinter Dedric Dukes and senior jumper Marquis Dendy, both of whom were named to the men’s Bow-erman Trophy Preseason Watch List, which was announced on Wednesday. 
Senior thrower Fawn Miller, who 
received votes for the women’s Bow-erman Trophy Preseason Watch List which was released on Thursday, will also stay in Gainesville for the meet. 
Coach Mike Holloway said that his 
team is pumped up and ready to com-mence the new season.
“We’re ready to start racing differ-
ent schools with people that have oth-er uniforms on,” Holloway said.Track and field debuts todayMegan Reeves / Alligator
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 65-63 loss to Florida State on Dec. 30 in Tallahassee. Florida won its Southeastern Conference opener against South Carolina 72-68 on Wednesday.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
 Billy Donovan and the Florida 
men’s basketball team returned to 
Gainesville from Columbia, South Carolina, with what he considers their best win of the season so far. 
Fourteen games into the 2014-
2015 season, Donovan is finally seeing his Gators (8-6, 1-0 South-eastern Conference) show up to the second half of their games and come 
through with clutch rebounds and 
free throws needed to win.
“Coach talked 
to us after the 
game about this game and he thought it was our best game of the year, basical-ly,” junior guard 
Michael Frazier 
II said.
Frazier said Donovan told the 
team it was the first time they had 
actually fought when their oppo-nent attempted to make runs in the second half.
“When you’re playing well it’s so 
easy to stay engaged in the game,” 
Donovan said in a post-game press 
conference. “To me, the true sign of a great competitor and a great team-mate and a great player is how do you handle when it’s not going well for you.”
Florida managed a few statisti-cal wins against South Carolina. Besides the 72-68 victory, the Gators outrebounded (37-23), converted a greater number of free throws (25-23) and had more steals (7-4) than the Gamecocks. 
“We did a good job moving the 
ball when they were trying to deny us,” Frazier said. “Mostly we were able to move the ball around and kind of get in the lane, you know, to kick out shots where we were wide open and I was the beneficiary to some of them.”
As for the two Gators who 
weren’t a part of Wednesday’s win, Donovan said senior center Jon Hor-ford and walk-on freshman guard Zach Hodskins’ suspensions were his decision alone.
“I thought their attitude and 
behavior was detrimental to our team,” Donovan said. “There’s a cer-tain standard and culture you want 
to create inside your program and 
when guys aren’t living up to that standard and culture, sometimes as a coach you get forced and put into a tough situation to make those kinds of decisions.”
Donovan said he left them with 
a few tasks to complete while the team was away that he planned on 
checking the status of upon his re-
turn to Gainesville. He didn’t rule out the possibility of both returning to practice on Thursday and playing in Saturday’s home game against Mississippi State (7-7, 0-1 SEC).Donovan impressed with Florida’s showing in SEC opener
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
The wait is almost over.
It has been 265 days since the UF gymnas-
tics team won a share of its second-straight national title, and on Sunday, the group re-turns to action to begin it’s 2015 campaign.
But coach Rhonda Faehn does not expect 
the Gators to pick up right where they left off last April.
“It’s a completely different team,” Faehn 
said. “This first competition ... there’s al-ways a question mark. You don’t know how the new athletes will perform, and different lineups and different routines, so our goal going in is always just to go out and com-pete aggressively, and also to be safe with the new things that we’re putting out there and just to go out and use it as a starting point.”
That starting point will be in Muncie, In-
diana, where No. 1 Florida travels to take on Ball State, a team that went 2-13 last season and finished fifth out of seven teams in the Mid-American Conference Championship.
For the four Florida freshmen, this meet 
will mark their first time competing colle-giately, and Faehn said she expects all but Grace McLaughlin to compete this weekend.
Junior Bridget Sloan said the experience 
will be eye-opening for them — as it was for her during her first season as a Gator.
“I think that it always takes one meet,” Sloan said. “Once the first meet gets under their belt, I think that they will be able to 
look back and be like ‘Oh, I understand 
now.’”
The meet will be the first and last non-
conference meet until Florida faces Oklaho-
ma on the road in early March.
It will also be the only time during the 
regular season when Florida will not com-
pete on a Friday night, something that may disrupt some usual Sunday plans.
“Sunday is a day of rest - this is when I 
lay in bed and sleep,” Sloan said jokingly. 
“I think us competing on a Sunday, you 
know, it is what it is, but I think the craziest thing is it’s a Sunday and we compete again — our first home opener is on a Friday, so 
that’ll be a little different, it’ll be a quick 
turnaround.”
Sloan said she has extra reason to be ex-
cited for the meet because she is from Indi-
ana and will have a large number of family 
members in attendance.
Senior Kytra Hunter said she can’t wait to 
get this first competition started so she and 
her teammates can shake the rust off and get all the bad routines out of their systems.
“The first meet, my expectation - not just 
for me but for the team - is to go out there, like I said have fun, get everything out, and that’s what we need to do because it’s al-ways that one meet you need to get every-
thing out,” she said.UF gymnastics preparing for 
unknown in season openerFrazier
Rebels using solid ball move-
ment and penetrating passes to hand Florida its third loss in five 
games.
Coach Amanda Butler spoke 
of the importance in defending 
the post against the Rebels, who 
scored just 20 points in the paint 
against the Gators, despite anoth-er strong performance from se-nior Tia Faleru. Ole Miss won the rebounding battle against Florida 
48-35, with the Rebels grabbing 
18 boards on the offensive end. 
“The story of the game ulti-
mately was rebounding, but I’m 
really proud of the fight amidst 
nothing going our way,” Butler said. “I think that’s the heart of this team, and I think that’s what we’ll continue to see.”
Ronni Williams had 15 points 
for Florida, a strong performance for a player who has been slow to regain her form from a high ankle sprain suffered early in the sea-
son against St. John’s.
Butler was visibly upset with 
multiple calls in the game, as the 
Gators shot just 13 free throws 
compared to the Rebels’ 38. 
“Well, that’s a lot of points, a 
lot of opportunities they got from 
the free-throw line,” Butler said. “We just didn’t put ourselves in the same position to score from 
the line like they did."
Kayla Lewis finished with 
13 points and 10 rebounds, al-
though it was apparent after the game that the redshirt senior was 
far from satisfied with the per-
formance of the team in the first half. 
“It’s a lack of composure and 
poise in the beginning of the game that lead to their scores,” Lewis said. “They weren’t run-ning any offense that we couldn’t guard, it was us shooting our-
selves in the foot.”
Defending the perimeter has 
been a weakness of late for the 
Gators, with the team losing close 
games to Eastern Washington 
and LSU that can be attributed to an inability to close out on shoot-ers. 
Florida may have suffered 
more than just a loss in the game, as the team lost Antoinette Ban-nister to an apparent ankle injury in the first half and later lost Nee-
dles after she appeared to take a 
hit to the mouth and was helped off the court near the start of the second half. 
at Arkansas. 
One year following Shan-
non’s tenure of head coach, 
UM booster Nevin Shapiro in-formed the NCAA that he gave 
gifts and cash to UM players 
and coaches throughout his time connected with the pro-gram, dating all the way back to 2002 up until 2010, which included when Shannon was a head coach. 
Although Shannon wasn’t 
directly connected, the inves-
tigations prompted a self-im-
posed bowl ban in 2011 and 2012, including suspensions for UM athletes for receiving impermissible benefits from Shapiro. 
As head coach, there were 
multiple reports that surfaced saying Shannon told players 
and coaches to stay away from 
Shapiro. Shannon, when asked about Shapiro and his years as a head coach at Miami, said there is little point of looking back at the things that have al-ready occurred. 
“Don’t let something that 
happened 10 seconds ago 
screw up something you have 
ahead of you,” Shannon said. “When you keep looking back in life, you’re going to miss out on a lot of opportunities.”
Shannon had no problem 
making the jump to Florida when he was called for the job. Despite the program going 
29-21 in the last four seasons, 
Shannon said Florida remains one of the top programs in the country at the end of the day and credits athletics director Jeremy Foley for having suc-cess in most of the sports out-side of football.
“Being at Florida, fellas, 
there’s a lot of programs in the country, but there’s only a few programs in the country like Florida,” Shannon said. “Just being honest with you.”
Despite Shannon’s poor record as a head coach, his defensive resume personnel-wise is quite impressive. As a head coach and defensive coordinator, he’s coached 14 
defensive players who were se-
lected in the first round of the NFL Draft. He’s also coached current and future NFL Hall of Famers including Warren Sapp, Ray Lewis and Ed Reed. He coached the late legendary safety Sean Taylor. 
Shannon says it is a luxury 
to come into Florida, which ranked no lower than 15th na-tionally in total defense during Will Muschamp’s four-year tenure.
“We’ve got to build on what 
we think is best for us as a coaching staff and what we’re trying to get done as a staff,” 
Shannon said. “We don’t try to 
compete and compare, we just want to get better. Everything you do in life, you can never stay the same.”
With Shannon’s connections 
to South Florida, many believe he will be an asset to recruit that talent-rich part of the state well. 
But Shannon wants to re-
mind people that he can recruit more than just South Florida. 
“People keep forgetting that 
I recruited a lot of guys from California when I was at the University of Miami, a lot of guys from Louisiana, a lot of guys from New York,” Shan-
non said. “So I’ve been more 
versatile than recruiting just South Florida.”
Shannon may always be re-
membered as a University of Miami product, but for him, it’s time for a new chapter at Florida.
“This is University of Flori-
da,” Shannon said. “I’m happy and excited about the Univer-sity of Florida. Whatever hap-pened in my past, fellas, I can’t bring up the past. The past is past.”FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams prepares to shoot during Florida's win against Stetson on Dec. 14 in the O'Connell 
Center. Williams scored a team-high 15 points in UF's loss to Ole Miss on Thursday.
Ronni Williams scored 15 in loss
W-HOOPS , from page 13
SHANNON , from page 13He has coach 14 first 
round draft picks
Collins, Williams, Callahan embracing opportunity to coach at UF
able to see a little bit of it, and then what 
we’re able to sign in this class to really help fill some holes early for next season.”
His end at Mississippi State was uncer-
emonious at best. His former boss, Dan Mullen, gave a backhanded insult to him 
on his way out of Starkville, but when 
asked about it Thursday, Collins was nothing but cordial.
“I’m just excited to be a Florida Gator,” 
Collins said. “I’m excited. It’s a great place to be. You get to coach these kids and work with Coach Mac and Coach Shannon, Wil-liams, Callahan. It doesn’t get better than that.”Williams welcomes college challeng-
es: Florida’s defensive line coach Terrell Williams dabbled in the NFL for three sea-sons with the Oakland Raiders, but he’s back where he cut his teeth in the first 13 years of coaching — college football. 
While the NFL is non-stop football, 
college allows time for more relationship building primarily done during recruiting.
“You either can do it or you can’t. I was 
telling my wife when I got here on Mon-day, ‘I said I felt like I’ve got life back in me now,’” Williams said. “I’m recruiting, calling parents – well, not calling parents – but I’m calling coaches and dealing with 
that. Recruiting is something that you ei-
ther like it or you don’t.” 
Williams is passionate about what he’s doing, calling being Flor-ida’s defensive line coach the “best job in college football,” and even said it was better than some NFL jobs, presumably 
even his former one.
Callahan comes back 
to Gainesville: For two 
years, UF defensive backs coach Kirk Cal-
lahan learned the tools of the trade as a defensive graduate assistant in 2010 and 2011. 
He then left for his alma mater UCF to 
coach defensive backs before returning to 
UF.
“It’s great, a great opportunity, I obvi-
ously love this school it was a part of me earlier, you know in my time before. Ex-
tremely excited to be back and ready to get to work,” Callahan said.
He walks into a position group stocked 
with young talent thanks to Muschamp who specialized in that position group, 
but Callahan knows even though he has 
stud defensive backs like Vernon Harg-reaves, he still has coaching to do.
“I’m excited. I knew Vernon obviously 
from Tampa days where he’s from. He’s done a great job to this point and I’m ex-cited to work with him in terms of that. He’s already a good player, well how can we make him better?” Callahan said. “And 
that’s going to come with me looking at 
film and our staff as we meet together and see how we can better him even more.”
NOTEBOOK , from page 13
Collins
“The story of the game 
ultimately was rebounding, 
but I’m really proud of the 
fight amidst nothing going 
our way. I think that’s the 
heart of this team, and 
I think that’s what we’ll 
continue to see.”
Amanda Butler
Head coachCAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
After a competitive Fall sea-
son, the UF men’s tennis team is 
keeping a positive mindset going 
into its dual-meet season.
Florida opens the season 
ranked No. 13 in the ITA Division I Men’s Tennis poll going into its ﬁ  rst match against William & 
Mary this Saturday.
“We know we’re going to face 
adversity in the season,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “We have one 
of the toughest schedules in the nation. I want to see us respond 
well to (adversity). I feel like we 
have a win-win situation every time we play.”
Over the course of the season, 
Shelton hopes to build each of his players on and off the court.
“Our goals are going to be 
more along the lines of what we can control,” Shelton said. “I want 
to see a lot of character develop-
ment from these guys. I want to see them get better. I want to see 
them make an impact not only on 
this campus but on the commu-nity.”
Sophomore Maxx Lipman, 
one of UF’s captains, is looking forward to playing with a young 
group of players and has high ex-
pectations for the team in the ap-proaching season.
“I think during the end of the Fall we all started to play really well. That was really encourag-ing,” Lipman said. “I think we 
have a really good chance of hav-
ing a great year.”
The Brentwood, Tennessee, na-
tive ﬁ  nished the 2014 season on the All-Southeastern Conference second team and the All-Fresh-
man team.
Lipman plans to regenerate his 
hard work in the 2015 season and contribute to the team’s success.
“For me, the most important 
thing is doubles. Last year was a bit of an up and down road. I 
didn’t have as good of a record as I personally would want,” Lip-
man said. “This year I really want 
to improve on that.”
Lipman reached the doubles 
quarterﬁ  nals at the SEC Fall Clas-sic with sophomore Elliott Orkin, who also is looking forward to the 
upcoming weekend and the over-
all 2015 spring season.
The right-handed hitter ﬁ  n-
ished his freshman season with a 23-13 singles record and went 9-6 in dual match singles play.
“Last year we did pretty well. 
We started off OK but we ﬁ  nished the year strong. I feel like that 
is something we can look to do 
again this year, to continue get-ting better as the year goes on,” 
Orkin said. “We might be young 
but I think we have a lot of talent on the team and I think we have a lot of competitors on the team which is something that a lot of 
other teams can’t say probably.”
Orkin is conﬁ  dent that the 
team will grow over the course of the year and each player has high 
expectations for the upcoming season.
“I’ve been waiting for this 
Saturday to come since last May when we lost in the NCAA Tour-nament to Ohio State. Secondly, I think I can speak for all of us that we are all really excited to play,” 
Orkin said. 
“I think the sky is the limit this 
year.”
16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Bryan Shelton walks on the courts of Florida’s Ring Tennis Complex prior to UF’s win against UNF on 
Jan. 22. Shelton and the No. 13 Gators open their dual-meet season against William & Mary on Saturday. 
UF Sports In Action This Week
Friday Saturday Sunday
Women’s Basketball:
@ Missouri at 4 p.m.
Columbia, MissouriMen’s Tennis:
vs. William & Mary at 11 a.m.
Ring Tennis ComplexTrack and Field:
UAB Blazer Invitational (ends Saturday)
All Day  —  Birmingham, AlabamaMen’s Basketball:
vs. Mississippi State at 7 p.m. 
O’Connell CenterTENNIS
UF opens dual-meet season Saturday against William & Mary
Gymnastics:
@ Ball State at 1 p.m.
Muncie, Indiana