We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 18 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
UF receiver hoping to build 
on small spark from ECU game
Ahmad Fulwood seeking continued improve-
ment, pg. 17
Fuchs speaks out
Read his column on athletics and academics, pg. 6
Check out the Avenue
Tiny wrestlers, food tours and a free screening, pgs. 9-13Rubio: secret service code name would be “Gator”
In Wednesday night’s GOP debate, Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla, said, “Well there’s some people in Florida upset about me over a joke I made about Florida State, but what the heck, I want my code name to be Gator. ” By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
UF student senators are divided 
on whether students living in Inﬁ  n-
ity Hall should have their own sena-tor or be part of District A.
Senators in Student Government 
have been debating the residence-hall representation, which is based on ZIP codes. The dispute stems from the physical building’s location in the 32601 ZIP code area, which would make it fall under District A; however, its mailing address has the ZIP code 32612. The building is also 
operated, but not owned, by UF. 
Sen. Michael Christ (Access, 
graduate) said Inﬁ  nity Hall should have its own senator. Inﬁ  nity has 
an area government and, because of that, should have representation in 
Senate. 
“Every student should have 
someone ﬁ  ghting for them in Stu-
dent Senate,” he said.
Marti Stein, an Inﬁ  nity Hall resi-
dent, said she would want to be represented as part of District A. Everyone else on campus has one person representing their general 
areas, the 18-year-old UF nutritional sciences freshman said. She said she 
wouldn’t oppose having someone from Inﬁ  nity as a District A senator.
“We’d be treated just like anoth-
er dorm,” she said.
Sen. Charlie Brown Jr. (Swamp, 
agriculture) supports having Inﬁ  n-ity  represented as part of District A. By having the residence hall in the district, multiple Inﬁ  nity students could run for one of District A’s 10 seats.
“They will be able to have more than one person from Inﬁ  nity,” he said. Kevin Bayas, an Inﬁ  nity Hall resident, said Inﬁ  nity is different 
from surrounding apartments that 
might house older students.
“There are a lot of freshmen,” 
the 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman said.
He said his residence hall should 
have its own senator. 
“It’s like having a senator for 
Florida who’s not from Florida,” he 
said.
UF Senate debates Inﬁ  nity Hall representation
CAMPUS
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
berickson@alligator.org
On Wednesday, two bills opposing the 
Florida statute banning concealed weapons 
on university and college campuses were passed through committees in the Florida House and Senate.
The bills — HB 4001 and SB 68, which 
would allow for permit-carrying persons 21 and older to carry ﬁ  rearms on campus — will go to the ﬂ  oor of both branches for a vote in January.
The hearing follows the Sept. 8 lawsuit 
against Florida State University ﬁ  led by Flori-da Carry, a nonproﬁ  t organization supporting the Second Amendment.
The lawsuit accused FSU’s concealed 
weapons policy of being an outdated docu-ment that went against a Florida law saying guns are allowed on campus if concealed in a vehicle.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in 
an email that UF has consistently opposed al-lowing guns on campus.
Florida campus police chiefs “are united 
in opposition to any legislation that would al-low guns on campus,” she said.
In 2014, Florida Carry ﬁ  led a lawsuit 
against UF’s ﬁ  rearms-in-vehicles policy, Sikes said.  Now, the university is going through an appeals process after Florida Carry ﬁ  led an appeal.
      
Former political director of UF College 
Democrats Frances Chapman, 20, said she  FL Legislature 
committees pass gun bills
IT’S THE 10TH ANNUAL EVENT.
By Paola Asencio
Alligator Contributing Writer
Belly-dancing students will shimmy 
through the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Saturday.
From 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., Gators for Asha will 
host its 10th annual celebration of Indian cul-
ture: Praharsha.
Volunteer coordinator Nalanda 
Chakraborty, 29, said the culture fest will celebrate hope and joy, which is “praharsha” 
translated from Sanskrit to English.
Gators for Asha hope to illustrate India’s 
economic problems and compel attendees to donate money, said the UF graduate student studying speech, language and hearing sci-ences.
The event will feature belly dancers, a 
male a cappella group and other Bollywood performances, Chakraborty said.
Praharsha will appeal to everyone, even 
those from outside Indian culture, said Sh-ramdaan coordinator Revathi Kadari. 
“A person outside of our culture knows about Bollywood through sitcoms or movies, so we present what people know and what 
people don’t know,” the 25-year-old comput-
er science graduate student said.
Chakraborty said the group expects about 
1,000 people to attend. The event costs about $5,000.
First-time attendee Li-Li Chen, 34, said she 
wants to learn more about the Indian lifestyle.
“I want to learn what kind of music they 
usually have in their culture because when I 
see the Bollywood movies, they always pres-
ent it in a very pleasant way,” the UF political science graduate student said.Gators for Asha celebrate Indian culture
SEE GUN,  PAGE 4Students express concerns
APOCAL YPSE NAH
Amy Fu, a 19-year-old UF advertising sophomore, 
dances to “Or Nah” by The Weeknd during Apoca-lypse Dance Crew’s Fall auditions on Wednesday in the Reitz Union. While the dance crew is all male, several people out of about 30 at the audi-tion were women who came just to learn a dance and have fun.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Gallery Talk: Art of Resistance
Visit the Samuel P. Harn 
Museum of Art at 1 p.m. 
Saturday for a Gallery Talk by 
Kerry Oliver-Smith, curator of contemporary art. Oliver-Smith will focus on revolution 
and resistance in art practice, 
highlighting the work of con-temporary artists from Chile, Venezuela and Cuba in the current exhibition “Contesting 
Terrain” and extending the 
discussion to works by artists in other parts of the world. Admission and parking is free 
on the weekends. More infor-
mation can be found at harn.ufl.edu or by contacting ek-ing@harn.ufl.edu.
Gator Plunge
Gator Plunge is a single-day service project where hun-dreds of volunteers will partici-
pate in service projects around 
Gainesville. Service projects will include working with ani-mals, art and culture, youth de-velopment, elder care, environ-
mental issues, homelessness, 
housing and more. Volunteers will learn about service oppor-tunities in Gainesville, meet new people and network with 
campus leaders. On Saturday, 
volunteers will meet at 8 a.m. at gate one of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center for breakfast before spreading out into the 
community. The event will last 
until 1 p.m. If you have any questions, email greatamerican-cleanup.kacb@gmail.com or 
visit the website at: leadershi-
pandservice.ufl.edu/programs/days_of_service/gator_plunge/.
Park(ing) Day
UF Student Chapter of American 
Society of Landscape Architects 
(UF SCASLA)  is hosting 
Gainesville’s representation of 
Park(ing) Day from from 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday at 
101 N. Main St. Park(ing) Day 
is a global event that focuses 
on the impact of green commu-
nal spaces in an urban context. 
Pop-up parks will be placed in 
parking spaces. More informa-
tion can be found at parking-
day.org/about-parking-day/.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. Keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
In our story “Nursing program to be added to UF Online” that ran in Wednesday’s paper, we 
incorrectly reported who is able 
to register for the program. Only Florida-registered nurses are able to register for the UF 
Online program.
In our story “Florida Museum of 
Natural History celebrates but-terflies” that ran in Wednesday’s 
paper, we incorrectly reported 
the price of admission for the event. Admission to the event is free, while the cost for admis-
sion to the Butterfly Rainforest 
is $10.50 for adults and $9 for Florida residents and students.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 110 ISSUE 18
HIGH  81° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
UF PERFORMING ARTS 
WELCOMES NEW 
DIRECTOR.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
afernandez@alligator.org 
Brian Jose wasn’t always ex-
pressing his creativity.
Jose, the new director of UF 
Performing Arts, said he grew up 
as an athlete and was never given the opportunity to explore his in-
terest in the arts. 
“I didn’t grow up in that en-
vironment, so I’m committed to 
ensuring that university students 
have the opportunity to test their 
creativity and develop their cre-ativity,” he said. 
He will begin his duties as the 
new UF Performing Arts’ direc-
tor Nov. 12, a position previously 
held by Michael Blachly.
Veronica Mingrone, an ad-
ministrative intern at UFPA, said Blachly was very loved.  
“I think Michael will be re-
ally missed,” said Mingrone, a 21-year-old UF public relations senior. “I don’t think there is a 
question about that, but I’m so 
excited to have new leadership in 
UFPA.” 
During Blach-
ly’s 15 years at 
UFPA, the per-
forming arts 
program became internationally 
known. 
Jose said he 
plans to engage 
UF students in performing arts 
during his time as director. 
Jose is currently the executive 
director of ﬁ  ne arts programming at the College of Saint Benedict in St. Joseph, Minnesota, and Saint 
John’s University in Collegeville, 
Minnesota. 
He said he’s looking forward 
to becoming part of UF’s highly regarded performing arts pro-
gram. 
“I have a great interest in en-
gaging students in creativity,” he 
said. “It’s one of the things that’s 
most important to me.”
Elizabeth Auer, the interim 
director of UFPA, said Jose is a 
team player, and the staff is ex-cited to work with him. 
“He’s great,” she said. “He’s 
open to new ideas, and that’s very much appreciated.”
Auer, who will return to her 
position as assistant director once Jose comes to UF, said Jose should have no problem ﬁ  lling Blachly’s shoes.
“They’re actually very com-
plementary to one another,” she said. “I think people will be pleas-antly surprised. I think they’ll see some new ﬂ  ourishes put on with 
this season with things that Brian 
chooses to do.”From athletics to art
Jose
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
DENVER — Colorado’s mari-
juana growers were the big win-
ners Wednesday when the state suspended new recreational pot taxes, a tax quirk that saved shop-
pers some sales tax but saved 
wholesalers tens of thousands.
Prompted by a quirk in state tax 
law, the one-day tax suspension al-lowed growers to transfer a month or more of inventory without pay-ing 15-percent excise taxes, or $300 a pound.
The odd tax waiver was trig-
gered almost two years ago, when Colorado voters approved two taxes on recreational marijuana — a 10-percent sales tax for shop-pers and a 15-percent excise tax for wholesale growers.
Ahead of that vote, state tax 
analysts miscalculated overall state revenue for 2014. The error trig-
gered a mandatory suspension of the new pot taxes.
Lawmakers decided to waive 
the taxes only for a single day, 
though voters will have to return to polls in November to authorize the state to keep about $50 million in pot taxes collected in 2014.
Colorado tracks marijuana 
sales, but it doesn’t make the data public, making it impossible to know if Wednesday set a single-day sales record. Several retailers said the day was akin to a busy holiday weekend.
A ﬁ  scal analysis prepared for 
state lawmakers earlier this year predicted that pot growers would 
use the tax holiday to transfer a 
month of marijuana supply. They estimated a one-day suspension would cost the state between $3 million and $4 million in lost taxes — an estimate the state marijua-na regulators declined to update Wednesday. Colorado marijuana 
growers save big 4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local woman 
early Wednesday morning after she report-
edly threw rocks through the window of her mother’s apartment.
About 2:15 a.m. Wednesday, Jessica Har-
well, 33, reportedly threw rocks up to 6 inches long through her mother’s bedroom window, according to a police report.
Charles Simpson, 35, who is dating Har-
well’s sister, said he was visiting the home and didn’t know if someone was trying to prank or kill them.
“I didn’t know what was going on at first,” 
he said. “I thought somebody was playing or 
something.”
Simpson and the mother went outside and 
saw Harwell, who first ran away before re-turning to slap Simpson’s face, he said.
Harwell reportedly said her mother owed 
her $170.
She reportedly struggled with police while 
being handcuffed and searched. She then re-
moved the handcuffs in the police car and resisted again when officers tried to replace them. An officer asked for her name, to which Harwell replied, “F--- you,” according to po-lice reports. Police later found a small bag lined with cocaine residue while searching 
Harwell at the jail, according to the report.
Police arrested Harwell on charges of 
throwing a deadly missile, smuggling contra-
band into a detention facility and resisting an officer, along with escape, battery, possession of cocaine and possession of drug parapher-nalia.
Authorities took her to the Alachua County 
Jail where, as of press time, she remains with-
out bond.Hospital fight, men arrested
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two men 
early Wednesday morning after they re-
portedly attacked a man in the Malcom 
Randall Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
At about 4:30 a.m., Robin Bodin, 32, 
and Robert Bodin, 46, confronted a man 
sitting in the lobby of the center, which is 
part of UF Health Shands Hospital, accord-
ing to police reports.
According to the reports, the brothers 
walked from the emergency room and talked with someone about their frustra-
tions with the hospital.
Robert then began to argue with a near-
by man Robert felt was giving dirty looks. 
The victim then stood up and Robert 
walked toward him and said they could, 
“take it outside like men,” according to the reports.Robin reportedly started walking to 
join his brother and the man raised his 
hands and backed up. 
When Robin started kicking chairs, 
Robert stood in front of him and spit on 
the man.
According to police reports, the man 
stepped back again and Robin swung at him several times, causing red marks on his face and head.
Robin later told police he was protect-
ing his brother, and Robert said he spit after the man called him a p---y, according to the reports.
Neither brother returned requests for 
comment.
Police arrested the brothers on charges 
of battery and took them to the Alachua County Jail, where they were released Wednesday afternoon on their own recog-
nizance.
Police arrest local woman; 
she escaped handcuffs
supports UF administrators who oppose 
guns on UF campus.
“We know that accidents frequently oc-
cur with concealed firearms,” the UF po-litical science senior said. “And at a school 
with over 40,000 students, people would get 
hurt.”
But Students for Concealed Carry at UF 
President Joshua Roe said the recent as-saults and armed robberies near campus raise concern for safety.
These incidents may have been less likely 
to happen if students were allowed to carry firearms, said the 33-year-old doctoral stu-
dent in tourism, recreation and sport man-
agement.
•   •   •
At FSU in 2014, a shooting left three stu-
dents wounded and one dead.
Twenty-year-old FSU psychology and 
criminology junior Brittany Barnhart said some argue that if students can carry guns, 
then the shooter in their library could have 
been stopped.
“If everyone starts taking out their guns, 
then how do we know who the shooter is?” Barnhart said.
•   •   •
But Brandon Woolf, vice president of 
Students for Concealed Carry at UF, said he thinks guns should be allowed on campus.  
The 22-year-old architecture senior said 
Floridians carrying concealed weapons are 
less likely to commit a felony crime than po-
lice officers.
“At the end of the day, the mind is the 
weapon, and the firearm is the tool,” he said.
•   •   •
Roe said he is pushing for the bill that 
would increase protection for classmates and colleagues if that unfortunate situation were to arise.
“Your safety and our safety as a commu-
nity is important,” Roe said.GUN,  from pg1Some groups support the billSANTA FE
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
During a Senate meeting Wednesday night, 
Santa Fe College Student Senate approved and reinstated several senators and learned the outcome of a resolution about skateboarding on campus.
After weeks of discussion on where the 
resolution stood, President Pro-tempore Mat-thew Pearson told Senate the resolution was rejected by the college.
“It basically got shot down,” Pearson said.The resolution would have allowed stu-
dents to skateboard on sidewalks bordering the campus and in the parking lots. Sen. Jay Bartels presented the resolution over the sum-
mer.
The Safety Committee — which discussed 
the matter during a meeting Aug. 20 — noted 
three causes for concern in allowing skate-boards, scooters and roller skates on campus. It advised against changes to college rules to allow use of the items on campus as reasons for rejecting the resolution.
The concerns included the objects’ dimin-
ished ability to maneuver and avoid danger, the college having to assume exposure to new liability and a Florida statute that prohibits op-eration of the items in parking lots.
Senate approved Carlos Alfonzo as aca-
demic senator for the English department and his sister Annakarina Alfonzo as a senator-at-large.
Their brother, Rafael Alfonzo, was ap-
proved as director of communications at the previous Senate meeting.
Senators also approved a $2,353.56 over-
flow request by the Graphic Design Student Association to attend a graphic design confer-ence in New Orleans from Oct. 8-10.
“There’s a lot of representatives from oth-
er colleges,” said club president Erin Porter, 
adding the trip serves as a good way to make 
connections, acquire an understanding of the industry in a way education can’t and beef up portfolios.Santa Fe Senate allots funds
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Breaking the Ice
Christian Madali, an 18-year-old UF aerospace engineering freshman, breaks 
apart an ice pop on Wednesday in the Computer Science and Engineering Build-ing to find out the name of his “big” in UF’s Chinese American Student Association. The organization held an Avatar-themed event in which members did fire-, air-, earth- or water-themed activities to find the names of their “bigs” and “littles, ” the students they will mentor or be mentored by in the club.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CAMPUS
By Ryan Harke
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Center for Global Is-
lamic Studies is exploring the 
relationship between medicine 
and Islamic ethics.
The center will hold a confer-
ence, called “Islamic Bioethics 
& Spirituality in Contemporary 
Medicine,” to discuss the ethical 
questions of biomedicine, an ap-proach to medicine that focuses on nature and biology. 
It will be held Saturday at Us-
tler Hall from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. The event is free and open to the public.
There is always a number of 
ethical dilemmas that relate to medicine, said Terje Ostebo, di-rector of the UF Center for Glob-al Islamic Studies. 
“Islam has ethical impera-
tives and an overarching think-ing on human value,” he said. “We are attempting to combine these more ethical aspects with 
the scientiﬁ  c side of medical re-
search.” 
The conference represents 
the center’s goal of providing outreach, education and “a ﬂ  oor for academic discourse about topics that are related to Islam and Muslim peoples,” said Mus-
tafa Ahmed, a UF professor of 
medicine who helped plan the event.
“There has been a move to-
ward more holistic approaches to patient care and medical edu-
cation in the United States that 
incorporate concepts of mind-fulness, awareness and under-standing the cultural sensitivi-ties of various culture groups,” 
Ahmed said. 
He said the convention will 
ﬁ  t into that concept.
Ostebo said holistic research 
affects people of all faiths 
around the world because ev-eryone needs medicine.
UF biology senior Asad Ha-
roon said he will be attending the event, and he thinks it’s im-portant for students to see how the advancement of science re-lates to ethics.
“This event relates to ev-
eryone,” the 21-year-old said. “We are all concerned with our health, and it’s important that we know what guidelines to fol-
low as we advance in the ﬁ  eld of 
medicine.” Role of  ethics and 
medicine to be dis-cussed at conference       
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
During a Santa Fe College open 
forum held Wednesday night, lo-
cal community leaders addressed issues of race relations, police-citizen relations, drug laws and 
mental illness.
Gainesville City Commis-
sioner Charles Goston and Ala-
chua County Sheriff Sadie Dar-nell joined Santa Fe College Vice President of Student Affairs Naima Brown on a panel to discuss and answer questions from an audi-ence of about 16, focusing mostly on racism.
The forum, organized and 
moderated by Santa Fe journalism student Lucas Jewell, was held to determine what Santa Fe can do to improve issues on campus. 
Jewell asked panelists ques-
tions about race, police brutality and the Black Lives Matter move-ment.
During the panel, both Goston 
and Darnell focused on what they called a history of systemic racism in America.
“We have a lot of work to do 
to restore trust in the commu-nity and in the profession,” Dar-nell said, referring to the Michael Brown case in Ferguson, Missouri.  
Jewell brought up the introduc-
tion of body cameras to certain law enforcement agencies, but Darnell said she didn’t think it was a logi-cal, or affordable, solution.
“It isn’t right to judge people 
by the uniform they wear or by the color of their skin,” she said. “There is a person under the uni-form, and we are ﬂ  awed individu-
als, too.”
Goston looked at the historical 
perspective.
“Black lives are historically 
considered less valuable,” he said. 
“We’re on the precipice of disaster if we don’t get it together.” Santa Fe discusses social issues“W e are attempting to 
combine these more ethical 
aspects with the scientiic 
side of medical research.” 
T erje Ostebo
director of the UF Center for 
Global Islamic Studies
STUDY ABROAD
Bobbi Stienmetz (left), a 
campus recruiter for the Peace Corps, discusses international graduate opportunities with Madeline Bieda, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, during the Study Abroad Fair on Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas. Bieda was interested in pursuing an internship after graduation.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Racism discussed in forumThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Some of my Ivy League friends ask how 
I am adjusting to the National Collegiate Athletic Association, or NCAA, as presi-
dent. Their perception is if a university 
has a highly ranked athletic program, it 
must be due to misplaced priorities, and it must come at a cost to academic stature.  
My friends are correct on several points. First, 
UF has one of the nation’s highest-ranked ath-letic programs. For example, UF’s is the only pro-gram in the country to ﬁ  nish among the top 10 in each of the last 32 national all-sports standings. UF has captured 17 
national championships since 2006, more than any other 
university in the nation. Florida teams in 12 different sports have won national titles, a record surpassed by only three universities in the country. 
Second, top-ranked universities have damaged their 
reputations due to misplaced priorities and bad manage-ment related to athletics. Other university presidents have told me half their time is consumed with problems in their athletics programs.
Third, most universities subsidize their NCAA athletics 
with funds that could have been invested in academics.
At UF, we are different. We are a university marked by comprehensive academic 
AND athletic excellence. Our goal is to be a university that the nation and the world look to for leadership in academ-ics and athletics, and where all programs are well managed and implemented with integrity.
Where are we today? In my “unbiased” opinion, UF is 
among only a handful of universities, public or private, that is on track to consistently achieve these aspirations. For ex-ample, we have the correct ﬁ  nancial priorities — academics at UF does not subsidize athletics. After the University Ath-
letic Association pays all its expenses from the revenue it generates, it actually makes a contribution back 
to the university. UAA’s budget represents only about 2 percent of the university’s total budget.  
Are academics and athletics at UF perfect? 
No. We know there is always room for improve-ment. 
However, we are committed to two princi-
ples. First, we will always aspire to be the very best we can be and to be a national leader in how we do it. Second, although our goals in-
clude national distinction in all our academic and athletic programs, we will have, as our highest priority, the educa-
tion and well-being of the students entrusted to us.
Superb athletics and academics can beneﬁ  t each other. 
I am inspired in my own work by the commitment of our 
student-athletes and coaches to nationally ranked excel-lence — and their relentless hard work in being the very 
best. Our faculty remind me of the privilege of living and 
working in an environment where the discovery of knowl-edge, learning and the development of students is the pre-mier goal.
There is much to cheer about academically and athleti-
cally at UF. I intend to be one of the loudest cheerleaders. Go Gators!
Kent Fuchs is the University of Florida President. His 
column appears monthly. ColumnWednesday, global news outlets and social media feeds were inundated with the plight of Ahmed Mohamed, a 14-year-old boy from Irving, Texas. 
Mohamed, a Muslim, was arrested, handcuffed 
and removed from MacArthur High School by 
police ofﬁ  cers after he brought in a clock he made to show  his engineering teacher. Another teacher, who asked to 
see what Mohamed had in his backpack after hearing the 
clock beep in class, interpreted the wire-laden device to be a threat. The teacher reported Mohamed to school ofﬁ  cials, after which the arrest occurred.
The media has thoroughly critiqued and analyzed this 
incident as a stunning instance of Islamophobia and reac-tionary school policies. The picture of Mohamed in hand-cuffs, staring into the camera with an expression that lies somewhere between abject fear and incredulity, is poised 
to become an iconic indicator of where American society 
is in 2015.
The fallout of this incident, such as invites to the White 
House and Facebook headquarters, has ultimately been a positive one, despite the traumatic event; Mohamed has had 
his hard work and ingenuity afﬁ  rmed, and a much-needed 
light has been shone on a troubling trend in American civil society.
However, most of the coverage of this issue has solely 
focused on Mohamed’s status as a Muslim: What about his status as a student? Why was a nonviolent 14-year-old, who clearly posed no physical threat to himself or others, hand-cuffed in the manner of a common criminal?
Mohamed’s situation is yet another example of the ongo-
ing criminalization of young American students. In 2008, a 13-year-old boy in Stuart, Florida was arrested for “passing gas;” in 2012, a police ofﬁ  cer in Milledgeville, Georgia ar-rested a kindergartner after she threw a temper tantrum. 
Yes, dealing with a petulant child is one of the most frus-
trating things a person can ever deal with, but handcufﬁ  ng a 6-year-old? Why has this become OK?
The myriad tragedies this country has experienced, 
such as 9/11, Columbine and Newtown, have left us shell-
shocked and reactionary to a fault. 
Although we don’t take steps to get to the root of issues 
that would actually heal afﬂ  ictions affecting the U.S., such 
as legal loops in gun control and inadequate mental health 
care, it seems we have no qualms about putting children 
between the ages of six and 14 in handcuffs, all with the aim of making us “safer.” 
There is nothing “safe” about degrading and humiliating 
children, just as there is nothing “safe” about irresponsible 
policing. 
What unfolded in Texas on Wednesday is not an isolated 
incident that solely hinges around xenophobia and proﬁ  l-
ing, but is part of a much larger issue we must confront in 
American life.Arrest of 
student part of a 
worrying trend
Do athletics and academics compete?  Not at UF
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“W e are a university marked 
by comprehensive academic 
AND athletic excellence.”THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Earlier this month, a photojournalist 
sprang into consciousness and put a human face on the refugee crisis that 
has emerged from the violence and 
political instability in Syria.
It was the face of a deceased 3-year-old 
boy from Syria. 
The boy had fled with his family but 
wound up drowning and then washed onto the shore of a Turkish beach. 
In the days that passed, U.S. politicians 
such as Hillary Clinton and John McCain 
would publicly express their sympathies.  
I don’t mean to downplay the serious-
ness of the refugee crisis, but where are 
the sympathies toward the influx of im-
migrants into this country, namely the un-
documented?
Under current immigration law, no 
group of permanent immigrants from a single country can exceed 7 percent of the 
total number of people immigrating to the 
U.S. in a year.
This is a policy that winds up calculat-
ing certain lives as more valuable than oth-
ers. This has largely been a politi-
cal move for the U.S. rather than 
a policy based on humanitarian 
aims. 
For instance, there is the pass-
ing of the Cuban Adjustment Act 
in 1966 and the classification of 
Cuban immigrants as political 
refugees that followed. 
This act allowed many ex-
ceptions immigrants from other countries do not get. 
One of them enabled Cubans to be con-
sidered permanent residents in a year’s time. 
It’s still in effect today — more than 20 
years since the end of the Cold War — but anti-Castro sentiments still remain.
Are they not refugees? Let’s look at the 
legal definition. 
According to the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act: “A person who is unable or unwilling to return to his or her home country because of a ‘well-founded fear of persecution’ due to race, membership in a 
particular social group, political opinion, religion, or national origin.”
The point is, this narrow defi-
nition excludes a range of people and experiences that ought to be 
considered. 
Let’s look at the case of Mex-
ico. 
It’s a country where more than 
half of its citizens live in pover-ty, and it has one of the highest murder rates in the world. 
The desire for security from violence 
and economic welfare is reason enough to migrate elsewhere.
It would seem that these statistics might 
not matter for U.S. lawmakers. 
This has forced Mexican immigrants 
— who are not able to go through official channels due to quota restrictions — to make the trip along the U.S.-Mexico bor-der. 
This has resulted in more than 6,000 
deaths between 2000 and 2014 due to star-vation and dehydration, according to a re-port by the International Organization for 
Migration.There’s a lot of reflection that needs to 
happen concerning immigration policy, 
such as contemplating how some immi-
grants are warmly embraced and others are 
excluded and even criminalized.
I’m sure most of you come from families 
of immigrants who escaped persecution of 
some kind or were in search of better op-
portunities, either by legal or illegal means. 
We’re all worthy of dignity no matter 
how we may have wound up in this coun-try, or the reasons why.
In the past few decades, globalization 
has been a popular term within U.S. politi-cal culture, and it’s commonly thought to be a great democratizing force. 
People usually refer to the free flow of 
ideas and possessions related to interna-tional trade when speaking about the term. However, why not think of it this way? 
The free flow of ideas, possessions and 
people. 
Especially in the face of poverty and 
violence, I think it’s a great idea.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Thursdays.We need to reflect on the refugee crisis and not shut our doors on themColumn
Aubrey
 Krampert
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Welcome, Mediocre Advice!
Have a problem? Our column will guide you through it — with the worst possible advice. #MediocreAdvicemediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.comWhat’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Scrubs, ” pg 10.The Avenue’s ﬁ  rst-ever Hulu binge drinking game, pg 11.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
If you missed Micro Championship Wrestling on pay-per-view, you can still catch them live at High Dive, lo-cated at 210 SW Second Ave., on Friday.
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Micro Championship Wrestling is com-
ing back to Gainesville, bringing along the 
“greatest little show on earth.”
This “midget wrestling company” was 
featured on truTV’s “Hulk Hogan’s Mi-
cro Championship Wrestling.” Its slogan: 
“Half the size, twice the violence.”
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Pres-
ents, wrote in an email the stars of MCW have been booked all over Florida. They also had their ﬁ  rst-ever pay-per-view event Wednesday.
“When we had them there back in De-
cember it was by far the loudest and crazi-
est crowd I have ever seen for any kind of 
shows at High Dive,” Lavery said.
The micro-athletes and Johnny Greene, 
the MCW president and host who goes by Johnny G, will be back at High Dive, lo-cated at 210 SW Second Ave., on Friday.
Tickets are available in advance on 
ticketﬂ  y.com. VIP stage seating tickets are $25, and VIP ringside seating tickets are $22. General admission tickets are avail-able for $12 in advance or for $15 on the 
day of the show. Early entry into the beer 
garden will begin at 8 p.m., and doors for the arena open at 9 p.m.
The show started when Johnny G, 
also known as Johnny Attitude of World Championship Wrestling, was travel-ing around the country as a bodyguard. One night, he saw little people wrestling at a bar and at that point he knew how successful an exclusive league and show could be.
Greene is now the owner and president 
of Florida-based Micro Championship Wrestling, where he hosts and commen-tates the shows as Johnny G.
He feels his performers are talented 
athletes who can reach any demographic. They could walk into a country where English is not spoken and still be able to  put on a great show, he said.
“We don’t sell wrestling, bro,” Greene 
said. “We sell a good time to the crowd.”People often leave the shows with 
smiles on their faces, talking about how athletic the performers are, Greene said. They’re able to do all of the stuff that the big guys do, but he believes that they do it a little better.
The show combines high-ﬂ  ying wres-
tling moves and comedy. The performers have learned to read the crowd and know when to give them more action or when 
to turn up the humor. They have shows 
with material ranging from family-friendly to adult-only.
When they’re not in the ring, they’re 
active in the community, giving anti-bullying talks at schools and visiting chil-dren’s hospitals.
“My guys, you know, they’ve got 
hearts of gold,” Greene said. “Anytime 
they can go out there, especially when it 
comes to kids, you know, they’re all about it.”
Johnny G and his guys are used to 
touring and performing in different cities, but Gainesville is always a highlight.
“Because we are Gators, brother,” 
Greene said. “The MCW crew is all Gators.”‘Greatest little show’ to come to GNV
By Carel Lajara
Avenue Writer
Two local newlyweds hosted the ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial 
Gainesville Food Tour on Saturday, followed by an-
other on Sunday, attracting a full crowd and intro-
ducing a new dining trend to Gainesville.
Another three-hour guided tour will be at 10:45 
a.m. Sept. 27 in downtown Gainesville.
Ryan Earls and Caroline Chance Earls, the tour’s 
founders, will offer cultural and historical facts about 
the city while stopping tour-goers by ﬁ  ve local food spots to sample some of their best dishes.
“(We look for) a good representation of Gainesville 
— somewhere with good food and a good history to 
it,” Ryan said.
Food tours have become popular activities among 
tourists in recent years and — according to Ryan, a 
33-year-old software operations manager and entre-
preneur — it’s the fastest growing tour segment.
Ryan and 29-year-old Caroline, a licensed mar-
riage and family therapist and director of the Partners 
in Adolescent Lifestyle Support program, decided to turn their passion for good food and meeting new 
people into a delicious experience that will introduce 
some of Gainesville’s hidden gems.
The couple cooked up the idea for the Gainesville 
Food Tour while attending food tours in places such 
as New York, Las Vegas and Italy.
“The best part about doing this is getting to meet 
new people, getting to showcase Gainesville in a pos-
itive light and having fun while doing it,” Ryan said.
Eight restaurants are currently partnered with the 
food tour, including Vellos Historic Brickstreet Grill, The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops, Liquid Ginger and The Sweet Tea at the Sweetwater Branch Inn. Each tour 
will feature ﬁ  ve of the restaurants.
Cornelia Holbrook, the owner of the Sweetwater 
Branch Inn, has lived in Gainesville most of her life 
and feels very rooted in the community.
“It’s a new concept, but hopefully it’ll catch on,” 
Holbrook, whose restaurant was featured last Sun-
day, said.
She said a food tour across downtown is a great 
way to introduce oneself to the culinary arena in Gainesville.
“People do (food) tours in Europe all the time, 
why not have a tour in Gainesville?” Holbrook said.GNV Food Tour 
covers history, local eateries
LOCAL
Fight is Friday at High Dive
“(W e look for) a good representation of 
Gainesville — somewhere with good food and a 
good history to it.”
Ryan Earls
co-tour founderTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
Very few shows can walk the ﬁ  ne line between 
drama and comedy. “Scrubs,” however, seems to 
cruise the line just ﬁ  ne through nine seasons. Dur-ing its nine-year run, the American medical com-edy series brought more than just laughs.
The show follows a young doctor, Dr. John 
“J.D.” Dorian (Zach Braff), and his friends, sur-geon Christopher Turk (Donald Faison) and Elliot Reid (Sarah Chalke), in the ﬁ  ctional Sacred Heart Hospital. 
What makes “Scrubs” unique isn’t just its char-
acters or premise, but rather how it can go from making you laugh to making you cry (no, seri-ously, you will cry). 
While some sitcoms might shy away from kill-
ing the mood with a death or two — or three in one scene — “Scrubs” embraces the emotional pain that comes with being a doctor. 
Creator Bill Lawrence, whose credits include 
“Friends” and “Boy Meets World,” gives us what great sitcoms have always provided: life lessons.
“Scrubs” has offered almost 10 years of great 
TV, thus prepare yourself (and your liver) for nine 
seasons of great television. From laughs to hijinks 
and tears, the emotional roller coaster you’ll feel will only have one remedy: lots of alcohol.  By Alfredo Morales
Avenue Writer Take a sip when…
 J.D. has a fantasy
 Dr. Cox calls  J.D. a girlʼs name or 
“Newbie”
 Turk dances
 Carla speaks Spanish
Take a shot when…
 Elliot says “frick” (four sips for 
“double frick”)
 A patient dies
 Jordan sasses Dr. Cox
 Dr. Kelso has a mufﬁ  n
 The Janitor teases J.D.
 Something sad happens to Ted
Finish your drink when…
 Dr. Kelso is genuinely nice
 Dr. Cox is nice to J.D.
 J.D. messes it up with a girl
 You feel sad (Told you it would 
happen.)
 Dr. Todd does something 
inappopriate 
 J.D. and Turk have a momentTake a sip when…
 Brock alludes to his love for Led 
Zeppelin and John Bonham
 Billy Quizboy tries to get a high-
ﬁ v e
 Something horrible happens to 
H.E.L.P.eR., the family robot
Take a shot when…
 Dr. Orpheus pontiﬁ  cates about 
nothing as stirring, overdramatic 
music plays in the background
 Thereʼs a David Bowie reference, 
or David Bowie himself appears
 A traumatic story from Dr. 
Ventureʼs childhood is told
 An awkward detail is ﬁ  lled in on 
The Monarch and Dr. Mrs. The 
Monarchʼs sex life
Finish your drink when…
 Every time a major story arc 
is wrapped up in a somewhat 
haphazard and rushed fashion
 When an offscreen character who 
was casually mentioned three 
seasons earlier gets a major role
 Every time an allusion is made 
to Dr. Ventureʼs awful taste in 
alcohol or his disgusting cocktail 
recipesDear Mediocre Advice,This girl I have made out with a few times invited me over to 
“watch Netﬂ  ix and chill,” and we watched Netﬂ  ix and chilled… I tried to make a move, but she says she just doesn’t see me like that anymore. Did I just get friendzoned?
- Concerned Connor
No, Concerned Connor, sometimes women like playing hard-
to-get and will say things that are the exact opposite of what they think in order to… JUST KIDDING, BRO. WELCOME TO THE FRIEND ZONE. IT WAS NICE KNOWING YOU. Next thing you know she’s going to post an Instagram picture of you guys together with the caption: “You’re like a brother to me.” Cue “Shot Through the Heart” by Bon Jovi. 
Your next question will probably be, “How can I get out?” Answer: You can’t.
Hey, Advice Guy,
I have an overnight date function this weekend. I want to take 
this one girl, but she’s playing a little hard-to-get. I’ve already got-ten with her before, so I don’t feel the need to take her. Part of me wants to, but the other half says to ask someone else. Thoughts?
- Indecisive Isaac
Well, which half of you wants to take her? The top half or the 
bottom half? Because if it’s the top half, then you’re just being ridiculous — never let your brain get in the way of your deci-sion-making. Regardless, you and your date are going to have a terriﬁ  c time no matter who she is. But keep in mind, if you take a random girl you can always try to swoon her by convincing her of something ridiculous, like saying you’re Peyton Manning’s 
MEDIOCRE ADVICEFriend Zone, Dating and Manscaping
younger brother. Now I know you’re no Peyton Manning, but I do have conﬁ  dence you can transform into Peyton Manning’s younger brother — except better looking and with better ﬁ  nger sensitivity.
Dearest Simon,I have a girlfriend whom I care about a lot, but there’s just 
one problem… I have a crap ton of chest hair. I want to taste-fully manscape the brunette behemoth on my chest to please the lady in my life, but I don’t want to look like a hairless cat either. What do I do?!
- Harry Chesticles
I’m being 100 percent stereotypical right now, but I’m just 
assuming that, like every girl to ever exist in the history of ever, when your girlfriend sleeps over she steals the blankets over to her side in the middle of the night. Your chest hair can hardly keep you warm, but what if it could keep both of you warm? My advice: Shave your chest hair, hire a weaver with the most nimble ﬁ  ngers you can ﬁ  nd, and ask him or her to weave a quilt from your chest hair for you and your girlfriend to use at night. Gross? I know. But effective? Absolutely.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. His column appears in the Avenue section on Thursdays. 
If you have any questions you would 
like to see answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com, and specify whether you prefer to stay anonymous.
Simon Moskovitz
avenue@alligator.org“The Venture Bros.,” which is currently Adult 
Swim’s longest-running show, will return for its sixth season Feb. 7.
Although it’s been two years since the show 
aired its ﬁ  fth season — and eight months since a 
stand-alone hour-long special — “Venture Bros.” 
fans have had no problem being patient. After all, since the show ran its ﬁ  rst season in 2004, fans have been forced to wait years between seasons.
Despite being a comedy in the vein of callback-
centric shows like “Arrested Development,” “The Venture Bros.” has been described by some as “The Sopranos” for the beta male. With a sprawl-ing cast of characters deﬁ  ned by failure, tragic pasts 
and grim futures, the show takes the most beloved 
characters of our youth — our James Bonds, our Supermans and our Jonny Quests — and imagines if they had to contend with the neuroses and ennui that come with living in the 21st century.
In spite of the depressing description, it is a 
hilarious show, with much of its humor rooted deeply in geek culture and obscure, near-useless pop-culture detritus.
The show’s entire ﬁ  ve-season run can be found 
on Hulu, and select episodes are hosted on Adult Swim’s website.By Zach Schlein
Avenue Writer By Kemi Thomas
Avenue Writer
If you’ve been waiting for the 
season two premiere of Fox’s 
“Empire” on Wednesday, you 
might want to catch a special 
sneak-peek of it this weekend in Gainesville.
Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment was able to get Fox, one of the biggest media conglomerates, to preview the new season almost a week in advance.
The screening will take place 
Friday at GatorNights, a free event held every Friday where students can watch movies and participate in activities. 
Doors will open at 7:30 p.m., 
and students will be able to see the ﬁ  rst 15 minutes of the never-before-seen season premiere.
“Ted 2” will follow with 
screenings at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m., said Joshua Wilson, the pro-gram coordinator of GatorNights.
Wilson said RUB Entertain-
ment was notiﬁ  ed about the spe-cial screening through promoters who were looking to get a word in about their show. They knew the Reitz Union screened movies, 
he said. 
Columbia Records, which 
produces the soundtrack for the 
show, is also providing giveaways 
at the event.
“They connected with us to see 
if that is something we would be 
interested in,” Wilson said, “and, us knowing that a lot of students 
watch the show, and that it’s had 
a lot of success, we said that we would be interested in showing the premiere.”
The show features a mixture of 
suspense, romance and violence, and millions tune in each week to 
watch what unfolds.
 Among the show’s Gator fans 
is 20-year-old UF English junior 
Mariah Tennell.
 “I think my favorite character 
is Cookie because she wants her family, but she doesn’t… want to be robbed from what she had worked on, too,” Tennell said.
Cookie’s strength as a mother, 
potential lover and businessper-son is a positive ﬁ  gure to Tennell.
Attending Friday night’s pre-
miere might draw a few to the 
Lyons den. 
Twenty-year-old telecommu-
nication junior Clara Lavarre is 
among those who got hooked —all thanks to Twitter.
“I’d see people live-tweeting 
and active on Twitter and every-one’s like, ‘You need to watch this; it’s such a good show,’” La-
varre said, “and I was like, ‘Uh, 
I’m not really like a TV person,’ and then once I got up to episode three I was like, ‘Wow, this is re-ally well-written.’”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured above is the ofﬁ  cial season two artwork of Fox’s “Empire. ” A special preview of the new 
season will be held at the Reitz Union on Friday. Season two will air Wednesday on Fox.
Fox’s ‘Empire’ to make special premiere at GatorNightsBy Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Have you been shufﬂ  ing through the 
same ﬁ  ve songs for the past year? If so, it 
may be time to broaden your aural hori-
zons and take a sip from this here foun-
tain of tunes. Here are a few songs from the past two weeks that may tickle your fancy headphones.
Keith Richards“Love Overdue” – Sept. 11As the title suggests, it’s been awhile 
since we’ve heard a solo track from the 
Rolling Stones god and guitarist Keith 
Richards: 23 years in fact. But in recent months, the 71-year-old has dropped jew-els across the web and hinted at the release 
of a new solo project, “Crosseyed Heart.” 
On his latest emerald offering, “Love Over-due,” Richards ditches the dark-basement sound he helped shovel to the masses decades ago. Instead, he takes a trip to a 
beach-side bungalow on the coast of the 
Virgin Islands. With happy horns to lead the way, Richards plays a tropical reggae rhythm on his guitar, characterized by off-
set strumming, as he sings a song of love and longing. At this point in his career, it 
seems as though the rock hall of famer just 
wants to create music that makes him hap-
py: to hell with the expectations. His new album is set to drop on Friday.
Jay Rock
“Vice City” – Sept. 11
California-born rapper Jay Rock has 
been on the back burner for quite some time. An original member of Black Hippy, 
a hip-hop ensemble comprised of rappers 
Kendrick Lamar, Schoolboy Q and Ab-Soul, Rock made a name for himself in 2011 with the release of his debut album, “Follow Me Home,” but has since shared 
the spotlight with his friends, almost to a 
fault. Rock’s latest album, “90059,” is just the second of his career. On “Vice City,” a track from the album, Rock reunites Black 
Hippy for one of the strangest four and 
a half minutes I’ve experienced all year. Throughout the song, the four rappers all share the same rhythmic delivery, ending each line with a sluggish emphasis on the 
last couple syllables. This “ﬂ  ow” has never 
been tried before from what I know, and most rappers today wouldn’t even fathom changing their trademark styles to accom-modate one weird, conceptual verbal pat-tern. But somehow, the guys make it work, 
each taking the ﬂ  ow and making it their 
own. The result is an oddly catchy banger full of braggadocio and mystery.  
The Libertines
“You’re My Waterloo” – Sept. 11
Formed in London in 1997, indie rock 
quartet The Libertines broke up in 2004, reportedly the result of substance addiction 
and internal conﬂ  ict in the band. The boys 
reunited six years later to play a handful of shows, but it wasn’t until 2014 that they headed to the studio to once again record together – for the ﬁ  rst time in almost a de-
cade. “You’re My Waterloo,” a song from 
the band’s latest album, is a piano ballad unlike most. Far from typical ballads we know, love and cringe at, The Libertines 
leave the G-rated material at home. They 
sing about lovers with knives and fumigat-ing demons with cigarettes, all while main-taining a demeanor ﬁ  t for the slow dance at a bat mitzvah. The voice of Carl Barat 
reminds my ears of the lead singer of Arctic 
Monkeys; both have a British accent and a syrupy but enunciated delivery. History lesson: The Battle of Waterloo was fought in 1815 and ended Napoleon’s rule as em-peror of the French; the British helped.
T.I. 
“Check, Run It” – Sept. 11This goes out to all those people who 
are mad, sad or embarrassed that student 
government booked rapper T.I. for Gator 
Growl. To those who contend he hasn’t been relevant since 2006, well, you’re not wrong. Booking a rapper – in 2015 – who 
we all loved in middle school was deﬁ  nite-
ly the wrong move, but at least T.I. heard your grunts and groans. On Sept. 11, he released a new EP full of some actually de-cent songs. One of these, “Check, Run It,” 
demonstrates T.I.’s evolution, but it also 
shows him reaching back to the roots that won him three Grammys once upon a time. The chorus is catchy and lively, while the 
verses are conﬁ  dent, commendable and 
refreshing. T.I. doesn’t sound like an old man struggling to keep up with the trends; he sounds like he’s taking the trends and tweaking them himself. Good news: Now 
that T.I. has some new material to perform, 
we won’t be stuck listening to “Whatever You Like” and “Why You Wanna” for 30 minutes straight.
ff the Record
 “I think my favorite 
character is Cookie because 
she wants her family, but she 
doesn’t… want to be robbed 
from what she had worked 
on, too.”
Mariah T ennell
UF English juniorTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
It’s an app called Lawnmower, and it has 
nothing to do with mowing lawns.
The idea sprouted from three former UF 
students: Alex Sunnarborg, 24, Pieter Gor-
sira, 24 and Patrick Archambeau, 24. With 
Lawnmower, users are able to save money 
and invest in bitcoin, a decentralized digital currency.
Lawnmower launched in April on the 
App Store. After users log in with a Coinbase account — a virtual wallet where bitcoin is stored — and a bank account or credit card number, the app tracks transactions and rounds them to the nearest dollar. The dif-
ference, or spare change, is saved and, as it 
accumulates, is automatically converted into bitcoin, according to the app’s website lawn-mower.io.
It’s simpler than it sounds.“If you went to Starbucks and spent $3.25 
on coffee, essentially what Lawnmower does is it’ll see your transaction and on the app dashboard you’ll see $3.25 on Starbucks, and 
then the remaining $0.75 is spare change 
which will be used into buying bitcoin,” Sun-narborg said.
Once the saved spare change reaches a 
minimum of $4, the app uses Coinbase to convert the dollars into bitcoin. Currently, one bitcoin is worth about $230, and $4 is equal to about 0.02 bitcoin.
Coinbase is considered one of the largest, most trusted and best-funded U.S.-based bit-coin wallets, according to Archambeau.  
“Coinbase is a great way for new people to 
get involved in bitcoin because they help han-dle the secure storage of your bitcoin funds, which is something that can get complicated quickly if someone new to bitcoin attempts to handle that on their own,” Archambeau said.
Bitcoin is new-age currency and an easy 
alternative to cash, according to Sunnarborg. For him and the other co-founders, bitcoin is the future.
“Bitcoin has the potential to remix every-
thing we know about ﬁ  nance,” said Gorsira. “I can’t say what the future holds, but it’s one of the most exciting experiments of our time.”    
Lawnmower allows users to get a preview 
of the bitcoin world without feeling intimidat-ed and allows users to control the amount of spare change they want invested into bitcoin.
The three classmates had always intended 
to start something together, but they weren’t sure where and how to start.
“I met both of my current co-founders at 
UF and throughout our time there we were always scheming and thinking of new ideas for companies that we wanted to start,” Ar-chambeau said.
When the Florida-born trio left UF, they 
each worked in separate ﬁ  elds. Sunnarborg worked at Raymond James ﬁ  nancial advis-ers, Archambeau was a java developer and Gorsira worked at Amazon. However, there was still an idea lingering.Last October, Gorsira attended the Mon-
ey20/20 conference in Las Vegas. There, de-velopers spent 48 hours coding, designing and developing a product to later pitch to the judges and compete for prizes.
“I’ve competed in a lot of hackathons be-
fore, but this time I did something different. About 10 hours before the pitching, I decided to post to Reddit about it. The idea actually got a lot of attention,” Gorsira said.
The idea was Lawnmower.“I eventually gave my pitch and unfortu-
nately wasn’t selected as a ﬁ  nalist. I knew, though, based on the response I got online 
that this was something worth developing 
further,” Gorsira said.
And he did, along with his former class-
mates. Last January, the three traded in their full-time jobs for a pair of book bags and a one-way trip to San Francisco, the tech capi-tal of the world, Sunnarborg said.
Once on the West Coast, they got accepted 
into Boost VC, a startup accelerator program 
“dedicated to ﬁ  nding and funding passionate 
entrepreneurs who are using emerging tech-nologies to build great ideas,” according to the program’s website.“They give you food, place to live, place 
to work and a little bit of money so you focus for a few months,” Sunnarborg said. “At that point was when we really made Lawnmower ‘cause we didn’t really have a product up un-til then.”
Fast forward to ﬁ  ve months after the app 
launched, and now CoinDesk, Fortune Maga-zine, CoinBuzz and Bitcoin Magazine are talking about it.
Right now, the app is giving $5 in bitcoin 
to all new users in an effort to get people to try the app.
“The purpose of our app is to get people 
to try bitcoin and we ﬁ  gured, well, it may be 
easier to just give them some,” Sunnarborg 
said.
So what’s in the name? Sunnarborg gave 
two reasons behind why the investment app is named after a landscaping tool.
“You’re running over your recent transac-
tions with a lawnmower and clipping the top off that you can save into your bitcoin au-tomatically...The real reason is when Pieter 
came up with the idea he was listening to a 
dubstep song called ‘Lawnmower,’” Sunnar-borg said.
The song, “The Lawnmower,” is by Ary-
ay.
The trio continues to work toward im-
proving the app and has already started to see it pay off.
“Lawnmower was born at the Mon-
ey20/20 hackathon, and now this year I’ll be speaking at the conference itself. It’s insane what can happen in just a year,” Gorsira said.
The app is available on the App Store and 
Google Play.
Three UF alumni develop investment app Lawnmower
By Mariana Riquezes
Avenue Writer
The Sweeplings are coming to 
Gainesville to support their newly released record, “Rise and Fall,” and the acoustic duo has an unconven-tional story as to how they came to 
be.
Show doors will open at 8 p.m. 
Thursday at High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave. Tickets can be purchased for $10 at the door or $8 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com. There is also a $3 under-21 fee at the door, according to Ticketﬂ  y.
Vocalist and pianist Cami Brad-
ley, a Washington native, was a con-testant on the famous variety show “America’s Got Talent” in 2013. With a strong, distinctive voice paired with polished piano skills, Bradley ﬁ  nished the competition in sixth place.
Meanwhile, vocalist and guitarist 
Whitney Dean’s wife was watching 
the talent show in their hometown 
of Huntsville, Alabama, when she decided to email Bradley in hopes of getting the two artists to collaborate. Dean’s wife persistently emailed Bradley, regardless of her polite de-clines, anticipating that she would change her mind.
Eventually, Bradley called Dean 
and, after more than an hour of speaking on the phone, Bradley in-vited Dean to ﬂ  y out to Washington to meet in person.
“That’s when the spark really 
happened,” Bradley said. “(It) was during that time where we were able to play music together and write and be face to face and ﬁ  gured out that there was chemistry there.”
Despite living on opposite sides 
of the country, the duo gets together every so often to let creative juices ﬂ  ow. From ﬁ  lming music videos, writing and producing new songs, and organizing tour dates, The Sweeplings have mastered the craft of working on a tight deadline.
Both Bradley and Dean grew up 
surrounded by music due to the strong inﬂ  uence music had on each of their parents’ lives.
Dean explains how the root of 
their music is the idea of being able to “come across with our sound re-ally well with just the two of us.”
“And our main goal and focus 
at the recordings, down to playing live, is that it’s four elements,” Dean said. “It’s our two voices put togeth-er and then her playing the piano and me playing the guitar.”
The duo has an individual sound 
and characteristic to their music and lyrics that originated from a mixture 
of many different music styles — 
like folk and pop.
Dean even described the two as 
chameleons.
“We soak up a lot of music and 
information, and then we just be-come this new crazy color, musical-ly, of whatever we (intake),” Dean said.
Bradley added they aren’t focus-
ing on a speciﬁ  c genre.
“We really just want to be our-
selves,” she said.
The band places importance on 
having strong vocals paired with sweeping melodies during their live shows.
Some of their new songs, which 
they will be playing Thursday, came about from the turbulence each of them had experienced this past year.
Show-goers can expect fresh and 
current music, as “Rise and Fall” was written in only eight months.
According to Pat Lavery, owner 
of local booking company Glory Days Presents, the band has re-
ceived a lot of coverage from NPR 
lately.
Life, love and loss are some of 
the main themes that can be heard throughout their album, and “Rise and Fall” is “based around the ebbs and ﬂ  ows of life,” Dean said.Acoustic duo The Sweeplings to perform at High Dive 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Sweeplings, an acoustic duo with an unusual origin story, will perform Thursday at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. 
Name inspired by dubstep song
“Bitcoin has the potential to remix 
everything we know about inance. I 
can’t say what the future holds, but it’s 
one of the most exciting experiments 
of our time.”    
Pieter Gorsira
UF alumTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
Documentary Filmmaking ProjectTeam or individual to film and produce a documentary on the life and comeback of a veteran mma fighter, think "smashing ma-chine" meets "cinderella man", for more info email showtimesportsmngmt@gmail.com   9-18-15-6-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD MONDAY, SEPT. 21, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
9-18-15-5-14Wanted: Computer ProgrammerFamiliar with PHP and data collectionswww.goldendomefund.orgcall for more info. 229-247-5285    9-18-15-5-14
Middle School Tutor/Organizational helper Wanted to assist 2 or 3 times a week, pri-marily with organizational skills and some general tutoring. The tutoring is for 2 middle school girls attending Florida Virtual School full-time. Hours are flexible, one or 2 hours a sitting. $15-$20 an hour. Contact kelley.phil-lips@gmail.com    9-18-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
Remove Unwanted Hair Today
Half-off laser hair removal50% off your first treatment352-333-FACE (352-333-3223)Visit www.gainesvilleflderm.com    9-18-15-5-15
Value Cleaning Starting @ $59
Eco-Friendly Product Option
Well established company in Gainesville. 
Call or text 352-214-9597    9-22-15-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Sincerity Community Care
do you need companion care or home maker 
services for you or a loved one contact us 
at 3523010249 or sinceritycare@gmail.com    
9-17-15-5-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!FREE FLIRTY CHAIR DANCE CLASS
This Thursday, September 17th, 6pm. The 
Lingerie Company 2614 SW 34th St. Call 
today to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    
9-17-15-5-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
15 Services 18 Personals 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 20 Event NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
After a seven game road trip, 
Coach Mary Wise and Florida's volleyball team return to Gainesville for their home opener tonight at 7. Read the story on pg. 18. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at@alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
Florida’s road to return to Omaha has 
been revealed.
The Gators, led by ninth-year head coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan, released their 56-game 
schedule for the 2016 season Wednesday. 
Florida’s non-conference schedule in-
cludes contests against eight Florida teams, including home-and-home series against Central Florida and North Florida as well as three midweek contests against Florida State.
After starting the year on Feb. 19 with a 
five-game homestand, UF hits the road for a three-game series against Miami, its first of four matchups against teams that played in 
the 2015 College World Series.
Highlighting UF’s Southeastern Confer-
ence Schedule are home series with Georgia 
(April 22-24) and Vanderbilt (May 13-15) and a road series with LSU (May 19-21) to 
conclude regular-season play.
The Gators finished 52-18 last season, 
won the SEC Tournament and reached the 
College World Series for the first time since 
2012.
Florida returns all four 
of its starting pitchers from last year: rising ju-
niors Logan Shore (11-6, 
2.72 ERA), A.J. Puk (9-4, 
3.81 ERA) and Dane Dun-ning (5-2, 4.03 ERA) as well as rising sophomore 
Alex Faedo (6-1, 3.23 ERA).
The Gators also return six players who 
started at least 39 games, most notably All-Americans JJ Schwarz and Buddy Reed. Schwarz led the Gators with 18 home runs, 
73 RBIs and a .629 slugging percentage in 
his freshman season, while Reed had a team-best 86 hits and a team-high-tying five triples.
Florida announces hosts for Gators Madness
UF announced Wednesday that Florida alums Jenn Brown and Titus O'Neil 
will co-host Gators Madness, set for Oct. 2 at 9 p.m. in  the O'Connell Center. Former Florida basketball players Jason Williams and Lee Humphrey are scheduled to attend. AHMAD FULWOOD 
SEEKING CONTINUED 
IMPROVEMENT AS 
FLORIDA OPENS SEC PLAY.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
For a 6-foot-4, 211 pound wide 
receiver, catching a screen pass 
and taking it eight yards isn’t nor-
mally a big deal.
But for Ahmad Fulwood, it’s a 
small sign of progress.
The junior and former four-
star recruit only hauled in two 
passes for 15 yards on Saturday, but it was his second catch that drew the attention of his head coach.
On the play late in the second 
quarter, Fulwood secured a quick sideline pass from quarterback Treon Harris, darted upfield and 
proceeded to bulldoze the on-
coming defender as he went out of bounds.
While it was only a modest 
gain, the effort and tenacity im-
pressed head coach Jim McEl-
wain, who more than two weeks ago called out the junior for not playing up to his physical poten-
tial.
“When he took that thing and really said, ‘I’m not going to be 
denied,’ he really took it to the defender,” McElwain said. “It was great. And we need 
him. We do. And so, there again, I think that was proof.”For the last two years, Florida 
has been looking for some form of proof that Fulwood can live up to the high expectations he came out of high school with.
He failed to do so in his first 
two seasons, only managing to catch 29 passes for 326 yards — a 
low number even if it were just 
for one season. 
And while 14 different receiv-
ers caught passes in Florida's sea-
son opener against New Mexico 
State, Fulwood was not one of them. 
Instead, he dropped a sure-fire 
touchdown pass from quarter-
back Will Grier near the end of 
the first half. 
But McElwain believes the 
coaching staff can bring more out 
of him this year, and he’s made it 
clear to Fulwood that he expects to see results.
“Me and coach Mac have talk-
ed about it,” Fulwood said. 
“I took it to heart just because 
of the simple fact that I know where he’s coming from. He wants the best out of me and he 
wants every single weapon I have 
to offer. 
“So I took it to heart and I said, 
‘I have to do better.’ That’s what I was trying to do in Game 2 and from now on.”
With more weapons being uti-
lized this season in McElwain's UF receiver hoping to build on small spark from ECU game
O'Sullivan
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Despite the start Florida’s tight ends 
have had this year, no one is talking about the person coaching the position: Greg 
Nord. 
The Gators’ tight ends have found a 
revival of sorts in head coach Jim McEl-
wain’s offense and Nord, who has been coaching since 1979 when he started out as a grad assistant at Kentucky, is one of 
the reasons why they’ve had early success. 
Nord also coached one of the most pro-
ductive tight ends in NCAA history in Ibn 
Green when Nord was coaching at Louis-
ville.  
Green was a two-time All-American 
and at the time, set the NCAA record for 
most receptions in a career for a tight end. Nord said the tight ends on the Gators’ 
roster are as athletic as the ones he’s 
coached in the past like Green. 
“I’ve been fortunate in my career that 
I’ve had a chance to coach a lot of great 
tight ends, to be honest about it, and they 
compare favorably with some of the good 
ones,” Nord said.
Through the first two games, Florida’s 
tight ends have caught 11 passes for 200 yards and three touchdowns. 
But Jake McGee hasn’t had the opportu-
nities C’yontai Lewis and DeAndre Gools-
by have had, as he’s the only one without Tight end coach helping 
revive position for GatorsBASEBALL
UF unveils 2016 scheduleJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ahmad Fulwood catches a pass from quarterback Will Grier during Fall camp on Aug. 8 at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 19"I've been fortunate in my career that 
I've had a chance to coach a lot of great 
tight ends.
Greg Nord
UF tight ends coachBy Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
There’s no place like home. 
The fifth-ranked UF volley-
ball team opened its season 
with a seven game road trip that 
spanned nearly two weeks and in-cluded stops in Washington D.C., Texas and Hawaii. 
Now, Florida returns to 
Gainesville to play its home open-er against St. John’s (9-3) tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center. 
The Gators (6-1) faced strong 
competition, notching a 3-0 win over No. 19 Oregon and a 3-1 vic-tory over No. 2 Texas. 
Their lone defeat came at the 
hands of No. 12 Hawaii, losing 3-2.  
Off the court, the extended 
time away from Gainesville has proven to be a challenge for the 
players, who have had to simul-
taneously juggle volleyball and school work . 
“It’s definitely been busy just 
because all we’ve done is travel and play matches away, so now we get to come back, everything calms down a little,” sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan 
said.The return home couldn’t have 
come at a more opportune time.
“I think it’ll really hit us when 
we go into the O’Connell Center,” 
coach Mary Wise said. 
“(When  you’re) wearing Flor-
ida on your back, you’re always going to get everyone’s best shot. Well, magnify that by 10 when 
you’re on the road.
“I think our 
team is really excited to play in front of the 
Gator fans.”
The return to 
familiar territo-
ry is something the players have 
been looking forward to for some 
time.
“I’m definitely excited,” Alhas-
san said. 
“All we’ve been doing is play-
ing away, so just finally getting to 
be back in the O-Dome and play our first match in front of Gator Nation, just really pumped.”
While the road trip was suc-
cessful, senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino said that spending so much time away has made the team appreciate the little nuances 
of being home. 
“Just so excited to be back like in our area, our gym, with our 
fans,” Dagostino said. 
“Just such a good feeling and 
being comfortable knowing where everything is and not being com-pletely out of our element.” 
The return home is especially 
meaningful for the seniors, who were unsure if they would ever get the opportunity to play at the O’Connell Center again. 
The original plan was for 
O’Connell Center renovations to begin in March 2015 and be com-pleted around the beginning of 
the 2016 Spring semester, displac-
ing the team this season and forc-ing them to play at nearby Santa Fe College. 
But when the renovations 
were postponed for a year, the volleyball team got its 2015 home schedule back.
“Our fans are awesome. The 
atmosphere, everything going on in the O-Dome is just so exciting,” senior defensive specialist Nikki O’Rourke said. 
“It was definitely fun play-
ing on the road. We got to play in some awesome gyms at Texas and Hawaii, both huge crowds and very cool atmospheres to be 
playing in, but I’m very happy to 
be home.” 18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
UF cross country holds its lone home meet 
of the season Saturday, and the first Gators to 
cross the finish line are shaping up to be dif-ferent from last year. 
On the men’s side, last year’s top finisher 
at the Mountain Dew Invitational for Florida was then-freshman Thomas Howell. 
With a fifth place finish overall, Howell 
led the Gators to a second place finish behind Georgia Tech. 
This year, the would-be sophomore will 
not race for the Gators after deciding to leave the program during the offseason. 
Cross country coach Paul Spangler’s only 
comment on the matter was that Howell “chose not to run anymore.”
Regardless, Howell would have been hard-
pressed to pull out another top finish due to the returns of redshirt seniors Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia, both of whom sat out last year to preserve an extra year of eligibility. 
Garcia ran in the Mountain Dew Invitation-
al last year as an unattached runner, meaning 
that his score did not count for the team.
Garcia finished in third, and both he and 
Clark are poised to be up there again this year 
based on their finishes at the season’s first — and so far only — meet, the Covered Bridge Open.
Junior Carlos Miranda, who placed sev-
enth at Covered Bridge only 12 seconds be-hind Clark and Garcia, said having the two of them back is not only going to help because of their speed, but also because their presence is revitalizing the whole team.
“The team is more alive and more awak-
ened now that we have (them) back,” he said.
As for the meet in general, Miranda said 
that the plan is pretty much to replicate the team’s performance from two weeks ago.“I just want all of us to come in together as 
a group just like we did a few weeks ago and pull out the win,” he said.
For the women, the team will be hoping for 
a resurgence from sophomore Lauren Brasure. 
At last year’s Mountain Dew Invitational, 
not only was Brasure best on the team, but she was the best overall, setting a UF Program 5K course record (16:45.93) en-route to lead-
ing the Gators to a first place finish. 
This year, it doesn’t look like she’s going to replicate that success. 
At Covered Bridge, she finished ninth on 
the team, nearly two minutes behind team-
best finisher Maria Larsen. 
After that meet, Spangler said that she 
wasn’t where she needed to be coming out of summer. 
However, he likes what he’s seen from Bra-
sure in the practices that have followed.
“She’s looked better,” Spangler said. 
“She’s gonna continue to get fitter, and so I’m optimistic that as we get to the championship races later in the year, she’ll be where she wants to be.”
Aside from Brasure, another name to watch 
on the women’s team is Taylor Tubbs.
Tubbs finished second on the team at Cov-
ered Bridge and fifth overall with a time of 
18:03.44, a mere four seconds behind Larsen. 
Echoing the sentiments of Miranda, Tubbs 
plans to run as a group with the team’s current 
top three (Larsen, Becky Greene, and herself).
“The plan is to stick together as long as 
possible,” she said. 
Like Miranda, Tubbs is also optimistic 
about victory. 
“We definitely wanna win,” Tubbs said. 
“I think we should win, we can win, we’re 
expected to win.”
The Gators will be without their fifth place 
finisher at Covered Bridge in freshman Caitlin 
McQuilkin-Bell, who is in Wales represent-ing her native country of New Zealand in the junior World Mountain Running Champion-ships. 
The Mountain Dew Invitational begins at 
7 a.m. on Saturday at the Mark Bostick Golf Course, with the men racing in an 8K at 7:55 and the women in a 5K at 8:30.UF cross country teams to race in Mountain Dew Invitational
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mackenzie Dagostino sets the ball during Florida’s 3-1 win against 
Miami on Dec. 6 in the O’Connell Center. 
Wise
Finally back in Gainesville, UF 
volleyball poised for home openerJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Carlos Miranda races during the 2013 Southeastern Conference Cross Country 
Championships at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
The women won last year THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
WOMEN'S TENNIS
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
 
Coming off an Elite Eight finish 
last season, the Florida women’s 
tennis team will have its first op-
portunity to break through in the 2015-16 season on Friday. 
The Gators will head to Dur-
ham, North Carolina, for the Duke Invite, and head coach Roland Thornqvist has a message for his team: progress over perfection. 
“When we go to a tournament 
we go to win it,” Thornqvist said. 
“There’s no question about it, 
but at the same time if we don’t win then we’re going to get some-
thing out of it.”
The team has been preparing 
not only on the court, but also in 
the weight room. 
Thornqvist believes that this is 
one of the better teams in terms of practicing that he has seen in his 15 years at Florida. 
“They’ve been excellent when 
it’s been on our time, and they’ve been doing better on their own,” Thornqvist said.
The Gators will be led by lone senior Brianna Morgan who fin-
ished the 2014-2015 season at the 
No. 3 spot with an overall record of 17-4. 
Sophomores Brooke Austin 
and Josie Kuhlman return to the court after a summer of tourna-ment play. 
Austin, who was named 2015 
Southeastern Conference Player 
of the Year and SEC Freshman of 
the Year, took the singles title at the Intercollegiate Tennis Asso-ciation National Summer Cham-
pionship. 
Kuhlman took the doubles title 
at the Fort Worth Pro Classic with 
California’s Maegan Manasse.  
“They seem to be picking up 
right where they left off at the end of last year,” Thornqvist said. 
“We have high expectations 
for both of them, and rightfully 
so, they’re very talented and 
work very hard here.”
During the offseason, the 
Gators added sophomore Anna Danilina from Moscow, Russia. 
Danilina reached the semifinal 
round in doubles at the 2012 US Open Junior Tennis Champion-ships. Danilina has been working 
hard on her craft to prepare for this weekend’s tournament — considering she could see action as early as the season opener.
 If previous seasons are any 
indication, Danilina could see ac-tion in her sophomore year. 
Thornqvist is eager to see how 
she will react to playing against 
players in a different college ten-
nis environment.
With the entire team returning 
from last year, and with only one 
senior on the roster, the Gators 
will again utilize the young play-ers. 
Thornqvist believes the team 
will show a greater sense of confi-
dence because they already know 
what to expect.
“The best thing about fresh-
men is that they become sopho-
mores,” Thornqvist said. 
"The added maturity of return-
ing and knowing what’s around 
the bend everyday I think that’s been good for our sophomores. 
"You can tell they’re more re-
laxed, calm, and more confident because they know what we’re all about.”UF to open season at Duke Invite
Alligator File Photo
Brianna Morgan awaits a serve during Florida's 4-0 win against 
Maryland on Jan. 25 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
a touchdown grab in the first two games.
However, Nord did tease on Wednes-
day that there’s been a play implemented 
this week to get McGee involved in the of-
fense.  
“There’s something in the game plan 
this week that’s going when we get it 
called," Nord said, "and it’s the coverage 
we’re expecting y’all be talking about it next week.” 
Hardin struggling with 
consistency:  Austin Hardin continued 
his up-and-down performances against East Carolina on Saturday. 
After making both of his field goal 
attempts in the season-opener, the Atlanta native missed two field goals against the Pirates.
Hardin is now 14-27 in his career in 
field goal attempts and has struggled with kicks from long distances as he’s just 4-of-13 from kicks 40 yards and beyond. 
But Nord, who is also the special teams coordinator, said Hardin has to live up to the old cliché that kickers have to have short-term memories.
“What you’ve got to do is forget the 
kick you just missed and do what you do right every time, rather than try to fix just went wrong the last time,” Nord said. 
“What happens to you is you start over-
compensating.”
While Hardin has continued his strug-
gles kicking field goals, one thing he's im-proved on is kicking the ball out of the end 
zone during kickoffs. 
After having just 38 touchbacks on 121 
attempts the past two seasons, Hardin al-
ready has 13 touchbacks in 17 attempts 
through two games.
Hardin said Nord has allowed him to 
show off his strong leg, something the pre-
vious coaching staff didn’t allow him to do.
“He’s kept open conversations about 
what my strengths are and what I can do,” Hardin said. 
“Something that he’s really allowed me 
to do is showcase my leg strength. We’ve worked on hitting a lot of touchbacks this year.”
Alex Anzalone update:  Coach Jim 
McElwain confirmed on Wednesday that starting linebacker Alex Anzalone will be 
out for the Kentucky game after injuring 
his right shoulder against ECU. 
It’s the same shoulder Anzalone hurt 
during the 2013 season.  
“That’s a big loss. I mean that guy’s a 
good player. We need to get him back,” McElwain said. 
“That will be one of those deals, you 
know, as it goes down the road, we’ll see 
kind of where it’s at.”NOTEBOOK,  from pg17UF's kicker hasn't made field goals consistently
offense, Fulwood said he realized he needs 
to make effort plays like Saturday’s screen pass to stand out.
“The big play ability, every receiver that 
comes here has that big play ability,” Ful-wood said. 
“So the coaches know that. They are 
looking for that guy who can fight for those extra yards.
“You can’t coach effort. It’s just a sim-
ple fact of want to. When they see some-one like that who wants to get it, from all 
our guys, it just excites them.”
At this point in his career, Fulwood isn’t 
trying to live up to expectations anymore. 
Instead, he just wants to experience 
the feeling of making plays and getting hit 
again. 
It's a feeling that has eluded him during 
his struggles.
Plowing into the defender Saturday 
night was his first chance to seek real con-tact in a long time, he said, and he hopes he doesn’t have to wait as long for the chance to do it again.
“I just want the ball in my hands,” Ful-
wood said. 
“I want to help my team win. Those are 
the two things I want the most. The past is past and I can only change what’s going to 
happen in the future.”FOOTBALL,  from pg17He failed to 
impress in first 
two seasons
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Austin Hardin kicks a field goal during Florida's 61-13 win against New Mexico 
State on Sept. 5 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
MIND OF MAMINAKIS
Allen Iverson is ofﬁ  cially eligible to be 
elected to the NBA Hall of Fame as 
early as 2016. The Hall of Fame made 
the announcement on Friday that it would be disregarding Iverson’s short 
amount of time playing in Turkey in 2010-11, 
making him eligible for the Hall of Fame’s next 
class earlier than previously expected, accord-ing to NBA.com’s Scott Howard-Cooper.
Iverson’s 14-year resume on the court 
speaks for itself, and there is no reason he shouldn’t be a ﬁ  rst-ballot Hall of Famer in 2016.The 40-year-old, scrappy bad 
boy from Hampton, Virginia, 
was known around the NBA for 
a number of things: his attitude, his size, his nasty crossover and his displeasure for speaking about 
practice with the media to name 
a few. 
“We’re talkin’ about practice!”But off the court, Iverson has 
been in the public eye since high school for being a trouble-maker. He was the focus of a highly publicized court case after his involvement in a bowling al-
ley brawl, a case that was docu-
mented in ESPN ﬁ  lm’s “No Cross-
over: The Trial of Allen Iverson” in 2010. 
After putting that behind him, 
Iverson had publicized issues with alcohol and ﬁ  nancial trouble while playing in the NBA that have followed him since his re-tirement. 
A recent book written by Kent Babb sug-
gested Iverson was drunk during his famous 2002 “practice” rant.
That is all irrelevant, though, when it comes 
to the Hall of Fame conversation. 
Simply put, Allen Iverson is one of the best 
players in the history of the NBA.
The six-foot guard never ceased to amaze 
when it came to putting the ball in the basket.
With stints in Philadelphia, Denver, Detroit 
and Memphis, Iverson, the ﬁ  rst overall pick of 
the 1996 NBA Draft, was an 11-time All-Star 
and led the league in scoring four times. 
Read the rest of the story online at www.
alligator.org.Allen Iverson deserves to be in the Hall of Fame despite checkered past
Alex 
Maminakis
twitter: @alexmaminakis