By Kayley Holloway
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health will give students 
and Gainesville residents an-
other health care option.
On Monday, UF Health and 
CareSpot Express Healthcare opened a third Gainesville ur-gent care location in the new 
Archer Centro West complex, 
located in the 3500 and 3600 blocks of Archer Road across from Butler Plaza.  
The location was chosen 
because residents in the South-
west corner of Gainesville 
didn’t have adequate access to local urgent-care physicians, said Paul Dickison, vice presi-
dent of marketing for CareSpot.
CareSpot’s goal is to give 
convenient health care to its patients every day of the week, 
and it is open from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m., he said. CareSpot part-
nered with UF Health in Febru-ary 2009.
“It’s all about coordinating 
care and trying to better serve 
the community,” Dickison said.
It has two other locations in 
Gainesville, one in Ayers Medi-
cal Plaza 720 SW Second Ave., 
and another at 3925 NW 43rd 
St., he said.
Dickison said CareSpot had 
been looking into getting its new location for about a year. 
The location is leased, and 
with the equipment and other costs the building will cost be-tween $600,000 and $800,000, 
he said.
All three CareSpot facilities 
can accommodate about 60 pa-tients a day, said Berna Vlacos, 
a medical assistant at the new 
Archer location. At the new 
CareSpot, about 15 patients have come in each day this week.
CareSpot expects to see more 
UF students from apartment complexes in the area, said Matthew Galatowitsch, a regis-trar at the new location.
UF communication sciences 
and disorders senior Annelise 
Gerardi has used CareSpot in 
the past. 
She said she’s looking for-
ward to the new location be-
cause she doesn’t have a prima-
ry-care physician.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 33 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
Sophomore setter ready to step up 
for UF volleyball
With Mackenzie Dagostino out with a concussion,
Abby Detering is set to make an impact, pg. 17
UF awarded grant to study plastic in water 
samples
Products such as face wash and deodorant can pollute water, pg 3
Check out the Avenue
Mediocre advice, Nextﬂ  ix drinking game and concerts, pg 9-13The Accessibility Fair takes over the Plaza of the Americas
Check out the photo story, pg 8
By Elena Castello
Alligator Contributing Writer
Disc jockey Anthony Deﬁ  lippo’s chocolate-
meets-vanilla hookah, called “Yoo-hoo-hoo,” 
hits the spot for UF students craving ﬂ  avored tobacco. 
Hookah has been gaining popularity in col-
lege cities across the country, according to the most recent Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report on hookah, published last month. Gainesville is no exception, with three hookah lounges, along with a store that sells personal hookahs, on University Avenue alone.
But the CDC’s report said even after the to-
bacco has passed through the water in a hoo-kah, the smoke still contains cancer-causing 
toxins. 
Alachua County Department of Health 
policy program manager Andrew Romero said 
hookah is a relatively new trend in Gainesville.  At the moment, he said the department is still ﬁ  guring out how to denormalize hookah.
He said hookah bars continuing to open 
near campus will come down to students tak-ing a stand for their health.
“Students and the university will see this as 
an issue,” he said. “(The hookah businesses are) taking college students and selling them a product that isn’t good for them.”
Deﬁ  lippo also works at a hookah lounge on 
University Avenue. He said 80 percent of his Hooked on Hookah 
SEE HOOKAH,  PAGE 4
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Pugh Hall became a forum for po-
litical discussion Wednesday night 
as former U.S. Sen. Alan Simpson, 
R-WY., spoke to a crowd of about 150 students and community members.
Former Gov. Bob Graham, D-FL., 
interviewed Simpson about immigra-tion, campaign ﬁ  nance and youth en-gagement in the political system.
Simpson said there needs to be a 
path for immigrants to get legal status.
“You can’t deport 11 (million) or 
12 million people,” he said.
He said the Republican Party 
doesn’t want to do anything about im-migration.
“You can’t just build a wall,” he 
said.
Nick Natale, 21, attended the talk with his brother Kris Natale, 23. 
Nick Natale, a UF mechanical en-
gineering senior, asked Simpson if he thought there should be more job di-versity among elected ofﬁ  cials. 
“I’ve noticed it’s 
mostly lawyers,” 
Nick Natale said. 
He said he won-
dered what would 
happen if there were more people from science, tech-nology, engineer-ing or math back-
grounds in ofﬁ  ce. 
Simpson said voting is a privilege. 
In Wyoming, he’s tried to start mobi-lizing youths to vote.
“I told the young people to get in-
volved in the game because these old people are going to clean out the trea-sury,” he said, laughing.Former Sen. Alan 
Simpson speaks at UF
Simpson
CAMPUSUF Health and CareSpot partner
SEE CARESPOT,  PAGE 4One opens on Archer
“It’s all about coordinating 
care and trying to better 
serve the community.”
Paul Dickison
vice president of marketing
T aylor Ratliff, a 23-year-old who will return to UF as a histo-
ry senior in the Spring, blows out Gator Mist-ﬂ  avored smoke at Sheesha on Wednesday. Ratcliff said he used to smoke at Sheesha twice a week with friends, but he hadn’t been back in a while because he purchased his own hookah.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pride Awareness Month
Pride Awareness Month at UF 
is the largest student-led cel-
ebration of the LGBTQ+ com-munity. This year, the theme is defiance. Join the celebra-
tion as the organization will 
“Defy the Norm” and make its 
stories count. Visit facebook.com/prideawarenessmonth 
and apply today. Applications 
close Monday at 11:59 p.m.
Student Conduct Committee
Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution in the Dean of Students Office is current-ly seeking undergraduate and graduate student ap-plicants for the 2015-2016 Student Conduct Committee. Applications are due Oct. 16 by 5 p.m. Student Conduct Committee members play a role in educating students about their rights and respon-sibilities as members of the UF community, upholding com-munity behavioral standards and implementing the Student Conduct Code and Honor Code. This is an opportunity to experience the inner work-ings of the student conduct and honor code processes and serve the greater campus com-munity. Interested undergrad-uate and graduate students should visit dso.ufl.edu/sccr/process/student-conduct-com-mittee/. Any questions should be directed to Holly Meadows at 352-392-1261 or Hollym@dso.ufl.edu.
The Mask You Live In
Is American masculinity harm-ing our boys, men and society at large? As part of October’s So Many Ways events, STRIVE (Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education) at GatorWell is screening and discussing the Representation Project’s documentary “The Mask You Live In.”  It fol-lows boys and young men as they struggle to stay true to themselves while negotiating America’s narrow definition of masculinity. The screening and discussion will be in Leigh Hall, Room 207 on Wednesday  from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. For more information, please call Rita Lawrence at 352-273-4452 or go to the Strive UF Facebook page.GLAM Craft Show accepting 
applications
Do you make stuff? GLAM is 
looking for makers who want 
to be a part of the GLAM Craft 
Show on Sunday, Dec. 6. This year, the show is moving to 
downtown Gainesville and 
will feature food trucks and a 
beer tent. Prospective vendors 
should apply online by Oct.  23 at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
She’s the First
She’s the First UF is hosting its first annual #DayOfTheGirlUF summit on Sunday from 9 a.m. 
to 2:30 p.m. in celebration of 
International Day of the Girl 
Child. This event will be a half-day conference made up of speakers, panels and work-
shops. The goal is to bring 
awareness to the community 
about current issues regard-ing women, health, careers, education and more. She’s the First also hopes to make this a day full of learning, empow-erment and celebration. For more details, visit dayofthe-girluf.splashthat.com.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a “Price is Reitz” event on Friday, from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature human bowling, dunk-tank-a-zombie and a sticky wall. GatorNights will also be hosting two showings of the movie "Ant-Man" at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free tacos and nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 cards. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Mid-Autumn Festival show
UF’s Chinese American Student Association and Chinese Student Association are hosting a Mid-Autumn Festival show on Saturday, in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. There will be free food and a variety of perfor-mances featuring talented individuals from UF and the Gainesville community. The show will also feature cultural activities and free raffles. Mid-Autumn is a time to celebrate the harvest, the moon and be-ing with family. The show, “Coming Home: A Journey 
Through China,” will incor-
porate these themes through 
a narrative between perfor-
mances. The show is free and for all ages. Doors open at 6 
p.m., and the show starts at 
6:30 p.m. 
UF School of Theatre + Dance 
Presents “The Drowsy 
Chaperone”
Directed by Tony Mata with 
musical direction by Tony Offerle, this Tony Award-winning musical pays hom-
age to musical comedies of 
America’s Jazz Age. Music, 
laughs and surprises abound when a musical theatre addict puts the needle down on his 
favorite vinyl-cast recording 
of the fictitious 1928 musi-
cal, “The Drowsy Chaperone.” "The Drowsy Chaperone," on stage in UF’s Constans Theatre Oct. 16-25, will make you fall in love with the theater all over again. Performance times are 7:30 p.m. on Oct. 16 — 17 and Oct. 20-24, and at 2 p.m.on Oct. 18 and Oct. 25. Tickets are $13 for UF students, $15 for UF faculty/staff and senior citizens and $18 for the gen-eral public. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu/calendar. Tickets are available through the University Box Office by calling 352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation online using #DrowsyChaperoneUF.
Got something going on? Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 33
HIGH  84° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
  Mia Gettenberg
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
PRODUCTS SUCH AS FACE WASH 
AND DEODORANT CAN HARM THE 
ENVIRONMENT.
By Gabriela Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students’ toothpastes could harm the environment.
With a $17,000 grant, the UF Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences will fund the Florida Microplastic Awareness 
Project, where volunteers will study water samples from local 
areas, said Maia McGuire, an IFAS extension sea grant agent.
The volunteers will ﬁ  nd how many microplastics are 
present along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Microplastics are 
microscopic pieces of plastic, which are typically found in 
personal-care products such as face scrubs, toothpaste and deodorant, McGuire said.
These tiny pieces of plastic are harmful to the environ-
ment, she said. They’re a danger to small animals, especial-
ly those in the oceans. When people rinse off their hygiene 
products, the microplastics go into the oceans where small ocean animals will mistake the plastic for food and eat it.
McGuire said the grant money will come from the Nation-
al Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Marine Debris 
Program.
She said she’s hoping to educate people with the program 
so they will help the environment.
The project will show that when small animals eat the 
microplastics, the plastic ﬁ  lters up through the food chain. 
When people eat large ﬁ  sh that ate smaller ones, they could be eating some of the microplastic, McGuire said.
“People should care because it’s our food, and it’s an envi-
ronment we really care about,” McGuire said.
FMAP will urge people to read the labels on personal-care 
products and avoid those containing polyethylene, which cre-ates microplastics when it breaks down.
UF animal sciences senior Daria Rebbecchi said she’s con-
cerned about microplastics in the environment.
“This is something that’s in our control that we can 
change,” the 21-year-old said.UF awarded grant 
to study plastic in water samples
“People should care because it’s our food, and it’s an 
environment we really care about.”
Maia McGuire
IFAS extension sea grant agentDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff RIGHT:
Naomi Steel, president of CRE-
ATE, blows on puddled water-colors to create a splatter effect on her artwork in McCarty Hall on Wednesday during the club’s Collage Madness event. After a stressful week, Steel said she was ready to paint. “I’m just watercoloring my feelings, ” the 21-year-old UF health science pre-occupational therapy se-nior said.
BELOW:
Kelly Mahoney, a 20-year-old UF religion junior, cuts and pastes photos into a collage on Wednesday. “I ﬁ  gure it will all come together, ” said Mahoney, who described herself as an “art ﬁ  end. ” Her collage’s concept was based on ideas that “pop out at you. ”The 21-year-old said she lives 
near the Ayers Plaza CareSpot but 
would like to go to one that’s less 
crowded.
“Trying to get an appointment 
was probably one of the most dif-
ﬁ  cult things,” she said. “I think a 
new location is worth it.”
Gerardi said she would go to 
the Student Health Care Center, 
but when she’s really sick she feels she gets better care at CareS-
pot.
Vlacos said the business wants 
to better serve the Gainesville 
community.
“That’s why they picked this 
location,” she said. “The other 
two are on the other side of town, 
so this way we can cover all our bases.”
UF history junior Jessica Knee-
land said she’s glad there’s a new location closer to her apart-ment in Magnolia Manor, which is about a ﬁ  ve-minute drive from CareSpot.
“It makes sense that they 
opened one on Archer,” the 20-year-old said. “There’s noth-ing around there.”
CareSpot will host a grand 
opening Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
The ﬁ  rst 175 people to tour the 
facility will receive a care kit with 4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the CareSpot Express Healthcare in Ayers Medical Plaza at 
720 S.W. Second Ave. UF Health and CareSpot opened another loca-tion in Gainesville on the new Archer Centro West complex on Monday.
CARESPOT,  from pg1There will be a grand opening Saturday
CHILDREN WILL GET A 
MAP AND LOOT BAG.
By Aly Gil
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Chick-ﬁ  l-A on Archer 
Road will be ﬁ  lled with small pi-
rates Friday.
The restaurant will host a 
free pirate-themed party from 6 to 8 p.m. Family and friends are invited to bring their children 
ages 12 and under to join Chick-
ﬁ  l-A’s cow mascot, who will be 
dressed as a pirate named Bo-
vine the Black, and participate in the activities of a pirate — one of Chick-ﬁ  l-A’s corporate themes 
for children’s events.
“We’re adding a few things 
this year,” Laura Wisener, the 
unit marketing director for the restaurant, said. She added the 
event is an extension of weekly 
family nights on Tuesdays.
Wisener said the little pirates 
will receive a map and a loot 
bag when they arrive. The maps 
will label the various stations, and the loot bags will be used to collect goodies. The party will have various stations — such 
as face painting — with prizes, 
meal coupons, free cookies and fruit punch for the kids. This 
year’s pirate party will also have 
a bounce house for kids 12 and under.
While the free treats station 
will be for children only, Wi-
sener said everyone — including 
UF and Santa Fe students — is encouraged to dress up.
Wisener estimated this event 
costs Chick-ﬁ  l-A about $400 to $500 in supplies, excluding the paid labor and additional staff the event requires. The core planning of the event began 4 to 
5 months ago but has been on 
the store’s calendar for about a year, she said.
Payton Kotlarz, a 20-year-old 
UF biology junior, said she de-cided to check out the event af-ter she saw some of her friends on Facebook were going. Kotlarz said she has been to Chick-ﬁ  l-
A spirit nights for various local 
schools over the past few years.  
“I know that Chick-ﬁ  l-A does 
a lot of these events with like 
outreach in the community, 
bringing family and friends to-gether, you know, in like cre-ative ways,” she said. “I do a lot with kids, so I thought maybe 
this will be interesting.”   Chick-fil-A to hook 
kids in pirate event
customers are students.
On the weekends, he said about 150 stu-
dents come to his Middle-Eastern-style lounge 
to smoke water pipes that ﬁ  lter tobacco. He said the lounge is almost always packed. 
“People prefer this (hookah) to cigarettes 
and cigars,” Deﬁ  lippo said. 
At the beginning of this month, Mystic To-
bacco hookah lounge at 1219 W. University Ave. opened under new management.  The business was previously managed poorly, said the new owner Ricardo Morales. Now, about 90 percent of its customers are college students, he said. 
At 1029 W. University Ave., Sheesha’s stu-
dent customers make up about 40 percent of business, the owner Amit Patel said.
Modern Age Tobacco at 1122 W. University 
Ave. declined to comment about how many students buy hookah products from the shop.
UF linguistics and East Asian languages and 
literatures junior Jacob Rieke said he smoked at a hookah bar close to Ohio State University, where he studied before transferring to UF last Spring. 
“I was studying Arabic at the time, so I went 
for the culture, too,” the 20-year-old said.
He doesn’t smoke as often now, but he said 
he likes smoking to relax after exams.
Auburn University alumnus Joseph West, 
21, said he smokes hookah socially about once or twice a month. He has visited Kava Bar and Hookah Lounge at 1007 W. University Ave.
“The most fun is the taste and the ﬂ  avors,” 
he said. HOOKAH,  from pg 1Most customers are studentsSANTA FE
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer 
    
Santa Fe College Fine Arts will soon bring 
ancient Greece to Gainesville.
The Fine Arts program will perform “Oedi-
pus at Ichetuckneea,” an adaptation of Sopho-cles’ ancient Greek play “Oedipus the King,” 
from Oct. 15 to 17 at the Santa Fe Fine Arts Hall. 
Prices for the play range from $9 to $15, with Santa Fe students, faculty and staff attending for free with a college ID.
The play is written by Santa Fe theatre pro-
fessor Gregg Jones and English professor Ste-phen Robitaille and will be the pair’s last per-formance before their retirement in the Spring.
“I want to provide a meaningful and last-
ing learning experience for students involved,” Jones said.“The family that creates when mak-ing this play is what I really enjoy most.”
The original play tells a story of a king who 
tries to escape his fate and ignores a plague while doing so. “Oedipus at Ichetuckneea” is about a ruler who ignores the signs Mother Na-ture gives about the contamination of a sacred spring, Robitaille said. The idea of re-telling 
“Oedipus the King” came to Robitaille last sum-
mer when he was thinking of the various envi-ronmental issues Florida faces, he said.
“It’s an adaptation that conveys the story 
into some future dystopic Florida,” Robitaille 
said.
The major plot of “Oedipus the King” will 
remain the same, Jones said, with the language 
and setting serving as the biggest changes.     
“It is entertaining,” he said. “It is stretching 
the boundaries to make a different kind of the-atrical experience for the audience.”
There are more than 50 students involved in 
the production of this play, Jones said.
“I’m just totally in awe in how they can 
bring together costuming, lighting, sound, act-ing – all of these elements in six weeks or less,” Robitaille said.
Tyler Collins, a Santa Fe theater freshman, 
said due to the twist in plot he is more inclined 
to see the play.
“I’m pretty sure it’ll be great,” the 29-year-
old said.A new Santa Fe play brings “Oedipus” to Gainesville
“I want to provide a meaningful and 
lasting learning experience for students 
involved.” 
Gregg Jones
Santa Fe theatre professor
1234 5
1. Hookah Nite Cafe
2. Kava Bar and Hookah Lounge
3. Seesha
4. Modern Age T obacco
5. Mystic T obacco
Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
local man Tuesday morning af-
ter he reportedly called about a 
fake robbery in hopes of getting 
a new door.
At about 10:40 a.m. Tuesday, 
Joshua C. Whitaker, 29, report-
edly called police about someone 
who shattered his girlfriend’s sliding glass door at 7 a.m., ac-cording to a police report.
He said the person supposedly 
entered the apartment, smashed his girlfriend’s cellphone and snatched money, according to the report.
Whitaker told police they heard glass shatter and then voices inside the apartment, ac-cording to the report.
Police interviewed Whita-
ker’s girlfriend, who reportedly 
conﬁ  rmed the story — at ﬁ  rst.
She then 
said the story 
was created to get a new door, which they broke the night 
before after be-
ing locked out, according to the 
report.
Police reported both Whita-
ker and his girlfriend fabricated 
the story, but she was never 
arrested, according to Alachua County court records.Whitaker later told police he 
was being stupid and didn’t wish to say more, according to the re-port. 
This is the second false re-
port in two days after police ar-rested 29-year-old Joshua Porter on Tuesday for reportedly call-ing about two men armed with 
a riﬂ  e who stole his PlayStation, 
which police later found in his trunk.
Whitaker declined to com-
ment. 
Police charged Whitaker with 
making a false report and took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Wednes-
day morning on his own recog-
nizance. Gainesville man reports false 
robbery to replace broken door 
Whitaker
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
DOGS FOR DIABETES 
Two-year-old Marley relaxes outside the Reitz Union on Wednesday 
afternoon. His owner, 20-year-old UF accounting junior Chris Diaz, was there with Alpha Epsilon Delta, a UF pre-health honors society that brought dogs to the North Lawn to play with students and to showcase for canine and human Type-1 diabetes.
THE VOTE WAS 22 TO 16.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
The Santa Fe College Student Senate de-
bated Wednesday evening about a resolution 
to endorse bills in the Florida State Senate and 
House to allow concealed carry on college 
and university campuses.
Sen. Benjamin Myers presented the resolu-
tion to a skeptical chamber during Wednes-
day’s Senate meeting, calling it a “solution” to 
gun violence in the U.S. and a way of prevent-ing mass shootings.“I’m trying to offer a solution,” Myers, 
who also serves as recruitment and training director, said. 
“All I’ve ever heard in the papers, includ-
ing yours even reading it today, was calling us terrorists, gun-owners terrorists, and very not nice things, but those aren’t true,” he said. 
“We have a crisis in this country, I’m trying 
to offer a solution that’s worked in the past.”
The resolution proposed by Myers sup-
ports a state bill and house bill, SB 0068 and HB 4001, which if approved would amend the 
Florida statute prohibiting concealed carry on 
Florida college and university campuses, such as Santa Fe and UF.The chamber voted 22 to 16 on Sen. Tony 
Faieta’s motion to continue discussing the resolution next week.
“I feel like everybody was just a bit unin-
formed,” Faieta said, “myself very included.”
Faieta asked Myers to present a power-
point at the next meeting to better inform the chamber about concealed weapons and gun laws.
Faieta, who is one of several dissenting senators, said he opposes the resolution but is open to changing his mind and supporting the resolution.
Gun laws have been at the forefront of na-
tional debate following the Umpqua Commu-nity College shooting in Oregon last week that left 10 dead and nine injured.
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book said the col-
lege opposes any such legislation.
“We’re not telling you that (allowing con-
cealed carry on campus) is going to keep you safe,” Young Americans for Liberty Sen. Joey 
Bradﬁ  eld, whose club sponsored the resolu-
tion, said. “It’s not a perfect solution, but it’s a solution grounded in reality.”SF Senate discusses and votes on concealed-carry resolution 
“It’s not a perfect solution, but it’s a 
solution grounded in reality.”
Joey Bradfield
Young Americans for Liberty SenatorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Pre-Meds: How are you going to stand out?
It’s a question as harrowing as the MCAT 
itself: How are you going to distinguish yourself?
Competition to get into medical school 
is becoming ﬁ  ercer and ﬁ  ercer. The pre-
scribed track of majoring in biology, doing re-search, volunteering and joining the American 
Medical Student Association just isn’t cutting it 
anymore. More and more, schools are looking for well-rounded applicants with a diverse set of talents and real-world experience.  So I’ll ask again: How are you going to distinguish yourself?
I’m assuming you’re terriﬁ  ed. I am, at least. These 
are valid and honest assessments of the medical school admissions process, but you’re frightened because very little of this makes sense. “Why shouldn’t doctors major 
in biology? How diverse is ‘diverse?’ What is this ‘real 
world’ and where have I been living the past 20 years?” But above all, you’re worried you won’t measure up against your peers.
And these aren’t just your peers; they’re your study 
buddies, Midnight Cookie-break buddies, rom-com-break buddies and “Weren’t we supposed to be studying?” bud-dies. It’s disconcerting then to feel their success could undermine your own, or you should feel that way at all. 
“Look around this auditorium,” I was told at Preview. 
“This is your competition.”
At this point, I should mention I am in favor of com-
petition. It drives individuals to put forth their best ef-fort to accomplish what is most important to them and 
— if the rest of us are lucky — society. My question is: 
“Whom should we be competing against and why?” The answer to me is for whom we were competing with in the ﬁ  rst place   — ourselves.
That might not seem too different from competing 
against others, but it fosters humility, not jealousy. Jeal-ousy is a refusal to accept what we don’t have; humility is an acceptance of what others do and what we could do one day. I believe the latter en-courages a greater sense of appreciation. There 
is no such thing as passion without apprecia-
tion.
Passion is the key to this idea of distinguish-
ing yourself. It’s so essential to the application 
process that I recommend you include it in 
your resume right above the weeklong medi-cal mission trip to Honduras that changed your 
life. Passionate people rarely ask, “How is this concept going to be helpful to me in the future?” because there 
is no true means of answering this question. Instead, the 
possibility of learning and growing compels them to seek out classes and subjects foreign to them. They recognize their weaknesses and subsequently attempt to challenge 
them. Passionate people, as writer Zadie Smith puts it, 
“resign [themselves] to the lifelong sadness that comes from never being satisﬁ  ed.”
Above all, I ﬁ  nd passionate people to be a joy to be 
around. It’s in their nature to be accepting, to listen, to 
inquire and to care. They push beyond their failures no 
matter how severe and treat the brevity of life with the respect it deserves. Now, if this doesn’t sound like your ideal physician, I’m afraid you should consider a differ-
ent profession.
Does this get you into medical school? Not without 
volunteering, research, the prerequisite courses and that 
pesky MCAT — and, for God’s sake, keep up your GPA. But it may give your resume a certain quality of diversity 
and well-roundedness. Certainly dealing with issues and 
ideas you never before knew existed counts as real-world experience. And will you distinguish yourself? Person-ally, I wouldn’t rely on a review board to answer that 
question.
Neel Bapatla is sophomore English major. His column 
appears on Thursdays.This past Monday, California Gov. Jerry Brown signed land-
mark legislation that marked California as the ﬁ  fth state to permit physician-assisted suicide for terminally ill pa-tients. Under the new law — which has been coined the “End of Life Option Act” — patients who have been diag-
nosed as having six months or less to live by two doctors can pur-chase lethal medication to end their lives if and when they please.
All things willing, the law signiﬁ  es a change in how Ameri-
can legislators regard an individual’s right to take their own lives when presented with an ultimate deadline. There is no justiﬁ  -cation for why a human being should not possess a choice for the quality of their lives when confronted with debilitating and irreversible illnesses.
Detractors of the law have attacked it from several angles, 
with some offering more credible arguments than others. Despite the safeguards outlined in the law — such as the need for two doctors, and the stipulation that the patient must be mentally competent and have the capacity to swallow the medication on his or her own — groups such as Californians Against Assisted Suicide have argued this law will enable individuals from lower socio-economic backgrounds, who have been shown in numer-ous studies to suffer more profoundly from depression, to pur-chase lethal drugs when they are not terminally ill.
While this is a valid and seemingly empathetic concern, the 
data from other states that have had “death with dignity” laws on the books for a long time show that the safeguards mentioned above are effective. Looking at Oregon as an example, as of No-vember 2014, only 752 Oregonians have used assisted suicide as an option. Of those 752, only six were under the age of 35 and the median age was 71.
The other main argument charges that the law and those of 
its ilk ﬂ  ies in the face of God. This argument, which is seemingly 
the prevalent argument as to why “death with dignity” bills ought 
to not be put into practice, contends it is unethical and indeed immoral to enable a person to kill his or herself, no matter how much pain they may be suffering in or how much — or rather, how little — time they have left to live.
As anyone with a basic education knows, this country was 
founded on the principle of the separation of church and state. The relationship between health providers and the government has been a contentious issue as of late and could ﬁ  ll up a whole 
column in itself, so we’re going to refrain from touching on that 
aspect of the issue too deeply. As it stands, however, hospitals and the state do have a deeply intertwined relationship, and like other aspects of governance, the religious whims of the few should not dictate the health of the masses.
This is a particularly pronounced issue in the U.S. where Cath-
olic hospitals that abide by church doctrine make up 10 of the 25 largest health-care networks in the U.S. According to an article in the New Republic, one-third of Catholic hospitals are based in 
rural areas, giving those residents no choice as to the conditions 
of their care.
Gov. Brown is a devout Catholic, himself and attended a Je-
suit seminary for a time. Brown, who consulted a Catholic bishop on this issue, ultimately decided the right for one to die with dig-nity was greater than the need to impose religious dogma on oth-ers, in turn causing unneeded suffering and pain. Brown and this law should serve as examples, rather than viliﬁ  ed caricatures, for how government and the law can better serve Americans.The right to die 
is a testament to 
eﬀ  ective legislation
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Mass shooting after mass shooting, 
the news media boils the trend down to an issue of mental illness. 
How do they continually get it so 
wrong?
As a person diagnosed with bipolar dis-
order, I prefer to use the term “neuro-diver-
gence” with the aim of not continuing the 
trend of dehumanization that attributing men-tal illnesses to people often does. I’d like to be embraced as a person and to destigmatize mental illness and related words that despica-
bly come to mind like “crazy” or “psycho.”
Last week, a 26-year-old man opened ﬁ  re 
at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, 
Oregon, which led to the deaths of 10 people. 
Nine people were reportedly injured.
News reports indicated the gunman spe-
ciﬁ  cally targeted Christians. The shooter alleg-
edly committed suicide after an exchange of ﬁ  re with police, Douglas County Sheriff John 
Hanlin said to CNN. The supposed cause of 
death was then reinforced by the state medical examiner, who determined it was a suicide.
Although there are well-founded indica-tions the shooter was troubled with respect to his mental health, that does not mean it should be a pre-
cursor for associating neuro-diver-
gence with mass shootings.
When President Barack Obama 
spoke at a press conference shortly 
after the shooting occurred, he fell 
into this very error.
“It’s fair to say that anybody 
who does this has a sickness in their minds, regardless of what they think 
their motivations may be,” Obama said.
“But we are not the only country on earth 
that has people with mental illnesses or want 
to do harm to other people.”
Inhabiting such an inﬂ  uential role in gov-
ernment, Obama is essentially stigmatizing a whole group of people.
To gauge the number of people within this 
category, an estimated 43.8 million adults 
were diagnosed with a mental health condi-
tion in the U.S. in 2013, according to the Sub-stance Abuse and Mental Health Services Ad-ministration.In a recent study conducted by 
two Vanderbilt University research-ers on the relationship between 
neuro-divergence and mass shoot-
ings, they found “fewer than 5 per-cent of the 120,000 gun-related kill-ings in the United States between 
2001 and 2010 were perpetrated by 
people diagnosed with mental ill-ness.”
In another study at North Caroli-
na State University, they found the mentally ill 
are more likely to be victims of violence rather 
than perpetrators.
So what are mass shootings in the U.S. 
about then?
What Obama said depoliticizes the trend at 
the expense of an already misunderstood and marginalized segment of the population.
In this particular case, the shooter had a 
consistent online presence. For many of his 
accounts, he used the email address iron-
cross45@gmail.com. The iron cross is a sym-bol associated with Nazism, which could give some implication he could have had Nazi or fascist sympathies.
He also had a Myspace account in which 
he posted Irish-Republican Army photos and 
videos depicting soldiers in masked garb hold-
ing guns.
As it’s been noted, he also possessed a dis-
dain for Christianity and those who follow it.
The point I’m making is whenever these 
horriﬁ  c moments ensue, the shooters have, more often than not, motives and ideologies.
They hold onto something that drives them 
into a ﬁ  t of violence, and it leads to the loss of 
human life.
If we don’t take notice of that and we 
continue to blindly use a vague deﬁ  nition of 
mental illness as a scapegoat, this will happen 
again.
Or maybe it’s just difﬁ  cult to actually con-
sider the ideologies that represent intolerance 
of religion or toward particular groups of peo-ple — those that have become so entrenched 
in our culture — have the capacity to motivate 
gun violence.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism ju-
nior. Her columns appeaer on Thursdays. Press coverage of mass shootings leave neuro-divergent on marginsColumn
Aubrey
Krampert
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffTOP LEFT:
Showing off an Instagram frame 
at the Accessibility Fair, Laura Jaramillo, a 19-year-old UF communication sciences and disorders sophomore, volun-teered to talk with students about disabilities. The frame and the hashtag #UFAccessibility 
were made to spread the word 
about the fair and “to get more people out here, ” Jaramillo said.
MIDDLE LEFT:
Natalie McGee (left), a market-ing student, and Naomi Barb, a health science pre-occupational therapy student, both 19-year-old UF sophomores, smile as they talk about disability acces-sibility on campus at the Dean of Students Office’s table. Stu-dents wrote on balloons to ex-press what accessibility means to them. “More accessibility is what we need, ” said Barb, who one day wants to work with peo-ple with disabilities.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Lindsay Gowens, an 18-year-old UF marketing freshman, picks up a button that reads, “Not all disabilities are visible, ” from the Disability Resource Center’s table at the Accessibility Fair. Gowens said she has a friend with severe depression, and she said the button’s message reso-nated with her. “Mental disabili-ties are just as serious as physi-cal disabilities, ” she said.
TOP RIGHT:
Caroline Nickerson, a 21-year-old UF history and East Asian languages and literatures junior, writes on her homemade but-ton at the Accessibility Fair on Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas. The fair promoted awareness of disabilities and provided information about UF’s disability resources. On the but-ton, Nickerson wrote, “A flower does not think of the flower next to it — it just blooms. ” She said she made the button for a friend who had been comparing him-self to others at work.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Brandon Nguyen, a 20-year-old economics junior, pets Kevin, a 1-year-old yellow Labrador re-triever and guide dog in training, at the Southeastern Guide Dog table during the Accessibility Fair. The goal of Kevin’s training is to one day help a blind owner. “It’s different than having  a pet, ” Nguyen said. “They have more purpose outside of companion-ship. ”Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
UF student to sell reptiles at ReptiDay
One UF student has about 50 reptiles in his apartment, pg 13.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 11.Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Narcos, ” pg 10.Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
The Main Squeeze is coming to 
Gainesville and bringing along their eclec-
tic sound — a mix of funk, soul and rock 
’n’ roll.
The group is performing at 9 p.m. Satur-
day at The JAM, located at 817 W. Univer-
sity Ave. Tickets are $13 at the door or $10 
online, which can be found on The JAM’s 
Facebook page.
According to their website, The Main 
Squeeze is known for their infectious, feel-good musical gumbo. They’ve successfully 
blended soul, funk and rock ’n’ roll in what 
they describe as “Stevie Wonder meets Red Hot Chili Peppers.”
The band is making a stop in Gainesville 
during its “Mind Your Head” tour, named after its most recent September release. With no time to waste, the tour kicked off Aug. 29 in Wisconsin. 
The group then played in Chicago on 
Sept. 4 and 5,  where the members have lived for the last three years.
“It’s been awesome, we are extremely 
excited to have the album out,” said Ben 
“Smiley” Silverstein, the band’s keyboard-
ist and co-founder. “We’re only about nine or ten shows in; we’ve visited about ten cities and still have about 25 more to go.”
Having previously performed in Bonn-
aroo Music Festival, High Sierra Music Festival and Electric Forest Festival, the performers are no strangers to the festival world. 
Performing at these popular festivals 
has helped the band grow its national fan base. On its current tour, the band played a show at the North Coast Music Festival in Chicago.
This isn’t the band’s ﬁ  rst time in 
Gainesville — or Florida for that matter. Silverstein is actually a South Florida na-tive, and he said he owes a lot of The Main 
Squeeze’s success to the festival scene in 
Florida.
“(Festivals) have really helped us jump-
start our fan base here,” Silverstein said. “Gainesville was actually one of those cit-
ies that from the very ﬁ  rst time we played 
there until now — it’s been great.”
Part of that fan base is local female vo-
calist Chelsea Oxendine of Savants of Soul.
“I have been following The Main 
Squeeze for about three years; I was at a party and heard one of their songs, ‘Dr. Funk’ come on loud over the speakers,” Oxendine said. “The next day, I download-
ed their whole album on iTunes, and soon 
began attending any show they played in Gainesville.”
The band formed in 2010 at Indiana University in Bloomington. In the last ﬁ  ve years, the band has released two albums: 
“First Drops” in 2011 and a self-titled al-
bum in 2014.
Silverstein always had a passion for 
music. 
He met the band’s guitarist and co-
founder, Max Newman, while they were both counselors at a sleepaway sports camp in upstate New York. Silverstein was a basketball counselor and Newman was a 
tennis counselor.
From that sports camp, a musical fusion 
was to be born.
“Me and him ended up forming ten 
bands ranging from ages 6 to 16 and at the end of the summer, we made like a festi-
val with all of these bands so they could perform in front of the camp….in our free time, we would write music,” Silverstein 
said.
The two reunited once Newman got 
accepted into Indiana University, where 
Silverstein was already studying. The idea to form a band continued, but a guitarist, 
drummer and vocalist were missing.Newman met drummer Reuben Gin-
grich while living on the same dorm ﬂ  oor 
his freshman year.
Silverstein met current vocalist Corey 
Frye at a dueling piano bar in Blooming-ton, in a peculiar but ﬁ  tting way.
“Once the two dueling piano guys took 
a break, I stumbled onto the stage and 
started playing…then Corey ended up get-
ting on the stage too and just started sing-ing,” the keyboardist said.
 The two exchanged numbers and the 
rest was history.
Gingrich met bassist Jeremiah Hunt in 
California while they were playing in a jazz band at Disneyland. Hunt ended up 
moving from Singapore to Bloomington to 
be part of the funk band.
When it came to forming the band’s 
sound over the last four years, Silverstein 
said it has evolved over time.
“We were ﬁ  ve different people from ﬁ  ve 
completely different backgrounds, we all 
listened to and drew inspiration from dif-ferent music,” he said.
The members managed to put together their likes and met in the middle. Also uniting the members was the importance 
they gave to the performance aspect of the 
music.
“We started as a live band, and it’s 
where we strive the most…when we get to the studio the hardest thing is to try to 
capture the live energy we have on stage 
in a studio environment,” Silverstein said.
The Main Squeeze has been touring 
steadily for the past three years with about 
160 shows a year. 
According to the keyboardist, the band 
is out on the road for about 200 days out 
of the year.
The audience can expect music from 
old albums, recently released albums and even new music for future albums. And ac-cording to Oxendine, showgoers will prob-ably catch Corey spilling “every bit of his 
heart and soul into every note he sings.”
“His vocal range is very expansive and 
their songs showcase it,” she said. “As a 
vocalist myself, I need occasional inspira-tion — Main Squeeze provides that for me 
in their live shows.”THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Main Squeeze will bring their mix of funk, soul and rock ‘n’ roll  to Gainesville on Saturday. The group will perform at 
9 p.m. at The JAM, 817 W. University Ave.
The Main Squeeze to perform at The JAM Saturday night
MUSICTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
MEDIOCRE ADVICESENIOR YEAR, DATING, WHIPPETS
AND WAKING UP SOMEWHERE RANDOM
With college winding down (I’m a se-
nior), how do you think I can maximize 
the rest of my ﬂ  eeting college experience?
- Scared Senior
You know that song Drake is in, “No 
New Friends”?
That’s how you should live out these 
last few months of college. You’ve al-ready met all the people you’re going to meet, gotten drunk at every bar one too many times and had enough regrets to ﬁ  ll 
a lifetime. 
Honestly, just stop now. Don’t bother 
exploring cool stuff around Gainesville. 
You can visit Ginnie Springs when you 
have three whiny kids. Go to Paynes Prai-
rie Preserve State Park when your phone won’t stop ringing from business. Sport-ing events are more fun as an alumnus anyway.
This is the only time in your life when 
you can sleep until noon and then take a nap at 3 p.m. So do that. Sleep. Sleep away the rest of your senior year and you 
won’t regret it; trust me.I’m trying to impress a girl. I think 
she likes me, so I want to ask her on a 
date but I want to have the perfect date 
planned. What is the perfect date?
- Corndogs or Rawdogs
Despite what Miss Rhode Island 
thinks, I’m not the biggest fan of April 
25. I’d have to say June 21, the summer solstice. It’s the longest day of the year and affords endless opportunities for fun.
When are you too old to wake up and 
not know where you are?
- Anonymous
This inquiry is deﬁ  nitely in the conver-
sation for greatest questions submitted to this column. Honestly, you’re never too old to wake up and not know where you are. Waking up in a random place during 
college is a rite of passage. It’s like hav-
ing your bar mitzvah! Think — You’re surrounded by people you don’t recog-nize; occasionally somebody slips you 
money for the “service” you beautifully 
provided; you can’t taste brunch because of your nerves; and then, ultimately, you try to burn every picture taken from your memory.
Recently, I’ve noticed some of my 
friends’ drug habits have been getting more aggressive. First it was just pot, then 
adderall, xanax and coke, then hallucino-
gens, and that was all ﬁ  ne with me. But now they’re doing whippets and I fear for their health. How do I approach them to talk about maybe toning it down without 
making a confrontation?
- Anonymous
The only whippets I’ve ever heard of 
are those cute miniature greyhound dogs, 
which leads me to believe your friends are into some pretty deep shit. It sounds like you need to have an intervention. Well, the ﬁ  rst step toward having an in-
tervention is admitting you want to have 
an intervention. Then you must admit you are powerless to the intervention pro-cess itself. Only then can you begin the 
intervention. Interventions are essentially 
somber surprise parties, but they are still surprise parties nonetheless. This is why it needs to be a potluck. Your best friend brings the cups, your neighbor the wa-
termelon, mom the casserole, and make 
sure you bring the drugs so your friends are comfortable once they get there. Af-ter all, what’s a party without boozing up 
the punch and tiny greyhounds running 
around?
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. His column appears in the Avenue section on Thursdays. 
If you have any questions you would 
like to see answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com.
Simon Moskovitz
mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.orgPlata o plomo?
The latest Netﬂ  ix original series to get 
buzzed about is obvious: “Narcos.”
The series follows the true story of infa-
mous drug lord Pablo Escobar and the Colom-
bian cartels during the 1980s and ‘90s -- and 
the Drug Enforcement Administration agents that ended their little party.
With only one season consisting of 10 
episodes released, the series has gained criti-cal acclaim and a large fan base, receiving a 9.1/10 on IMDB and a 77 percent on Metac-ritic. The show released its ﬁ  rst episodes on Aug. 28 and got renewed for a second season 
on Sept. 3, just a week later.
Rather than shining a negative light on Co-
lombia, the series focuses on the extravagant 
and unbelievable antics of the man who was once known as the “King of Cocaine,” along with all those who surrounded him.
Boyd Holbrook plays Steve Murphy, a DEA 
agent who narrates and guides the audience as he, along with his partner Javier Peña (Pe-
dro Pascal from Game of Thrones), strives to 
take down Escobar, played by Brazilian actor Wagner Moura.
Although the viewer only hears Murphy 
narrating, this isn’t the heroic tale where America comes and saves the day. The story explores various points of view, including Es-
cobar’s, his partners and even the Colombian 
government.
What’s surprising about the show is that 
while the story involves drugs, sex and vio-lence, Brazilian director Jose Padilha didn’t rely on it for the ratings; his portrayal of the story is practically a dramatized documentary.
Padilha authentically constructed the tale 
using Colombian music, scenery and even 
sayings to make you feel like you’re in 1980s 
Colombia. There are even ﬂ  ashbacks using actual footage from the ‘80s and ‘90s to re-mind you that yes, it’s real.
Oh, and a good 70 percent of the show is in 
Spanish – relax, there are subtitles. If you can stomach the blood and drugs, you might even get to learn a new language.
You’ll start watching the series for the sto-
ry, but you’ll stay because you can’t believe it’s true.By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer Take a sip…
 Whenever Pabloʼs mustache 
gets on your nerves, because 
it happens
 To get you through 
uncomfortable sex scenes
 Whenever you Google 
something Pablo Escobar-
related while watching the 
show
 Whenever thereʼs “baking 
soda” on the screen
 While subconsciously 
jamming to salsa or merengue 
classics placed throughout the 
show
 When Pablo scares you
 When thereʼs actual footage
 Take a shot
Take a shot…
 Whenever Pablo says, “Plata 
o plomo?”
 Every time the narrator says, 
“And just like that...”
 Whenever thereʼs a baby 
on the screen, because 
sometimes you need a cute baby to ease the tension
 Whenever thereʼs a hooker party
 Whenever thereʼs a cute moment 
between Pablo and la Tata
 When a bad guy dies
 Whenever Valeria Velez and 
la Tata meet face-to-face 
(#awkward)
 Whenever you ﬁ  nd yourself 
pausing the show and 
thinking, “What the heck is 
going on?”
Finish your drink…
 When Pablo kills one of his 
own
 Whenever one of the good 
guys dies
 When you see where Pablo 
stayed for prison
 When you ﬁ  nd out how much 
money Pablo was making (Drugs 
are bad, OK?)
 When DEA agent Murphy 
attempts to speak Spanish
 When you ﬁ  nish the season 
and ﬁ  nd yourself speaking 
with a Paisa accent12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Los Angeles-based musician 
Trevor Hall is performing in 
Gainesville after the release of his 
most recent album, which details 
his new perspective on life.
While the acoustic folk and 
reggae artist has friends in 
Gainesville and has even stayed 
overnight on the way to shows in other cities, this is his first perfor-mance in the college town. Hall is now on tour after the late Au-
gust release of “KALA,” a musical 
look into Hall’s personal journey of changing the way he perceives time.
Kala means “time” in Sanskrit, 
the primary sacred language of Hinduism.
“(It’s) kind of the healing pro-
cess of looking at time as a space 
and as growth,” Hall said, “and 
there’s learning, rather than as something that we’re running out of.”
Something about time went off 
in the artist’s brain when he visit-ed his grandma last year. He was pushing her around in her wheel-chair when she said, “Isn’t time 
such a wonderful gift?”
After taking her words to 
heart, he spent the last year and a 
half thinking about that moment. 
The memory led to his medita-
tions about time and the cycles of the earth — the inspiration of the album.
Most of the songs were written 
in Maui over the winter. Although Hall called the time there special, he said he doesn’t have to neces-sarily be in a magnificent place to 
write music.
“So it’s more about where I’m 
at on the inside, you know,” Hall 
said, “and for me songwriting is 
a process of getting quiet, you 
know, kind of getting to silence through sound as ironic as that is.”
Once he finds that silence, the 
music is usually created before there are any words to the song. He doesn’t try to write a certain song or a certain style but lets the 
“energy” speak to him, he said.
He said the sound gives him 
the language.
“The music kind of creates a 
mood,” Hall said, “creates a col-or, even, an energy that inspires 
the words, you know.”
With his music attracting an 
eclectic crowd, no matter how 
many times he plays in the same 
city, the performer said he never knows what to expect.
Recently, he was playing a 
show in Vancouver — where he 
has performed before — and af-
ter 11 p.m., the venue became a nightclub. His group had until 10:45 p.m. to play its set, and as the clock grew closer to 11 p.m., the nightclub’s crowd began to 
trickle in and mix with what he 
describes as “hippie Trevor Hall fans.”
The crowd became a total 
clash.The nightclub began playing 
heavy metal for no other reason than to run all the hippies out of the venue.
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, wrote in an email High Dive is excited to bring Hall in for his first Gainesville show.
“Trevor has a really broad 
audience that bridges the gap between reggae and world mu-sic, and folky singer/songwriter stuff,” Lavery said.
Hall will perform Friday at the 
High Dive, located at 210 SW Sec-ond Ave. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 10 p.m. Tickets are available for $18 at 
the door or $15 in advance on 
ticketfly.com.
LA folk and reggae artist to perform first time in GNVMUSIC VIDEO ROUND UP ff the Record
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Tyler, The Creator
Buffalo/Find Your Wings – Oct. 1Directed by: Wolf Haley (himself)Tyler, The Creator gets a lot of hate for his 
rapping style and controversial lyrics, but one 
thing that nobody can deny is his artistic abil-
ity. Tyler won the MTV Video Music Award for “Best New Artist” back in 2011 for his per-formance of “Yonkers” and has been putting out captivating videos ever since.
The music video starts off with “Buffalo” 
from his third studio album, “Cherry Bomb.” The video depicts Tyler completely covered in chalk-white makeup hanging from a tree 
before the branch breaks. He then escapes the 
noose as a small mob of angry people wield-ing pitchforks chase after him. After a short time evading the mob, the scene switches and Tyler is cheered on as he speaks behind a po-dium to a small gathering of people.
The transition into the second part of the 
video is a short compilation of clips from his previous videos. Tyler is now on a ‘70s 
TV show with his band as they get ready to 
perform “Find Your Wings.” Mikey Alfredo, from Illegal Civilization and fellow Odd Fu-ture member, is the host of the show. He in-troduces Tyler and asks him some questions about the song he’s about to perform. Other Odd Future members who make cameos in-clude Left Brain as the drummer and Syd tha Kyd, from soul band The Internet, on stage as part of the background vocals. The Colom-bian singer from Virginia, Kali Uchis, who is 
featured multiple times throughout “Cherry 
Bomb,” is on the stage as well. The video ends after Tyler and his band complete their performance.
Tyler is a creative genius known for his 
striking visuals and is one of the most for-ward-thinking artists of our generation. He has stated numerous times in interviews that he doesn’t want to be remembered as a “con-
troversial rapper” and have his image tainted 
from the lyrics in his songs from over five years ago. Tyler, The Creator has come a long way and continues to serve as an inspiration for creativity and individuality.
Ty Dolla $ignWhen I See Ya feat. Fetty Wap – Oct. 2Directed by: Elliott Sellers
On Friday, Ty Dolla $ign released the vid-
eo for his single “When I See Ya” from his 
debut album, “Free TC,” which drops Nov. 13. The video has a dark and ominous setting and opens up to a light bulb flickering with bats swarming around it. It then goes into a slow overview of a city as a mysterious eye appears in the sky.
The next scene is a dark hallway, and we 
see Ty Dolla $ign standing in a room with three women sitting still behind him. The video constantly shifts throughout the other dark rooms and corridors of the building as Ty Dolla $ign performs his song. The scenes fade in and out as bats are flying all around. Meanwhile, the same mysterious eye shows 
up in different places. Fetty Wap briefly 
makes appearances until he remains in one room during his verse at the 2-minute-and-30-second mark.
The video ends with the camera slowly 
zooming out of Ty Dolla $ign, who remains standing in the hallway until the scene com-pletely fades out. Overall, the video is ex-tremely trippy and doesn’t make a whole lot 
of sense — but the visuals are impressive.
Run The Jewels
Oh My Darling (Don’t Meow) Just Blaze Remix – Oct. 2
Directed by: Hectah
Late last month, Run The Jewels teamed up 
with several producers and released “Meow 
The Jewels,” a complete remix of their album “Run The Jewels 2,” that’s entirely made up of various cat sounds. Yes, I’m being serious. 
While the remixed album was a gift in itself, 
the video for “Oh My Darling (Don’t Meow)” 
just might be the greatest thing ever.
The video features two cats attacking a 
miniature model of New York City as they 
walk through the buildings and swat at toy 
helicopters. Other highlights include the cats 
jumping on and off of the buildings, rolling around on top of cars and gracefully walking through the streets, which are on fire.
The video is only a little over two minutes 
long, but you’ll probably rewatch it at least four times.
Dej Loaf
Back Up Feat. Big Sean – Oct. 5
Directed by: Alex Nazari
On Monday, Dej Loaf debuted the video 
for her hit single, “Back Up,” which features Big Sean. The Detroit goddess stays true to 
her roots by hitting the streets of her home-
town in her new video. The video begins with a quick glance of Detroit before showing some 
people checking out skates at a local roller 
rink.
The video goes back and forth between 
several younger people dancing in various lo-
cations throughout Detroit and the roller rink 
where Dej Loaf is surrounded by the people of 
her hometown.
 Fellow Detroit rapper Big Sean makes an 
appearance in the video, but remains alone in 
a room illuminated by a black light, creating 
the illusion that he’s at the roller rink as well.
The video for “Back Up” is a hometown 
shout-out from Dej who clearly hasn’t forgot-
ten where she came from. The Detroit duo’s 
single “Back Up” is on Dej Loaf’s extended 
play “#AndSeeThatsTheThing” that was re-
leased in July.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Los Angeles folk and reggae artist Trevor Hall is performing Friday at High Dive, 210 SW Second 
Ave. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 10 p.m.
Singer touches on concept of “time”THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you ha ve pain in y our face or ja w?
Volunteers needed for study of     or            
F          om e s tio   ro v ded
To be eligible you must be:
 18-74 years old
To learn more , contact us at:
 352-273-7620
PRICE-CTSI@uﬂ.e du
In good he alth
Fluent in English (written and spoken)
Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
UF animal sciences senior Joe Richichi 
shares a two-bedroom apartment with about 
50 cold-blooded companions.
Sometimes his friends keep him up at 
night, head-butting the glass behind his bed-room or clawing at the walls, but to Richichi those are just the perks of his job.
On Oct. 17, the 26-year-old will place 
most of his reptiles up for adoption at Rep-tiDay Gainesville, a one-day reptile event to be held inside the Paramount Plaza Hotel and Conference Center, located at 2900 SW 
13th St., said Bonnie Miller, promotions team 
leader of Repticon, the event’s host company.
The event will begin at 10 a.m. and close 
at 5 p.m. It will feature dozens of breeders 
and vendors looking to sell their exotic ani-
mals and animal-care equipment, Miller said.
Live-animal educational seminars will 
also be held throughout the day, she added.
“They can buy, they can learn and they 
can build a habitat all in one place,” Miller said.
Tickets will cost $10 for adults and $5 for 
children ages 5-12 at the door. Children un-
der 5 years old can attend for free.
Richichi said the upcoming show would be 
his 30th or 40th time at ReptiDay Gainesville.
This year, he will be selling reptiles and 
conducting a seminar on axolotls, a type of salamander.
But for Richichi, his love for reptiles 
sparked from a love for their ancestors.
“I was a dinosaur kid growing up,” he 
said.
While still in high school in New York, he 
purchased his ﬁ  rst reptiles online. He and his 
friend ordered ﬁ  ve bearded dragons, three of which Richichi kept.
Richichi’s hobby turned into a potential 
career after he worked at a pet store in his home state. One day, someone brought in an extremely malnourished gecko, and he 
managed to nurse the animal back to health, 
sparking his passion for animal care.
Richichi said he spent much of his early 
life drawing and even received an associate degree in communications and media art in 
2009,however, he said he wasn’t happy with 
the path he was taking and the jobs he was getting.
So, in 2011, inspired by the incident at the 
pet store, he moved to Gainesville, where his cousin lived, to pursue a veterinary career.
Richichi wanted to get into UF to study animal sciences, but he ﬁ  rst needed to fulﬁ  ll his prerequisites. And more importantly, he 
needed to pay for it all.
To help fund his education, he and his 
cousin started a business, Juke Reptiles, 
which dealt with breeding and selling their animals. The two attended shows like Rep-
tiDay and ran their business for about six 
months before Richichi said he wanted to leave the breeding industry.
“Every industry has bad eggs,” he said. 
“The more I saw that, the more I realized that more reptiles need to be rescued.”
In 2012, his animal-rescue company, 
Ready To Go Reptiles, was born.
Richichi does all of his business on the 
traveling-show circuit, attending shows in Florida and, more recently, Georgia. In be-tween shows, he keeps his animals in his apartment.
“Everything’s based out of my apart-
ment,” he said. “On average, at least two to three weekends a month, I’m traveling and ﬁ  nding buyers.”
At any given time, he said, about 40 to 50 
different reptiles reside in his apartment.
Ranging from reticulated pythons to Tegu 
lizards, the animals usually stay with him for about a month before ﬁ  nding permanent 
homes.
But sometimes he grows attached.“I have a big problem with that actually,” 
Richichi said. “I’ve got a connection with so 
many of my animals.”
One such connection is with a 6-month-
old red-footed tortoise named Director Fury, who was born with one eye. Richichi origi-nally bought the tortoise from a breeder who was going to have him euthanized.
The tortoise was named after a character 
from “The Avengers” who always wore an eye patch, he said.
Along with his animal business, Richichi 
also sells his artwork at shows and on his 
website, admitting he makes more money 
from his drawings than from his animals.
Either way, he said he couldn’t picture 
himself doing anything else besides working with animals.
“I absolutely love what I do,” he said. “I 
wouldn’t give it up for anything.”UF student to sell reptiles
LOCAL
“They can buy, they can learn and 
they can build a habitat all in one 
place.”
Bonnie Miller
Repticon promotions team leaderSIX BANDS WILL COMPETE.
Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
The 2015 Northwestern Mutual Battle 
of the Bands will bring people together with beer, food, music and a $5,000 grand 
prize package. 
Local band Grit is one of the six bands 
competing at the event, and 23-year-old 
lead singer, rhythm guitarist and key-
board player Gytis Garsys 
said he’s looking forward to the show. The ﬁ  ve-member band, which describes itself as a “southern rock band,” 
will perform along with ﬁ  ve 
other bands at the Tioga Town Center Sat-urday  from 4 to 9 p.m.
“It sounded like something we’d like to 
be involved in,” Garsys said. “We like to help promote music in our community as well as charitable events.”
In addition to Grit, Jamie Davis, TJ 
Brown, Houston Keen, HEDGES and Idyl-
wild will perform.
The Battle of the Bands, organized 
in part by a group called Leadership 
Gainesville, will beneﬁ  t the Education 
Foundation of Alachua County. Rachel 
Debigare, the program director of Educa-tion Foundation for Alachua County, said all the money for the event will go directly 
to the Take Stock in Children program, a 
scholarship and mentoring program for at-risk children in Alachua County schools for seventh through 10th grade.
Debigare, 26, said that Take Stock in 
Children has certain guidelines for good behavior and GPA that can earn students two-year prepaid scholarships to any Flor-
ida college.
She said the program currently has 326 
students, with a mentor for each one.
The money raised for this event will 
help bring in more scholarships and enroll 
more students in the program, she said. Each scholarship costs $8,000, accord-ing to the foundation’s website. All funds 
used to purchase scholarships can be dou-
bled through the Florida Prepaid College Foundation. 
“We count ourselves so fortunate, and 
we’re so appreciative,” she said of the publicity and sponsorships the event has had.  She hopes for a couple hundred peo-
ple to attend the event and to raise about $20,000. 
Dwaine Bush, the vice president and 
commercial relationship manager at BBVA 
Compass, is on the Leadership Gainesville 
committee and helped plan the Battle of the Bands. He said there are four judges and the ﬁ  fth one is the audience. The family-friendly event will host all kinds of 
music from country to rock to pop. There 
will be a dance troupe from in town, a live 
auction and a live disc jock-ey playing between bands. 
There will also be a tailgate 
for the football game.
 “I hope this is the be-
ginning of an annual tra-
dition,” Bush, 42, said of this ﬁ  rst event 
Leadership Gainesville and Take Stock in 
Children will partner in.
Denise McIntyre, 21, is a UF Master of 
Public Health student who plans to go to 
the event Saturday. 
“I’m a big advocate for youth so I think 
Take Stock in Children does that,” she 
said. “They’re the deﬁ  nition of helping youth.” 
She said this will be her ﬁ  rst time at-
tending an event like Battle of the Bands, and she’s looking forward to meeting the mentors for Take Stock in Children.
Gerry King, 45, owner and chief master-
ing engineer of Skylab Recording Studios in Gainesville, is the head of the biggest sponsor of the event. The grand prize is a $5,000 recording and production package. 
One staff member of the studio, Mark Pin-
ske, will also be a judge, he said. Pinske is a well-known engineer who has worked with Tom Petty and Michael Jackson.
King said the money is enough for 
more than a week’s recording and produc-tion time.
“It’s something positive,” he said. “I’ve 
been in music for a long time. It’s a pas-
sion for me and I know it is for others as 
well.” 
The music community is an ongoing 
passion of King’s, he said, and he enjoys 
working with the Gainesville community.
Garsys said he’s excited to compete 
with and meet other local bands. 
“The only thing we’re interested in 
is putting on a rocking performance and making sure everyone has a good time,” 
he said.   Battle of the Bands event 
to oﬀ  er $5000 grand prize
MUSICTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
CONDO FOR SALE:Meadowbrook Golf Course Upstairs Corner Unit, 2/2, 1273 Sq Ft. MLS # 367033 $124,900. Call Mary Jo Brick 352-219-0430 San Felasco Real Estate Services, Inc for an appt.    10-14-15-5-5
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
Multi-Family Yard Sale
to support kids in Alachua County with hear-ing loss. Saturday, October 10 from 7am to noon. 8216 NW 54th St.Gainesville, FL 32653    10-9-15-2-10
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDED
Up to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
CITT Web Services captioning has an OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Italian & Spanish Tutoring
Call 786-395-3262
$8/Hr Students                         10-9-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
"Antonio Callaway doesn't like 
crust (on his PB&J sandwiches), so I had to cut the crust off. It's a true story. " — Jim McElwain"I don't think (Smuckers) Uncrustables have a shelf life, sothat makes a heck of a sandwich. Twinkies, Ding-Dongs, that's sustainable foods. " — Jim McElwainTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
THE GATORS ARE SECOND 
IN THE SEC IN SACKS 
WITH 18 THIS SEASON.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
To the average fan, Florida’s 
defensive line has exceeded ex-
pectations so far this season.
Game after game, the Gators 
have played mercy with opposing quarterbacks, winning the battle in the trenches more often than 
not.
But to defensive line coach 
Chris Rumph, the group is no-
where near where it needs to be.
“There’s so much more out 
there. We left so much on the field,” Rumph said, “so we’ve got to work even harder each week.”Through five games, the 
Gators are second in the South-
eastern Conference and tied for 
sixth nationally with 18 sacks and have recorded at least three sacks in four straight games. 
In its 13-game 2014 season, 
Florida’s defense sacked the quar-terback just 30 times.
Different players have had 
shining moments throughout the 
early season.
Senior Jon Bullard leads the 
way with 4.5 sacks, recording at 
least half a sack in the last four 
games while being a disruptive 
force at defensive tackle.
Redshirt junior Bryan Cox Jr. 
has recovered a fumble in back-to-back games, each setting up a 
touchdown five plays later.
Outside pass rushers Alex Mc-UF defensive line yet to 
reach prime this year 
VOLLEYBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
As the starting setter, Mackenzie Dagos-
tino has been the quarterback for Florida 
volleyball’s offense all season long.
But Dagostino, a senior, suffered a con-
cussion in Sunday’s loss to Arkansas after her and teammate Rhamat Alhassan col-lided near the end of the first set. 
She played the second set but was later replaced by Abby Detering, who finished the game in her spot.
With coach Mary Wise saying Monday 
that Dagostino was “highly doubtful” to play this weekend, all signs now point to Detering getting the start.
To put even more weight on the sopho-
more’s shoulders, Detering might be tasked with righting the ship and ending Florida’s three-game losing skid.
It’s a tough assignment for anyone, let 
alone Detering, who played in just 10 sets last year as a freshman.
But Detering isn’t wor-
ried.
“I’m gonna keep on 
doing my normal rou-tine,” she said. 
“If I’m in, that’s awe-
some. If not, I’m gonna keep on being the best 
teammate I can and support Mack in any way I can.”
Detering has received a lot of help and encouragement from her teammates and coaches to help prepare her to step up if 
needed.
After tallying 30 assists and three kills, 
Wise praised the way Detering played in 
such a close match Sunday.
“Abby Detering did a terrific job,” she 
said. “She’s never been on the floor in a fifth set. … She gave our hitters some re-ally good looks.”
One teammate that helped Detering step Sophomore setter ready to step up in senior's absence By Kyle Brutman         
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
The Southeastern Conference is more of a 
grind than a test, and the No. 12 Florida soccer 
team has shown it has been able to fill voids that needed to be addressed with the departure of several key players from last season.
Junior forward Brooke Sharp, who has 
scored seven goals this year, seems to be tak-ing on the role that Havana Solaun assumed 
last season as the second-in-command on of-
fense.And freshman midfielder Sarah Troccoli 
has emerged as one of the best young players 
in the conference, having already notched four 
goals and two assists on the season.
But one player who has really stood out for 
the Gators this season is senior defender Chris-ten Westphal.
Westphal, who was named an All-Ameri-
can in 2013, has been one of the Gators’ most 
valuable players this year.
While it seems odd to say that she’s break-
ing out this season — she has been named to 
two consecutive all-conference first teams — Westphal has played through the 2015 season with a skill that she had yet to showcase on the collegiate stage until now: assisting on goals.
Having gone her first three seasons at UF 
with just four assists, the senior defender has accumulated seven assists so far this season. 
Westphal leads the team in the category, 
and is in a 10th-place tie in assists in the coun-try.
Part of Westphal’s offensive surge this sea-
son can be attributed to a new type of role she has been asked to play on the team.
“One of the things we asked her to do was 
own her services,” coach Becky Burleigh said on Monday.
That she has. On top of being the team’s top distributor, 
Westphal has notched three of her seven as-sists off of corner kicks.
Last season, Florida didn’t have any one or 
two players assigned to take corner kicks, but now that job belongs to Westphal on the left side and senior Lauren Smith on the right.
Burleigh understands the importance of 
having a player that can distribute set pieces 
with the ability that Westphal has shown thus Senior defender fulfilling a role on offense for the Gators 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF defensive end Alex McCalister looks to tackle Mississippi quarterback Chad Kelly during Florida's 
38-10 win against the Rebels on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 19
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 19She has seven assists this year
“She has a big impact offensively and 
defensively for us. Taking the ball up 
and taking on so many people and get 
a cross off.”
 Sarah Troccoli
UF freshman midfielder
Wise
"Maybe they got tired of rubbing his belly."
Jim McElwain
on why UF quarterback Will Grier was 
getting his back rubbed on Wednesday
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
FOOTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
At ﬁ  rst glance, Florida coach 
Jim McElwain and Missouri coach 
Gary Pinkel seem to have taken 
separate directions in their coach-
ing careers without ever interact-ing with one another.
However, Saturday will not be 
the ﬁ  rst time both of their paths will cross. 
When McElwain was at East-
ern Washington, he said he used go watch the University of Wash-
ington’s practices — where Pinkel 
was the wide receivers coach and eventually the offensive coordina-tor — to see how the Huskies op-
erated their football program.  
“He won’t even remember it, 
obviously, because I was at a 
little place, Eastern Washington,” McElwain said. 
“Went there as often as we 
could to study how they run their program, how they coach when he was a receiver coach and then 
became an offensive coordina-
tor.”
But, Pinkel said he does re-
member McElwain — who was a graduate assistant and eventually 
the quarterbacks and wide receiv-
ers coach at Eastern Washington — coming out to see the Huskies practice in the late 1980s.  
“It was a long time ago. I have 
great respect for him,” Pinkel said. 
“He’s doing a great job with 
the program. There’s nothing 
easy about building any program, 
and obviously they started off re-ally well.”McElwain echoed the same 
sentiments about Pinkel. 
McElwain went into a little bit 
more depth as to why he would always go and observe Washing-ton’s practices. 
The Huskies were a winning 
program under coach Don James as they went 67-26-2 from 1985-1992 and split a national title with the University of Miami in 1991.  “I’ve got the utmost respect ob-
viously for him and how he runs 
his program,” McElwain said. 
“We tried to emulate a lot of 
things that coach James did in 
those 11 years or whatever it was 
coaching at Eastern because, let’s 
face it, they were one of the kings of college football at that time.”
The two also share another 
connection with another coach in the Southeastern Conference: Alabama coach Nick Saban.
Saban and Pinkel both went 
to Kent State with the Missouri coach playing tight end and the Alabama coach playing defensive 
back. 
Both would end up being a 
part of the Kent State coaching 
staff as Pinkel would be a student and graduate assistant from 1974-75, while Saban was on the Gold-en Flashes’ staff from 1972-76.
“Obviously, he and coach Sa-
ban were together under that, so I’m sure there were a lot of simi-larities in how they go about their 
daily business, and it shows up 
on ﬁ  lm,” McElwain said.
Florida’s coach made a name 
for himself as the offensive coor-dinator and quarterbacks coach 
for Saban’s Crimson Tide from 
2008-11. 
McElwain would end up win-
ning two national titles — 2009 
and 2011 — while he was at Ala-
bama before becoming the head coach at Colorado State.  
But now, Saturday will be the 
ﬁ  rst time the two will meet on the 
ﬁ  eld against each other as head 
coaches of their respective foot-ball programs when Florida takes on Missouri. 
The Gators are coming off a 
huge upset win against then-No. 3 Ole Miss and will have plenty of conﬁ  dence as they play in their second road game of the season.
Meanwhile, the Tigers look to 
build on their 24-10 win against South Carolina last week. 
UF hasn’t had the ﬁ  repower on 
offense the last couple of times the two teams have played, but Pinkel is aware that this Florida team is different. 
“You can see the enthusiasm 
of the players and you can also see the conﬁ  dence level of the team increasing after a big win last week,” Pinkel said. 
“It will be a great challenge for 
us and we’re excited about the opportunity and working really hard to play our best.”McElwain, Pinkel to meet again when Gators face Tigers
AP Photo
Missouri head coach Gary Pinkel watches his team warm up before the start of the team’s 9-6 win 
against Connecticut on Sept. 19 at Memorial Stadium in Columbia, Missouri. 
in and produce for Dagostino was Dagostino herself.
“In the gym we have really great chemistry with 
each other,” Detering said. 
“All the setters have helped each other out. Just 
having her as someone to look up to going into that 
match it felt very comfortable.”
Sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan said 
there was a different feel on the court when Detering stepped in, and the team will need to adjust to her style of play.
“They’re definitely two different types of players,” 
Alhassan said. 
“I think Mack’s very aggressive and vocal. So is 
Abby but I feel like those two are different people so 
the atmosphere around them is different.”
With a plethora of experienced hitters surrounding 
her, Detering knows she can feed the ball to anyone 
with confidence. 
If she gets the nod to start this weekend, she said 
she’ll figure out who’s hot and send it their way often.
“Just looking at our hitters they’re all great hitters, 
so I think that’s just an awesome thing for a setter because I know I can give anyone the ball and they 
can dominate it,” Detering said.
As far as ending the losing streak, the Gators know 
they’ve played well but have fallen just short.
All of their focus now is on getting back on track 
and earning a much-needed victory.
“We’re just so hungry right now for that win,” De-
tering said. 
“It doesn’t matter where we are at this point, we’re 
just gonna be striving to get that 'W.'”
Other players, like Nikki O’Rourke, aren’t con-
cerned about the future despite the recent losses.
“Once we get that 'W' it’ll help a little bit,” 
O'Rourke said. 
“But in the meantime we just gotta keep being our-
selves and we’ll be all right.”THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
Calister and CeCe Jefferson have 
combined for 7.5 quarterback hur-
ries and three fumble recoveries.
But Rumph said the team's per-
formance supersedes the individual 
accolades.
“We have some guys that have 
some good individual performances the first few games, but as a unit, we’ve still got a ways to go,” he said. 
“Those guys have to get better, 
I’ve got to coach them better.”
That process of improving will 
continue on Saturday, when No. 11 Florida (5-0, 3-0 Southeastern Con-ference) goes up against a battle-
tested Missouri team looking to stay 
relevant in the conference title race.
The Tigers (4-1, 1-1 SEC) field 
a veteran offensive line, a group 
of five seniors with a combined 92 
starts among them heading into this season.
Despite the experience, the group 
has struggled, giving up an SEC-
worst 38 tackles behind the line of 
scrimmage.
And yet while the Tigers’ offense 
is losing the battle up front, they 
have only surrendered nine sacks 
this year, a testament to how quickly their quarterbacks release the ball.
“You just got to keep going,” Mc-
Calister said, “because there’s going 
to be a time where you hold that 
ball just one more second where we do get to them and get the ball out (and) get it back to our offense. It’s 
important to them boys.”
And even with freshman quar-
terback Drew Lock filling in for sus-
pended starter Maty Mauk (violation of team rules) for the second straight 
week, Missouri is hoping to not skip 
a beat.
In Missouri’s 24-10 win over 
South Carolina, Lock held his own, 
completing 75 percent of his passes 
and throwing two touchdowns.
“If (Lock’s) going to be the guy, 
they had packages for him all year, so it’s not like he’s a first-time start-
er who’s never played before,” UF 
coach Jim McElwain said. 
“But the way he commands, 
knowing where to go with it. I think 
that’s a credit to what they do offen-
sively.”
But to Rumph, the guy calling the 
shots doesn’t matter. If the offensive line has experience, the Gators will 
still have a challenge.
“You tell me they got five brand 
new offensive linemen then I’d be 
able to be licking my chops,” he 
said, “but those guys are going to be 
there and they’re going to be protect-ing him the same way they’re pro-tecting Mauk.”FOOTBALL,  from pg17Missouri has 
given up 38 
tackles for 
loss this year
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg17Florida looks to snap its losing streak on Friday
far.
“We always feel that the ability to score on 
set pieces is about 70 percent service,” Burleigh 
said.
Westphal’s effectiveness on corner kicks is 
just a small part of what she’s been able to pro-vide for Florida on the offensive end of the field.
From one corner flag to the other, Westphal 
is almost always in control of the entire left wing when she is on the field.
“She has a big impact offensively and defen-
sively for us,” Troccoli said. 
“Taking the ball up and taking on so many 
people and get a cross off.”
None of this should take any credit away 
from how much of a presence she is for the Florida back line.
As quickly as she speeds up the side of the 
field to send in a well-placed cross into the box, Westphal sprints back to her natural position to join fellow senior defender Claire Falknor in pre-
venting goals.
“Christen has always been a really outstand-
ing player,” Falknor said.
“She’s able to bring an offensive presence 
when we need it the most.“SOCCER,  from pg17UF is in a tie for 10th in the country in assists
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF defender Christen Westphal dribbles during Florida's 3-2 overtime win against 
Oklahoma State on Sept. 4 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Abby Detering sets the ball during warmups before Florida's 3-0 win against Georgia on Oct. 10 in the O'Connell Center. “In the gym we have really great chemistry with 
each other. All the setters have helped each other 
out. ”
Abby Detering
UF sophomore setter20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015
SWIMMING & DIVING
By Lauren Staff 
Alligator Writer
@LStaff27
After both the UF men and wom-
en’s swimming and diving teams 
captured their sixth-straight All Flor-ida Invitational titles on Sept. 20 in Gainesville, the teams will be tested 
with a pair of tough road meets 
against Minnesota and Vanderbilt.  
Florida is on track to build off of 
last season’s top-ten success. 
The women’s team is kick-start-ing this week’s competition today, when they will fly to Nashville to 
take on the Vanderbilt Commodores. 
Since Vanderbilt does not have a 
diving team, the divers will stay be-
hind in Gainesville to focus on train-ing. 
According to coach Gregg Troy, 
this will help the team focus on just the swim meet, which won’t be as long or have as many breaks.
 Troy is expecting these meets to 
prove how tough his team is, espe-cially since a few of his swimmers have been bat-tling injuries and 
illnesses since the 
Invitational. 
“We have a 
couple injuries on the women’s side, and a little bit of flu,” Troy said. 
The women 
will then meet up with the men’s 
team on Saturday at Minnesota’s 
Freeman Aquatic Center for a dual-competition. Last season, both teams took on 
Minnesota in the O’Connell Center 
on Nov. 8th in the same dual com-
petition. 
The then-No. 5-ranked men’s 
swimming and diving team defeated the No. 19 Minnesota, 167-125. 
However, when the No. 11 wom-
en’s squad competed against the No. 10 Minnesota, they lost by a score of 183-117.
This is the first meeting since that 
loss, giving the women a chance to redeem themselves and show how much they have grown as a team with the help of the freshmen. 
As for the men, it will serve as a 
measuring stick for their progress.  
“(Minnesota) is the best competi-
tion we have seen so far,” Troy said.
“They competed last week at 
FSU, so they have already seen a dual-meet. 
Both of the meets will give the 
coaches a chance to see how well 
their increased intensity practices 
has paid off. Read the rest of the story online at www.alligator.org/sports.Men’s team heads to Minnesota, women go to Vanderbilt
Troy
