TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Dorian Finney-
Smith led the UF 
men’s basketball 
team to a win in its 
Southeastern Confer-
ence opener. Read the 
story on Page 13.
Student organizations promote diversity
The event, called What’s Your Story, was the 
ﬁ  rst of its kind since 2004, pg. 5. Attack on French magazine an attack on free speech
Check out the editorial and cartoon, pg 6.  
Gainesville High teacher takes donations for those in need
Read her story and other features in the Avenue, pg. 7-10. 47/30
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14VOLUME 109 ISSUE 76 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Get Your Studying While It’s Hot
UF students take advantage of the sunny weather in front of the Reitz Union on Wednesday afternoon. “We’re just trying to get our lives together,” joked Nardin Derias, 19, the student sitting middle left.
WEATHER
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Just as Gators are coming out of winter break hibernation, 
today’s weather will have them scrambling back under the 
covers.
Temperatures are expected to rise to 46 degrees during the 
day, according to the National Weather Service. Temperatures 
will then dip below freezing.
National Weather Service meteorologist Angie Enyedi said  
temperatures will plunge to 26 degrees Friday morning in the Gainesville area.
With such cold temperatures, Gainesville Fire Rescue is-
sued a series of suggestions to keep you and your belongings 
safe during this brieﬂ  y ice-age-like week.
Fires are a huge issue during extraordinarily cold periods, 
according to a statement from GFR. To avoid ﬁ  res, GFR advis-es to keep ﬂ  ammable objects at least 3 feet away from heating equipment. It is also important to turn off heaters when leaving the room or going to bed and to never use ovens to heat homes.
Some Santa Fe College students have said they don’t like 
the cold weather, but others, like 18-year-old special education major Matthew Fernandez, said they enjoy it.
“Being from Miami, the scenery that’s changed by the 
weather has been beautiful — the leaﬂ  ess trees, the frost on the ground,” the Santa Fe freshman said. “But as far as physically, it’s affected me because I’m not used to waking up and it being 28 degrees.”Temperatures drop below freezing, GFR advises 
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer
One of Gainesville’s classic music venues is making a 
comeback.
The JAM, which closed in December, will be partially 
open starting mid-January. The venue will host private 
events, popular touring bands and an open-mic night tra-
ditionally known as World Wednesday.
They’re calling it “The JAM encore,” co-owner Eddy 
Arenas said.
“The reason we decided to close was because the 
business model wasn’t producing enough to sustain it,” 
Arenas said. “We weren’t making enough money to stay 
open ﬁ  ve nights a week.”
The JAM owners lease the venue on a month-to-month 
basis. After closing, it was difﬁ  cult to say goodbye to the “Jamily” while the spot was still available, Arenas said.
“It took closing for us to give up on the ﬁ  ve- to six-
night-a-week approach,” co-owner Blake Briand said. The key question then became “What can we do?”
Briand said he is aiming to open Jan. 14 to bring back 
World Wednesday, when anyone can perform at the bar. He is working with a few bands like The Heavy Pets and Archnemesis for future shows, but no deﬁ  nite dates have 
been set.
Originally slated to close in November, the venue’s 
popularity kept it running until Dec. 5, when it hosted its — then — ﬁ  nal show.
“We’re not pulling a McRib,” Briand said, alluding to 
the barbecue-ﬂ  avored sandwich periodically offered at McDonald’s. Under the current circumstances, he said 
the team found a solution it had not considered before.
David Nassau has been going to The JAM since his 
freshman year at UF. The 20-year-old marketing junior Nightspot The JAM 
may jam yet again
SEE JAM, PAGE 4 STUDENTS WILL DROP OFF 
COMPUTERS INSTEAD.
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org 
In an attempt to improve custom-
er service by getting rid of appoint-
ments, the UF Computing Help Desk has removed appointments.
Instead, the desk combined the ser-
vice with the laptop drop-off option.
Removing the appointment step 
will improve the turnaround time, said Kiem Tran, assistant manager of the desk.  
“The appointment system could 
get confusing and lengthy,” she said. “We also want to help walk-ins in line for Wi-Fi and email.” 
Everyone who comes to the Help 
Desk will have to complete paper-work about their laptop and leave it 
with the staff, who will get to each job 
as quickly as time allows, wrote Tracy Gale, UF Information and Technol-ogy communications manager, in an email. 
Richard Lowery, manager of the 
desk, said  the change is mainly due to stafﬁ  ng issues. “Our staff has always been small,” 
he said. “We just made the call that it wasn’t feasible to continue working in that capacity.”
Lowery said he expects some dis-
appointment from students, faculty and staff, but the effect remains to be seen. 
UF biology freshman Ashley Go-
mez, 18, said she thinks there are pros and cons to this change.
“It might be good so we don’t have 
to wait in line for people to ﬁ  nish their appointments,” said Gomez. “But it might be hard for (the desk) to keep up.”No more appointments at UF Help Desk “I’m not used to waking up and it being 28 
degrees.”
Matthew Fernandez
Santa Fe special education freshman
“It took closing for us to give up on the ﬁ  ve- 
to six-night-a-week approach.”
Blake Briand
co-ownerNews Today
VOLUME 107 ISSUE 76 ISSN 0889-24232, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva    photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  ecardinali@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Kristin Letsch    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi WickesMONDAY
RAIN
75/61CLOUDY
72/58SUNDAY
SUNNY
59/46SATURDAY
SUNNY
47/30PARTLY 
CLOUDY
58/36FRIDAY TODAYFORECAST WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Peace Corps recruiter now 
available to campus audi-
ences and the Gainesville 
Community 
The UF International Center is pleased to announce Bobbi 
Stienmetz as the new UF 
Peace Corps campus-based 
recruiter. Her priority is 
to promote and strengthen Peace Corps recruitment 
at UF through outreach to 
students, faculty and the 
Gainesville community. 
Gainesville residents are 
also encouraged to contact Stienmetz and set up an ap-
pointment to talk about vol-
unteer opportunities, which 
fall under these general areas: education, youth in 
development, health, com-
munity economic develop-
ment, agriculture and envi-
ronment. The Peace Corps office is located at the UFIC 
in the Hub. Bobbi will be on 
campus Tuesday through 
Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. and will hold office hours Tuesdays from 10 a.m. 
to noon, aas by appointment. 
To contact Bobbi, please call 
352-294-2267 or visit www.
ufic.ufl.edu/RPCV.html.
View personal collections at 
the 36th Collectors Day on Jan. 10
Join the 36th celebration of 
collectors and collections 
at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday. This free 
event has attracted collectors 
from across the Southeast for 
more than 30 years. Enjoy 
viewing personal collections 
and learning the history and 
context of these treasures from Titanic and Beatles 
memorabilia to classic cars. 
Visit with the collectors and 
discover that collecting isn’t 
just for scientists! For more information, call 352-273-
2061.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays Talking Gators meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. 
in Room 1301 of the 
Entomology Building off of 
Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art. For more information, 
go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org. Talking Gators 
is also on Facebook. “The mission of Toastmasters is 
to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience 
in which members are em-
powered to develop com-munication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal 
growth.” All are welcome.
Family FunDay at the Matheson 
History MuseumCelebrate more than 1,500 
years of Gainesville history 
with the installation of the Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to kwiggins@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s news-
paper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter above events, and keep 
them 150 words or few-
er. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
NEWS BRIEF
Almost 1,400 same-sex licenses 
in Florida’s top 28 counties ORLANDO — Almost 1,400 gay and lesbian couples were issued marriage licenses in 28 
of Florida’s most-populous counties in the two days since 
a ban on same-sex marriage was lifted, according to a sur-
vey of clerks’ of court by The 
Associated Press.
The clerks had issued 1,377 li-
censes to same-sex couples as 
of Tuesday evening, the latest 
figures available, in counties 
making up more than 85 per-
cent of Florida’s population of 
19.5 million residents.
In many counties, the number of same-sex marriage licenses 
issued Tuesday was triple, 
even quadruple, the number 
of marriage licenses issued on 
a typical day.
U.S. District Judge Robert L. 
Hinkle’s ruling that Florida’s 
same-sex marriage ban is un-
constitutional took effect in all 67 counties early Tuesday. 
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMatheson’s new perma-
nent exhibition entitled 
“Exploring Our Native 
Heritage,” which features 
a 1,500 year old Timucuan 
canoe. This event, held on 
Jan. 25 from 1 to 4 p.m., 
will also feature Native 
American dancing, edu-
cational activities, face 
painting and much more. Another FunDay, which 
will be held on Feb. 15 at 
the same time, will give 
visitors the opportunity to explore the contributions the African American com-
munity made to blues mu-sic. This event will also fea-ture tours of the Tison Tool 
Barn and the Matheson House.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your for-
eign language skills, make friends, establish new 
contacts, strengthen your 
resume and intern abroad: 
All of these opportuni-
ties will be available at 
the Study Abroad Fair on 
Feb. 4 on the Plaza of the 
Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. For additional infor-
mation, visit ufic.ufl.edu/
sas/index.html or dmc-neil@ufic.ufl.edu
Artist in the Round at 
the Matheson History Museum
Become a part of music 
history. Learn how to be-
come a better writer and 
hear musical masterpieces unfold around you with 
a lesson and presentation 
by the Dixie Desperados 
on Feb. 19 from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Another similar event will 
be on March 12 at the same 
time, featuring a lesson 
and presentation by Stan 
Lynch, the former drum-
mer of Tom Petty and the 
Heartbreakers.
Tampa Red and Hokum 
Blues: Early Roots of Rock 
and Roll
Hear history come alive on 
Feb. 26 with a multimedia 
presentation by the Chair of the Yale Music Department 
entitled “Tampa Red and 
Hokum Blues: Early Roots 
of Rock and Roll.” This 
lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson 
History Museum, exam-
ines how the hokum blues 
of the late 1920s were the 
basis for well-known musi-
cal sensations of the 1950s. 
Admission is free.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
said The JAM’s closure signaled the end of an 
era.
Nassau lived with Briand, so he was one 
of the first JAM-enthusiasts.Although The JAM is reopening, this may 
still be the last string of shows for the venue.
Innovation Square at UF owns the block 
the venue thrives on. Ed Poppell, the director of UF Development Corporation for Innova-
tion Square, said the corporation is selling the property to a developer who plans on replac-
ing it and the surrounding buildings with a 
luxury apartment complex.
Poppell said it’ll be a few months before 
the demolition begins.
As a member of the Innovation Academy, Nassau understands the reasoning behind 
the development plans, but he still has hope 
for his favorite bar.
“I do think we need to maintain a solid 
music venue in town,” Nassau said, “and I think The JAM is the best one we have.”4, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
Cresonia Hsieh / Alligator 
Blaze Fast-Fire’d Pizza employee Dallas Witters, 23, turns pizza in an oven 
using a long paddle at the joint’s meet-and-greet event Wednesday. Pizza will be offered for free again Friday.
 PERSONAL PIZZAS ARE ABOUT $8.
STELLA HEEKIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pizza lovers can kick their new year’s 
resolutions to the curb for a new build-your-
own pizza joint in Gainesville. 
Blaze Fast-Fire’d Pizza held a meet-and-
greet from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wednesday be-fore its grand opening Friday. The restaurant 
served free personal-sized pizzas to hungry customers, utilizing an assembly-line pro-
cess. 
Located at 3617 Archer Road, this Blaze 
Pizza is one of the restaurant’s first locations in Florida with plans to expand to neighbor-
ing states such as Georgia and Tennessee, said Rachel Bledsoe, the public relations di-
rector.
At the meet-and-greet, visitors stood in 
line and picked out toppings before kitchen employees cooked it in a wood-fire oven. 
Customers can choose from a variety 
of traditional pizza toppings, sauces and cheeses — including vegan and gluten-free 
options. Their personal-sized pizzas are just 
under $8, and the restaurant also serves beer 
and wine. 
On Friday, Blaze will be serving up free 
pizza all day from 11 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. to in-troduce people to the new restaurant.
“We encourage people to come out and try 
it,” Bledsoe said.
Wayne Albritton, president of Millennial 
Restaurant Group — which operates Blaze 
Pizza — said the company chose Gainesville 
as the first location in Florida because he thinks the concept is perfect for college 
towns.
“We’re excited most just about being in 
Gainesville,” Albritton said.
Julianne Necuze, a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science junior, said she hasn’t heard about 
Blaze Pizza but thought the concept sounded 
interesting.
With the assembly line concept, Necuze 
said the restaurant could ease the stress of eating out in groups by allowing friends to 
pay separately.
“I’ll definitely try it out,” she said.Make your own pizza without spending all your doughSANTA FE
HUNTER WILLIAMSON 
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Following a series of controversies, Santa Fe College 
Senate President Jeremy Pierce announced Wednesday he 
will not be running for re-election.
He made his announcement during the first Senate 
meeting of 2015, saying that after what he described as 
a “pretty rough semester,” he would be passing on the 
position to another senator.
Pierce said he wanted to announce his decision to give 
senators time to think about whether they want to run.
His decision to bow out comes after months of criti-
cism from Student Government members who said Pierce has threatened to remove senators who oppose — accusa-
tions that he denies.
When asked why he would not be running for re-elec-
tion, he laughed and said, “I want to go ahead and gradu-
ate.”
“Senate needs a Senate president,” he continued, add-ing that he’s considering graduating in December, which would prevent him from filling out the entire yearlong term.
“Knowing that ahead of time, I think it would just be 
irresponsible of me to try and take it on,” he said, adding that there were no other reasons for him not running for re-election.
Director of Internal Affairs Benjamin Myers — a critic 
of Pierce — said it’s normal for students to only serve as Senate president for one semester. 
He added the controversy surrounding Pierce likely 
led to his decision. 
“If there’s fire, most people don’t want to get their feet 
under it,” Myers said. “Hopefully the next Senate presi-dent is better.”
Before he leaves his position, Pierce said he has “tons 
of plans” for SG this semester but would not say what they are.
It is unknown who the potential Senate presidential 
candidates are, but Sen. Connor Levine and Chief Justice Kyle Ramirez have said discussions about the vacancy have begun in SG.
Ramirez has said he is stepping down from his posi-
tion, and Levine has stated that he is content with his cur-rent position as senator.
Shortly after announcing he would not run for re-elec-
tion, Pierce told any senators wishing to run for Senate 
president to stop by his office to “learn the ropes” of the 
role.
“I’m ready to start training,” he said. 
“This is the time, because when March 25 comes, I’ll 
pass the gauntlet, and I’ll be gone.”Santa Fe Senate president declines to run for re-election
The property the bar sits on could become luxury apartments
JAM , from page 1“If there’s fire, most people don’t want to get 
their feet under it.”
Benjamin Myers
director of internal affairsEMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Campus organizations came together 
to promote ethnic, gender, cultural and 
religious studies Wednesday evening at 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Eight campus organizations took 
part in “What’s Your Story? Exploring 
Ethnic, Gender, Cultural, and Religious 
Studies at UF” at 5:30 p.m., which fea-tured a tabling fair and panel of profes-
sors to discuss their cultural specialities.
Hosts included UF’s Arab Student’s 
Association, Asian American Student 
Union, Pride Student Union, Hispanic Student Association, Intercultural En-
gagement, Interfaith Ambassadors, Sa-vant Leadership Honorary and Student 
Government Multicultural Affairs.“Ethnic, cultural and religious 
events are important to UF’s past, pres-ent and future,” said Narayan Kulkarni, 
AASU’s external vice president and the event’s primary organizer. “Students 
should study them in order to become empowered leaders for the future.”
The 20-year-old UF biology junior 
said the event was the first of its kind 
since 2004, when professors hosted a 
panel after the new Asian-American Studies program caused backlash. Ini-
tially, he wanted to organize an event 
exclusively about the Asian-American 
Studies minor, but he said he thought 
it was important to expand it to other 
cultural majors and minors.
The event not only revisited the topic 
of diversity but also tied in UF’s new age rise to preeminence, he said.
For him, the most important aspect 
of the event was the professor panel.
“When you humanize an experi-
ence, that’s the most powerful thing,” 
Kulkarni said. “It connects you to an audience more than reading in a book.”
Members of the panel shared their 
personal experiences and gave insight into the importance of understanding 
different cultures and people.
The panel featured Robin Wright, an 
indigenous religion and anthropology professor; Leonardo Villalón, a profes-
sor of political science and African stud-
ies; Trysh Travis, an undergraduate co-
ordinator for the Center for Women’s Studies and Gender Research; and Phil-
ip Williams, the director of the Center 
for Latin American Studies.
“To be a citizen of this nation and 
this world, you have the responsibility to know the differences and similarities 
between individual to individual and 
country to country,” Travis said.
Exploratory behavioral science 
freshman Laura Palacio said she was 
engaged in the panel’s topics and sto-
ries.
“I found this stuff interesting, and 
I’m thinking about becoming an anthro-
pology major,” said Palacio, 18. “I like 
to see how different other people’s lives 
are because of their cultures.”THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
From left: professors Robin Wright, Leonardo Villalón, Trysh Travis and Philip Wil-
liams speak during a panel at the “What’s Your Story? Exploring Ethnic, Gender, Cultural, and Religious Studies at UF” event Wednesday night in the Reitz Union.
CAMPUSStudent organizations promote diversity 
through event in Reitz Union Wednesday
 POLICE FOUND HIM IN A STOLEN CAR.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A traffic stop Tuesday morning ended in the 
arrest of a wanted felon believed to be part of a 
gang and the recovery of a stolen vehicle.
Police said James Dandy Uyanna, 35, sped 
through a school zone in High Springs shortly 
before 7:30 a.m.
Uyanna then drove away from police until he 
reached a CVS Health Pharmacy drive-thru, ac-
cording to a police report. He got out of his car and ran away before officers caught up.
When officers searched the car, they found 
four stolen car tags from North Carolina; a re-volver on the passenger seat; a 9mm Springfield semi-automatic on the passenger floor; a small 
amount of marijuana; plastic bags full of change; 
27 stolen credit and debit cards in various purs-es throughout the vehicle and in his wallet and pockets; stolen gift cards and a stolen Georgia license. 
The car itself had been stolen from North Car-
olina, and the license tag had been stolen from Georgia, according to the report. He also had $1,300 in cash.
After Uyanna’s arrest, police learned he was 
a convicted felon and was wanted for credit card fraud in North Carolina.
Lt. Antoine Sheppard from High Springs Po-
lice said he suspects that Uyanna is part of the Felony Lane Gang, which is a group of thieves primarily on the East Coast who target cars in parking lots for purses, wallets and license tags.
Police arrested him on 40 charges, including 
grand theft of a vehicle, more than 30 larceny charges, a traffic violation and marijuana posses-sion. As of press time, Uyanna remained at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $432,000 bond. Wanted felon 
arrested during traffic stop
“To be a citizen of this nation 
and this world, you have the 
responsibility to know the 
differences and similarities 
between individual to individual 
and country to country.” 
Trysh Travis
Center for Women’s Studies and Gender 
Research undergraduate coordinatorReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Attack on French 
magazine an attack 
on free speech
It’s safe to guess that by now you’ve heard the news of the 
mass shooting yesterday in France. To say the attack was horriﬁ  c, reprehensible, abhorrent and brutal is true, but those 
words still fail to capture how this feels for us — not to mention what it means to the people of France. In any case, it feels like a 
rehearsal in the litany of words we use when trying to describe 
events like this that leave us utterly dejected.
It has happened again.In case you’ve only seen the ticker-tape version of the news, 
here are the details of the shooting: Yesterday morning, two heavily armed men stormed the ofﬁ  ces of Charlie Hebdo, a sa-tirical French magazine, and murdered 12 people. Among the dead are members of the magazine’s editorial staff and celebrat-ed cartoonists. It is all but conﬁ  rmed the attack was carried out 
in retaliation for the magazine’s history of publishing irreverent 
caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad.
Charlie Hebdo has long been regarded as one of the most 
dedicated publications to free speech and resistance to censor-ship. The irreverent weekly is notorious for inciting the resent-ment of people of all political and religious afﬁ  liations through its bitter satire. In the face of every kind of adversity, Charlie Hebdo has resisted any outside pressure for self-censorship by ramping up the offending actions with mischievous glee.
The magazine began to provoke the ire of radical Islamists in 
2006 when it published the now-infamous Danish cartoons of Muhammad. Negative reactions from extremists, the press and 
French government served only to encourage Charlie Hebdo’s 
staff. Even when its ofﬁ  ce was ﬁ  rebombed in 2011 in response to an edition of the magazine that featured Muhammad as a “guest editor,” Charlie Hebdo continued to taunt violent extremists the best way it knew how. Undaunted by the ﬁ  rebombing and to the chagrin of the French government, it published more carica-tures of Muhammad a year later.
We can only hope that Charlie Hebdo and its satire — which 
must exist if a liberal, democratic tradition is to continue — are 
not defeated by this attack.
But it’s every bit as important that we do not allow this attack 
to color our perceptions of people. By the time this is published, 
pundits and hatemongers will have surely crawled out of their bunkers and begun to spew their pathetic rhetoric at anyone willing to listen.
The predictable backlash against Islam at large is not only 
misguided and simplistic but incredibly disrespectful. Western civilization wasn’t blamed for the actions of Anders Breivik, the 
Norwegian man so disgusted by what he saw as the erosion of 
Western values that he murdered 77 of his own countrymen. Christianity isn’t maligned when anti-abortion extremists gun down OB-GYNs for performing abortions. These things stand alone for what they are: despicable crimes. The attack against Charlie Hebdo should be treated the same. Pretending other-
wise is to prey on ignorance and frustration as well as politically 
beneﬁ  t from a tragedy.
77 TOTAL VOTES90% YES
10% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Do you think 
same-sex couples should get health beneﬁ  ts?Today’s question: Are you cold? Florida needs to take control of its future
At the turn of the New Year, Florida’s population 
surpassed that of New York state, making this the third-most populous state in the country. In 
recent years, migrants have been ﬂ  ocking to the Sun-shine State from the North as part of the expansion of the Sun Belt. 
As Floridians take pride in this achievement, there are 
also a number of issues our state faces.
The southern part of the state is nearing an environ-
mental crisis due to the stagnation and pollution of the 
Everglades, the threat of over-development and the ex-
pectation that climate change will cause sea levels to rise. 
The political ofﬁ  cials in Tallahassee unfortunately show 
no sign of tackling these challenges head-on. 
As our population is increasing, the issue of water 
shortage is coming to the forefront. The overpumping 
of water from the Floridan aquifer has robbed its ability 
to feed our springs during the dry season. 
Everybody remembers what happened in the sum-
mer of 2013 when the Ichetucknee and Santa Fe rivers 
were covered in thick, algae-produced blooms. It was a 
scene that resembled death itself. 
But — unsurprisingly — the 2014 legislative session 
did not pass the bill meant to protect the springs that 
was considered important by many state lawmakers. 
Meanwhile, the cost of inaction increases more and 
more. Reduced ﬂ  ows will cause saltwater to intrude into the aquifer, rendering the water undrinkable. With 
this new set of challenges, the state has steered clear of 
conservation methods but has turned to getting its wa-
ter supply not from ground water but from the surface 
water of rivers and lakes.
Florida still has a long way to go in terms of social 
justice, too. 
To Florida’s credit, same-sex couples can now marry 
and reap the same beneﬁ  ts that married straight couples 
do. But the justice system is fail-
ing many other communities. Florida has increased its num-
ber of private prisons that seek 
to line the pockets of politicians at the expense of young people of color. Focusing on low-level 
crimes to ﬁ  ll prison space is 
immoral and, in many ways, 
costly. 
The counterproductive war on drugs, voter suppres-
sion, the school-to-prison pipeline and an underfunded 
education system serve to destroy communities rather 
than build them. 
The state’s economic failures impact Florida’s future 
as well. Tax incentives and tax abatement policies, part 
of the Legislature’s “job creation” package, seem to 
have failed to attract skilled workers or jobs in manu-facturing and high-end service. 
In fact, the state has only attracted one Fortune 500 
company in the past decade. This is pretty pathetic con-
sidering Florida, once the envy of the region, is a state 
of nearly 20 million people. 
The state has failed to create a climate of innovation 
and attract new industries. But a new year brings new 
beginnings. We as the UF student body have an obliga-
tion to get educated about issues that affect thousands of Floridians each and every day. 
Let’s talk about rebuilding Florida from being the 
butt of national jokes to a state that takes control of its 
future in the 21st century. 
The good news is more and more lonely voices are 
chiming in to tell politicians: No more business as usual. 
No time is better than the start of a new year to begin 
a conversation.
Harold Joseph is a UF political science junior.THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Harold Joseph
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    
Contribute to the Avenue this semester: 
If you’re interested in pop culture (music, movies, 
fashion, you name it), then write for us! Email emichelle@alligator.org for more info. Gainesville High School teacher helps families in need: 
ESOL teacher Louise Yariv accepts household items to donate to her students’ families. Keep up with the Avenue this semester by following @TheAlligator. ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
The holidays may be over, but the second-
best time of the year is just beginning — and 
Trophy Hunting is back once again to cover it all! Awards season kicks off with the 72nd an-nual Golden Globes, which highlights the best 
of the year’s ﬁ  lm and television. What makes 
this ceremony stand out is its dual focus on both mediums rather than just motion pictures, as well as the distinction of Drama and Musi-cal/Comedy categories. Let’s review some of the most notable nominees and the major con-tenders leading the way. (Note: These picks are my own based on my research and personal viewing.)
Best Motion Picture, Drama
The Front-Runner: “Boyhood”
Richard Linklater’s 12-years-in-the-making 
ﬁ  lm about a boy’s growth from ages 5 to 18 has been receiving heavy critical acclaim through-out the past year. It has already won a case full of statues from ﬁ  lm festivals around the world.
The Underdog: “Foxcatcher”The Steve Carell-led story of an Olympic-
winning wrestling duo and their sociopathic sponsor has intrigued audiences this year, par-ticularly with Carell’s unrecognizable transfor-mation into coach John Du Pont.
Who Will Win: “Boyhood”Though strong competitors “The Theory 
of Everything,” “Selma” and “The Imitation Game” make this category very close, the buzz factor of “Boyhood” may give it the determin-ing edge.
Best Actor, Drama
It’s Anyone’s Game…This is arguably the tightest category of the 
night. I had a hard time determining whether 
roles as British geniuses (Eddie Redmayne in “The Theory of Everything,” Benedict Cum-berbatch in “The Imitation Game”), historical leaders (David Oyelowo in “Selma”), eerie pseudo-freelance journalists (Jake Gyllenhaal 
in “Nightcrawler”) or the aforementioned 
Carell would be the one to take home the stat-ue.
Best Actress, Drama
The Front-Runner:  Reese Witherspoon, “Wild”
Witherspoon’s turn as a wayward woman 
hiking her way through the West Coast has garnered the actress lots of accolades. The soul-
searching journey that Witherspoon’s character 
takes is a departure from the rom-com roles the actress is known for.
The Underdog: Jennifer Aniston, “Cake”The former “Friends” star’s turn as a wom-
an who becomes involved with a widower 
(and, through hallucinations, his dead wife) 
intrigued critics this year. The role (and the ac-colades Aniston has been receiving so far) has sparked speculation that the actress may re-ceive her ﬁ  rst Oscar nomination.
Who Will Win: Reese Witherspoon, “Wild”
Though Aniston’s rough portrayal is a 
change from her usual well-maintained perfor-
mances, it may not be enough to tame Wither-spoon’s “Wild” ways.
Best Motion Picture, Musical or Comedy
Who Will Win: “Birdman”
It’s no contest — the Alejandro González 
Iñárritu-directed ﬁ  lm continues to spark inter-est through its long-take style and Michael Ke-aton’s title role performance.Best Actor, Musical or Comedy
The Front-Runner: Michael Keaton, “Birdman”Keaton’s portrayal of a former A-list action 
hero turned Broadway comeback artist is wide-ly regarded as one of the best performances of the year. While the role arguably treads the line between performance and real life (Keaton fa-
mously portrayed Batman in the Tim Burton 
live-action ﬁ  lms), the tongue-in-cheek referenc-es to the theatrical world and celebrity stardom ironically stand out.
The Underdog: Christoph Waltz, “Big Eyes”The man is a two-time Oscar winner. Where 
there is a Waltz, there is a way.
Who Will Win: Michael Keaton, “Birdman”The power of the Waltz aside, Keaton’s got 
the critical and audience-wide momentum to win his ﬁ  rst ever Golden Globe.
Best Actress, Musical or Comedy
Who Will Win: Julianne Moore, “Maps to the 
Stars”
Moore’s role as a damaged, aging performer 
has already won her Best Actress at the Cannes 
Film Festival. Although “Big Eyes” contender Amy Adams is an awards show veteran, the accolades Moore has already received for the role seem to give her the edge.
Moore is also nominated for Best Actress 
in the Musical/Comedy category, making her one of three actors nominated in dual catego-ries this year, alongside Mark Ruffalo and Bill Murray.
Other Notable Categories
For Best Supporting Actress, Patricia Ar-
quette of “Boyhood” faces off against nomi-
nees including Emma Stone of “Birdman” and Madame Oscar herself, Meryl Streep of “Into the Woods.” In the Supporting Actor category, Mark Ruffalo (“Foxcatcher”) and Edward Nor-ton (“Birdman”) may come head-to-head with dark horse nominee J.K. Simmons (“Whip-
lash”).
Best TV Series, Drama
It’s Anyone’s Game…
Since “Breaking Bad” and “Boardwalk Em-
pire” (both previous winners) ﬁ  nished with their respective runs, the likelihood of series like “The Good Wife,” “House of Cards” and “Game of Thrones” winning may have signiﬁ  -cantly increased.
Best TV Series, Musical or Comedy
The Front-Runner: “Orange is the New Black”
The Netﬂ  ix series has only gained more 
traction with its second season — both critical and audience acclaim make it a sure-ﬁ  re leader in this year’s category.
The Underdog: ???Will streaming competitor Amazon Prime’s 
“Transparent” take the lead? Or will Lena Dunham’s self-deprecating charm on HBO’s 
“Girls” overpower the competition?
These are only my predictions, but be sure 
to tune into the ceremony on Sunday on NBC 
at 8 p.m. to see who wins, who loses and who hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler will make fun of. Tweet your picks @AlyssaVHolcomb.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
AP PHOTO
Reese Witherspoon accepts the chairman’s award at the 26th annual Palm Springs 
International Film Festival Awards Gala on Saturday. The actress is nominated for Best Actress in a Drama for “Wild.”
Trophy Hunting 2015: Golden Globes preview
Tonight
“Vanya and Sonia and Ma-
sha and Spike”: Watch a 
comedy about sibling ri-valry at the Hippodrome 
State Theatre at 8 p.m. 
Discounted tickets for to-nightʼs viewing are avail-
able on the Hipp website. 
Friday
Live music at Looseyʼs: Lo-
cal bands Edmonton and 
You Vandal will perform, along with Awkward Age 
from Tampa and Teen 
Agers from Orlando. The show starts at 9 p.m. and 
tickets are $5.
Saturday
Dudley Kids - Thatʼs Wool: 
From 9 to 11 a.m., fami-
lies can head out to the Dudley Farm Historic 
State Park for Dudley 
Kids Day to learn about farming history and to 
take part in hands-on ac-
tivities. Admission is $5.
Sunday
Orchestra: The Jacksonville 
Symphony Orchestra 
will be performing at 
the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts. The show starts at 2 p.m., 
and tickets range from 
$10 to $40 and are avail-able on the Phillips Cen-
ter website. 
Upcoming 
Events THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
EMILY CARDINALI
Avenue Writer
In the turbulence surrounding Seth 
Rogen and James Franco’s “The Inter-
view” emerged a stereotypical, well, Rogen-Franco movie full of frat-boy humor — not a movie worth intense political debate and hackings.
After the debacle in which Sony 
hesitated to release the ﬁ  lm due to pressures from international hackers, canceled the New York premiere and eventually decided to release the ﬁ  lm online in a seemingly act of deﬁ  ance, Sony has proﬁ  ted big time. The movie 
(which has a rating of 51 percent on 
Rotten Tomatoes) raked in $18 mil-lion, The New York Times reported, and $15 million of that was from on-
line sales only.
Did the controversy surrounding 
its release bolster sales? I’ll go ahead 
and venture to say yes. People who otherwise would not have watched 
the movie now had easy access to it and were probably 
drawn to it, if not for the unwarranted po-litical turmoil then for the fact that even President Barack Obama got involved. 
In early December, the president said he wished Sony had discussed the release with him, mentioning that he thought Sony should have released the movie, according to the Hufﬁ  ng-ton Post.
But would the president have ap-
proved the movie with close-ups of Rogen’s boner, unoriginal jokes that play off of stereotypes, another mov-
ie that plays into Westerners’ ideas 
of foreign countries? In the face of 
the threats of “9/11-like violence,” I would hope not.
The problem with “The Interview” 
is not that it is brainless comedy — I 
didn’t expect anything more from it. 
The problem here lies in the fact that Sony had an opportunity to educate Westerners about the severity of the situation in North Korea and com-pletely ﬂ  opped. Yes, famine was de-picted, and yes, the lavish life of the dictator was shown, but for a movie that resulted in Sony workers’ private information being leaked by hackers, you would hope that the violation of privacy was somehow warranted.
When North Korean defector Kim 
Joo-il watched the movie, he told Lucy Edwards from Dazed that, “It cannot help us to understand North Korean 
people.” Joo-il knows of the actual 
atrocities found in the country, be-cause during his time in the military when he was sent to ﬁ  nd military de-
serters, he also found mounds of dead 
bodies in train stations — people who 
had starved to death.
But I guess I shouldn’t have ex-
pected a sense of understanding the 
culture in this movie, especially once 
those hackers released emails between 
top ﬁ  lm producers making racist jokes about our own president’s humor.
‘The Interview’ not worth hack, debateﬁ l m
 Men don’t experience as much anxiety in the kitchen.
KELSI AND KERI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
The constant presence of the 
male chef on food-related TV 
shows and the rising number of 
books, magazines and blogs about men’s cooking seems to indicate a 
growing enthusiasm for cooking 
among men. Indeed, American men are spending about twice as much time in the kitchen com-pared to the 1960s.
Cooking can be experienced as 
a pleasurable leisure activity or as an obligation to others and is not straightforwardly gendered. Yet research suggests a rising pas-sion for cooking among men that does not incur the same anxieties as it does for women. It’s not that women don’t enjoy cooking. In-deed, many draw satisfaction and pleasure from feeding themselves and others. However, women of-ten experience negative feelings as well because of things like time pressures, difﬁ  culties of childcare and anxieties about the health and taste preferences of their family.
As opposed to women’s cook-
ing as work, men’s cooking as leisure may be because of their distance from day-to-day care ob-ligations and less preoccupation about others’ preferences, health and approval. They also have more ﬂ  exibility as far as when and 
how they cook, and less of their 
identity is invested in feeding and caring for others.
Also, cooking as leisure for 
men might be inﬂ  uenced by pop-
ular cultural discourses. Men’s 
cooking on food-related TV shows and in ﬁ  lms is framed as a display for professional skill or leisurely 
entertainment, while women’s 
cooking, even by cooking show 
hosts, is portrayed as mundane. Compare Bobby Flay and Rachael Ray of the Food Network 24-hour 
cooking channel. Ray directly ad-
dresses the challenge of providing meals efﬁ  ciently 
and economical-ly in “30-Minute Meals,” while Flay dominates both the grill and brunch in “Bobby Flay’s 
Barbecue Addiction” and “Brunch at Bobby’s.” The two shows pro-vide a model for men enjoying cooking at the same time as pro-tecting their masculinity. By cook-
ing at the grill or playing with 
ﬁ  re, and at brunch, a once-a-week meal associated with relaxed time and abundance of food, Flay 
cooks in two spaces deemed safe 
for men. Men are still able to be 
masculine when cooking in zones free of women.
Yet, will this rise of men cook-
ing for leisure spill over into day-
to-day cooking? One would only 
think (and hope) so. As men gain more conﬁ  dence and knowledge about cooking, the desire to cook 
everyday meals more frequently 
may also rise.
Men’s cooking more about leisure 
F   R   I  E   N   D  S  
edition
KRISTAN WIGGINS
Avenue Writer
So no one told you life would bring you “Friends” on the 
silver platter that is Netﬂ  ix. All 238 episodes of the decade-old 
sitcom came with the New Year, and it even has Central Perk frequent visitors reliving the highlights: the will-they-won’t-they Ross and Rachel; the fan-favorite, sarcastic Chandler; and, oh my God, don’t forget Janice. For those of you unconvinced to watch it again, might I remind you that you don’t have to wait for reruns or get up after every sixth episode to change the DVD in the box set. Whether you’re reliving the ‘90s for the umpteenth time or experiencing it for the ﬁ  rst time, here’s a drinking game to take you from opening song to ending credits.
Every week the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week for “Gilmore Girls.”Opening credits - Drink, but make sure you do the four claps
Joey doesnʼt understand - Drink
Phoebe sings - Drink, and ﬁ  nish the drink if itʼs “Smelly Cat”
Ross talks about dinosaurs or his ex-wife - Drink
Rachel gets the orders wrong as a waitress - Drink
Monica is OCD - Drink  
Chandler makes a lame joke - Drink
One of the friends goes on a date - Drink  
One of the friends is shown at work - Drink
EW, Ugly Naked Guy is doing (ﬁ  ll in the blank) - Drink
Fun with animals - Drink if you see Marcel, the chick or the duck
Famous guest star is shown - Drink
The gang is at Central Perk - Waterfall through the scene
Gunther pines after Rachel - Finish your drink for the poor man
Janice episode - Drink everything in sight10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
ELLEN VILLAFUERTE
Avenue Writer
If you ask Louise Yariv how long she and her hus-
band have been donating items to families in need, she’ll 
chuckle and won’t give you a straight answer.
“Sometimes we say 15 years, sometimes we say 20,” 
she said.
Yariv, a 64-year-old English for Speakers of Other Lan-
guages teacher at Gainesville High School originally from 
New York, was given a couch by a family moving to Bra-
zil after they decided not to bring it with them. Yariv gave that couch away. She didn’t know it at the time, but that couch would be the first of many donations she would end up making. That first donation would eventually 
spark the idea for what is now known as the ESOL Closet.
Yariv has been a teacher for the last 37 years. After 
attending the University of Wisconsin-Madison as an 
undergraduate student and earning her master’s degree 
in ESOL in Boston, she taught Spanish for three years 
in America’s Walking City. She also met her husband, Yossie Yariv, through relatives in New York and moved to his birthplace, Israel, where she taught ESOL for nine years. She taught special education in Ocala and at West-
wood Middle School in Gainesville. For the last 23 years, 
Louise has been a teacher at Gainesville High School, and she said they have been the best years of her life.
“This is my dream job,” she said. “This is the job that 
I wanted.”
Louise keeps busy at the high school, from running 
the ESOL Closet to teaching five classes to being the co-sponsor of the International Club. Her classroom, 23-011, is filled with couches rather than desks, and her room 
is usually filled with students — even during her lunch 
break.
“Students are nervous enough to be speaking English 
in front of people, so I wanted to make it a more comfort-
able setting,” Louise said. “I love that in my class, I build 
a feeling of community. It’s really important to me, so that they feel like they’re all in this together.”
Although Louise has been teaching for decades, it was after that casual couch donation that she realized along with being a teacher, helping those in need was what she wanted to do. Running the closet for as long as Louise has is no easy feat, and she credits the support of her hus-
band, the community and the school for her being able to 
help so many people.
“We see ourselves as the middleman. If we didn’t have 
people who were generous to donate, to take the time to call me, to write me, set up when we can come in and get 
things, if we didn’t have those people, we’d never be able 
to do it,” she said.
The ESOL Closet is a two-person team, according to 
Louise. She said that without her husband, she wouldn’t 
be able to help as many families, and he agrees.
“She finds the students,” Yossie said. “I’m the driver 
and muscle behind it. I’m sure Louise wouldn’t carry a 
couch to the third floor of the building.”
To advertise the closet to families in Gainesville, a let-
ter is sent to anyone with the school board of Alachua 
County email address three times a year. However, the 
ESOL Closet’s popularity didn’t skyrocket until a couple of months ago, around the end of the Spring 2014 semes-ter at UF. Someone posted an advertisement for the ESOL 
Closet on a Facebook group page, “Free & For Sale,” ask-
ing students to, instead of just throwing away or selling items such as furniture in decent condition, donate it to Louise for her closet.
“Then, it exploded. People started graduating and 
started calling us right then,” she said. “I think a lot of UF students do want to do something with their furniture and not just throw it out, and so they were happy to find someone to come and pick it up.”
Although business does slow down during the semes-
ter, Louise still gets calls, and if she needs to pick up do-nations, she and her husband are more than willing to do so. They even have transportation solely for picking up 
items, which first started with a truck that was donated to 
her. When that truck died six-and-a-half years later, they got another one. Louise is happy to pick up anything that can be donated, and all she asks for in return is gas money 
for the truck she tries to keep self-sufficient. That truck 
plays an important role in getting items — used furniture, clothes, shoes and appliances, just to name a few — to the three rooms at Gainesville High School and the storage unit paid for by money that Louise has raised, and into 
the hands of those who are missing basic necessities.
Although her ESOL students and families get first dibs, 
she works closely with homeless advocates and provides 
furniture to those recently taken off the streets and placed 
into an apartment. She also works with recent migrants to 
help them get on their feet.
“When you come from another county, you can only 
carry two suitcases, and they’re only 50 pounds each suit-case, and you’re paying for the second suitcase, you can’t 
carry very much with you,” she said,” and if they’re just 
getting established, then we try to help them.”
Louise knows that everyone who comes by the school 
and sifts through donations and takes what they need is 
thankful.
“They’re very modest about what they take and what 
they ask for,” she said. “Every family is very apprecia-
tive.”
Although Yariv may not have had the same back-
ground growing up as the families who come in to take donations — she grew up in a “solid, middle-class fam-ily” — she grew up watching her parents volunteer for various organizations, and by starting the ESOL Closet, 
she found her niche and found a way to affect Gainesville 
in positive way.
“I know how lucky I was growing up,” she said. “I 
know that when the kids were sleeping on the floor, and we brought a bed — that’s very powerful.”
The ESOL Closet is Louise’s way of giving back to the 
community, and the community has shown its apprecia-tion. In 2013, Yariv was unknowingly nominated for the Spirit of Gainesville award, and although she didn’t win, 
it was nice surprise for her. The following year, she won 
the Public Citizen of the Year Award from the Gainesville Unit of the National Association of Social Workers. Her peers agree that she has earned that award.
“She’s an excellent teacher, really, an ambassador,” 
said Deborah Sakalla, a substitute ESOL teacher at Gainesville High School. “She is a living legacy.”
After an uncertain amount of years as the name behind 
the ESOL Closet, its future remains unknown. Louise 
plans to retire at the end of the school year, but neither 
she, nor her husband, have any plans to abandon the clos-et or those in need.
“The need is getting greater and greater,” Louise said.For now, the three closets at Gainesville High School 
continue to be full of boxes of winter clothes, snacks for the kids, handbags and other items that haven’t yet been sorted. Benches continue to sit on either side of the door-way of Room 23-011, a room full of couches, educational 
posters and children. Louise continues to make her kids 
feel comfortable speaking English, she continues to plan events for her after-school club and she continues to be the middleman for helping the community.    Gainesville High School teacher helps families in need
Laura Palomino / Alligator
Louise Yariv, an ESOL teacher at Gainesville High School, stands in one of her three closets full of donations. Yariv 
donates household items to her students’ families, as well as to families who have recently moved to the U.S. 
To donate items, contact Louise Yariv at yarivls@
gm.sbac.edu or at or 352-955-6707. Donations can be picked up or dropped off. 
Items you can donate:local
She takes donations for students’ families
“Students are nervous enough to be speaking 
English in front of people, so I wanted to make 
it a more comfortable setting. I love that in my 
class, I build a feeling of community. It’s really 
important to me, so that they feel like they’re all 
in this together.”
Louise Yariv
Gainesville High School teacherFurnitureKitchenwareFoodCleaning suppliesAppliancesClothesAccessoriesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy 
fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1660/mo 3413 
NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.
com 352-339-2342    1-9-14-4-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short 
walk to bus stop, large yard for fun or garden, 
fireplace, dishwasher, game room, central 
heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text or call 352-339-2342    1-9-14-4-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Within 1 1/2 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly car-peted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest contrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $680/mo. Call 727-423-9463    1-9-15-3-2One bedroom, one bath for rent in
2 bedroom town house at Mill Pond 
with pool and tennis court, across from 
Gainesville health and fitness on Newberry 
Road, near the Oaks Mall.
Prefer UF male student.
$650/month, utilities included in rent.
Call 813-650-3218
1-9-15-3-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Available Aug 1st 3BR/2BA nice house, 1 blk from campus. W/D provided, hardwood floors & tile, dishwasher, central H/A, etc. 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo. Text/call 352-339-2342. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UPPAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!$300 & UP!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-9-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  $8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-9-14-11-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-13-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description.E-mail resume and day/year-round avail -
ability to info@thornebrookchocolates.com.    1-13-15-5-14
Sun Country Sports is accepting
applications for all depts., incl. rock-climbing, 
swim, summer camp, parties, gymnastics,
cleaning & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
1-13-15-5-14
Homework coach wanted for 7th grade boy with Aspergers. Tues, and Thurs, 3:30-5:30 preferred, Pick up from school or bus, home-work at library, drop off at home. $10/hour. E-mail qualifications to:ceramix@cerazone.net    1-12-15-4-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14, 
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for 
a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14EXTENDED DAY
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM 
IS NOW HIRING
ALACHUA COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
****ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES/ SPORTS - $10//hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
****CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS - $10/hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
Hours required - M,T, Th, F - 12:45-5:30PM
Wed. 12:30-5:30PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
For more information call : 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
1-14-15-6-14Mechanical and Electrical Engineer Needed. Graduate student or senior preferred. Part time, flexible hours. Project list, NDA req, resume/CV, copy of DL, recommendations. $25-$30/hr. Call 850-508-9601, Dr Jones.    1-12-15-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Gators in the NBA
Corey Brewer scored 12 points on 4-of-8 shooting 
in the Houston Rockets’ 105-93 win against the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday.Quoteable
“The last thing I want is a bunch of dead trout hanging around.”
Jim McElwain, UF football coachMike Holloway and UF track and field are preparing for their season opener. Read the story on Page 16.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
Florida may have been two players 
short in its Southeastern Conference open-er against South Carolina on Wednesday, 
but it wasn’t short on production.
The Gators (8-6, 1-0 SEC) defeated the 
Gamecocks (9-4, 0-1 SEC) 72-68 at the Co-
lonial Life Arena in Columbia, South Caro-lina.
Like Florida’s game against UConn on 
Saturday, Wednesday’s game came down 
to free throws.
The Gators made 25 of 30 free throws while the Gamecocks made 23 of 27. 
Florida’s 83.3 free throw percentage was 
a major improvement from its 40 percent against UConn.
Redshirt junior forward Dorian Finney-
Smith led the Gators with 20 points, four of which he made off free throws.
The Gators snapped the Gamecocks 
seven-game win streak—their longest win 
streak in 11 years. 
Wednesday marked Florida’s seventh 
straight win over South Carolina. 
The Gators improved to 43-22 in the all-
time series against the Gamecocks.
After trailing the Gators for almost the 
entire first half, the Gamecocks secured a 
34-31 lead they would take into halftime off a three-point shot from sophomore point 
guard Duane Notice. 
Notice finished the game with five 
points and two rebounds in 27 minutes.
Florida regained the lead off a free throw 
from walk-on senior forward Jacob Kurtz 
with 11:37 minutes left in second quarter and did not let it go.
In 24 minutes played, Kurtz ended the 
game with eight points, six of which he made off seven free throw attempts.
Regardless of the win, Florida struggled 
in various areas on Wednesday, the great-
est area being personal fouls. 
Sophomore point guard Kasey Hill 
Megan Reeves / Alligator
Dorian Finney-Smith drives into the paint during Florida’s 65-63 loss to Florida State on Dec. 30 in Tallahassee. Finney-Smith 
scored 20 points in UF’s Southeastern Conference-opening win against South Carolina on Wednesday.
Finney-Smith leads UF to SEC-opening win over South Carolina
FOOTBALL
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Jim McElwain’s staff is still one short.
After announcing the hiring of six staff 
members on Monday in addition to defensive 
coordinator Geoff Collins and offensive coor-
dinator Doug Nussmeier, all the new Florida head coach is missing is a wide receivers coach.
But McElwain said Wednesday he does 
not plan to make any rash choices.
“I’m waiting on me to make a decision,” he 
said.
Akin to playing chess, McElwain said he is 
adamant about making the right decision for the long run rather than a quick one that looks smart in the short run.
“There’s a lot of components that go into 
that. … Am I just going to throw a dart at that board over there? No,” McElwain said. “Do I have a firm short list? Yeah. Am I ready to pull the trigger the plug right now and go at 
it? We’ll make it right.”
McElwain still evaluating offense: During 
his introductory press conference, McElwain 
joked about calling his offense the “Humane 
Society” because the Gators will adapt to 
whatever talent they have in their possession.
But McElwain has yet to figure out exactly Notebook: McElwain looking for 
right fit at wide receivers coach
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
In the minds of coach Amanda Butler 
and her players, the Southeastern Con-
ference is its own season. 
Yet with two SEC games under its 
belt, Florida (9-6, 1-1 SEC) is making 
sure not to get ahead of itself.  Tonight’s 
game against Ole Miss (11-4, 1-1 SEC) is no exception — the Rebels are 5-1 over their last six games, the lone loss coming to then-No. 11 Kentucky on the road. 
Ole Miss has received strong play 
from senior Tia Faleru, who comes into Gainesville averaging 16.3 points and 10.7 rebounds per game. 
“We’ve got to be really, really dili-
gent about boxing her out and just mak-ing sure when there is rotation that we communicate so that she doesn’t go un-checked,” Butler said. “She can hurt you in a lot of different ways.”
Luckily for Florida, Faleru’s game 
is focused on playing in the post. The Gators have struggled defending the 
three-point line as of late, losing close 
games to Eastern Washington and LSU UF Women’s basketball 
preps defense for Ole Miss
SEE MCELWAIN, PAGE 15SEE WHOOPS, PAGE 15SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15“There’s gonna be a lot of 
physical challenges, theres gonna 
be a lot of grabbing and holding. 
And I think our guys met that 
challenge.”
 Billy Donovan 
UF Coachfouled out of the game 
with less than two minutes remaining, and freshman 
guard Chris Chiozza fouled 
out with six seconds left to play. 
Junior guard Eli Carter 
ended the night with three fouls and Finney-Smith had four.
“There’s gonna be a lot of 
physical challenges, there’s 
gonna be a lot of grabbing 
and holding,”  Donovan said in a post-game radio broadcast. “And I think our 
guys met that challenge.”
Transfer center Jon Hor-
ford’s presence was notice-
ably absent from the open-ing tip.  
Horford and walk-on 
freshman guard Zach Hod-skins were both suspended by Donovan for “conduct 
detrimental to the team” ac-
cording to a release. 
Neither traveled with 
the team to Columbia.
“This is totally a coach-
ing decision and has noth-ing to do with the univer-sity,” Donovan said in the release. “Our focus now is 
on this next game and play-
ing with the guys we have here.” 
Donovan will reevalu-ate Horford and Hodskins’ eligibility to play in the Gators’ next game at home against Mississippi State on 
Saturday upon the team’s 
return to Gainesville from South Carolina.
“We overcame a lot to-
day and that was encourag-ing,” Donovan said.
In the 12 games he has 
played in, Horford has av-eraged 8.3 points and 5.7 
rebounds.
Horford’s second ever 
blog post for the Huffington 
Post, entitled “What Will 
Ever Be Enough?” pub-
lished on Wednesday.
Horford has said he will 
be blogging for the publica-tion regularly throughout 
the season, though he only 
has one other previous post from March 26, 2014.
“It’s when you turn on 
your television and the talk-ing heads tell you that you need to be rich, famous, and flawless; that your thirst for more becomes unquench-
able,” Horford writes in 
the blog post that was pub-lished just two hours before the news of his suspension 
was released. 
“You forget that you are 
enough.” 
A radio broadcast contrib-
uted to this report.
what pieces he has to work with.
“Our offense is going to fit to 
the personnel that we have,” McEl-
wain said. 
“Now, I don’t know about the 
personnel that we have. I saw prac-tice, I saw a game, I haven’t been with them in offseason workouts to see how they’re wired, and I’m get-
ting that. So until we do that, we’ll 
fit whatever we need to do.”
Shannon was always on McEl-
wain’s radar: McElwain knew he 
wanted Randy Shannon on his 
staff.
Shannon, a former head coach at 
the University of Miami and most recently the linebackers coach at 
Arkansas, was hired Monday as 
UF’s associate head coach, co-de-fensive coordinator and lineback-ers coach.
“He was a guy that was at the 
top of my list from a standpoint of the people and how they speak about his integrity, his discipline and his organization and his ball coaching ability,” McElwain said. “The thing that gets lost, man, this guy is a great ball coach.”
Shannon will also have a role in 
recruiting even though it is not in his job title.
“I don’t get into titles,” McEl-
wain said. “I never have.”
Recruiting: With just less than 
four weeks until National Signing Day, McElwain and his staff need to make a big push to get recruits.
His class is currently only eight 
players deep — only 12 FBS schools have smaller classes — and is tied for 94th in the country with Mem-
phis.
“We’ve gotten great buzz and 
yet time will tell as we move for-
ward on that end of it,” McElwain said. “But obviously the guys that 
we put in place have value to these 
recruits as they want to perfect their craft at their individual positions moving forward. That’s something 
that we had to do.” THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brooke Copeland attempts a three-point shot during Florida’s 59-54 
win against Stetson on Dec. 14 in the O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain speaks at his introductory press conference on Dec. 6. With a month left until National Signing Day, McElwain’s 2015 recruiting class has just eight verbal commitments.
Copeland progressing in freshman year
due to sharp three-point shooting from 
opposing guards. 
Florida enters tonight’s contest sur-
rendering just 23.3 of its 60.5 points per game in the paint to opponents, a prod-
uct of the influx of height that freshmen 
Haley Lorenzen and Brooke Copeland have provided for a team that has sore-ly missed height in recent seasons. 
“I think that they’ve improved tre-
mendously,” Butler said of the fresh-men. “You hope to see your freshmen on that upward trajectory and I think that both of them — and Dee (Ander-
son) as well — we’re just seeing new 
parts of their game and their confidence will grow and build as we go.”
Copeland also boosts Florida’s 
three-point shooting, which has strug-gled as of late. The Gators come into to-night’s game averaging 32 percent from beyond the arc.
“I know I can shoot,” Copeland said, 
“but just being able to do that in a big game like that is a different story.”
Defensively, the team has excelled, 
an evolution that can be attributed to the defensive-minded training camp dubbed Camp Hector the team held in the offseason. 
“We’ve got to find things we can 
consistently rely on, and I think the way 
we rebounded at Auburn and the way 
we defended at Auburn are things that we feel like we can hang our hat on,” Butler said. “If we knock down shots, then great. That’s going to go hand-in-hand with great defense.”W-HOOPS , from page 14
Florida has only eight recruits with signing day approaching
MCELWAIN , 
from page 14HOOPS , from page 14Horford, Hodskins 
suspended before win
Game Info
Location:  O’Connell Center 
(Gainesville, Florida)
Tipoff:  7 p.m.
TV: FSN/Sun Sports/ESPN3
Series Record:  Florida 
leads 19-14KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
While both the Florida 
men’s and women’s track 
and ﬁ  eld teams begin the sea-
son at the top of the collegiate 
polls, the Gators do not feel that is enough to satisfy their goals.
Much like a 60-meter 
dash, the ﬁ  nish is what mat-ters the most.
Regardless of their pre-
season rankings, the Gators 
have one goal in mind: bring 
home an NCAA title to Gainesville.“We all want to win a na-
tional championship,” junior sprinter Antwan Wright said. “We all want to wear rings 
and have the nice dinner that 
the school gives us. We just want to win.”
Florida returns quality 
depth on both teams.
The men bring back all but 
two athletes who earned All-America honors last season, including Bowerman Trophy 
Watch List members Dedric 
Dukes and Marquis Dendy.
The women’s team loses 
just three of its All-Ameri-
cans — Cory McGee, Ebony Eustey and Agata Strausa.
Despite the high ranking, 
coach Mike Holloway does 
not feel that his team is walk-
ing with a target on its back.
“We look at it as a chal-
lenge,”  said Holloway, who 
is in his 13th season as the 
Gators’ head coach. 
“(The ranking) is very ﬂ  at-
tering, but at the same time 
we have to keep competing.”
The Gators are set to start 
the season at the UAB Blazer Invitational in Birmingham, Alabama, on Friday. 
Last season, Florida 
clinched 13 victories and broke 10 meet records at the meet.
While Holloway usually 
views the ﬁ  rst meet of the 
season as a chance to initally 
evaluate the team, he also holds high expectations from his players from the get-go.
“We’re trying to ﬁ  gure out 
where we are and what we need to improve on,” Hollo-way said. 
“I expect nothing more 
than for everyone to compete at a high level.”
Holloway’s high-standard 
mentality has found its way 
to translate over to the play-
ers.
“My fall training was awe-
some,” said sprinter Shayla Sanders. 
“Coach Holloway was 
always there to set us in the zone. I think this season is going to be my season. I just 
have to keep going forward, 
put God ﬁ  rst, and everything is going to work out.”
Wright, who came .08 sec-
onds away from breaking Jeff 
Demps’ school record in the 
60-meter dash at last year’s NCAA Championships, is less concerned with setting a 
new mark and more focused 
on his own performance.
“I go into each race think-
ing, ‘what can I do better in this race than what I did in 
last race?’ If I go out there 
chasing times, the times won’t come,” Wright said. 
“But if I go out there and 
have fun, the times will come.”16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Antwan Wright (2589) races in the 200-meter dash during the Tom Jones Memorial Invite on 
April 19 at UF’s Percy Beard Track.
STAFF REPORT
Stanford forward Schuyler Rimmer 
transferred to Florida and will join the UF men’s basketball team as a walk-on, UF announced Wednesday.
Rimmer will have to sit out a year due 
to NCAA transfer rules. 
He will be eligible to compete for the 
Gators following the Fall 2015 semester.
The 6-foot-10 sophomore played in 16 
career games for the Cardinal, going 3 of 9 from the ﬁ  eld and bringing down 11 re-bounds in 75 minutes of action.
Rimmer will join a frontcourt next sea-
son that includes sophomore Chris Walk-er, redshirt junior Alex Murphy, sopho-more John Egbunu and freshman Devin Robinson. Egbunu, a 6-foot-11 center, 
will not play this season after transferring 
from the University of South Florida.
The Gators also have a recruiting class 
that includes three forwards who have 
given their verbal commitments to UF ac-
cording to Rivals.com — four-star power 
forward Noah Dickerson, three-star pow-
er forward Kevarrius Hayes and three-star strong forward Keith Stone.
Rimmer was a three-star recruit out of 
Orlando Boone High School in 2013, and during his high school recruitment verbal-ly committed to Florida in August of 2012 before eventually ﬂ  ipping his commit-
ment to Stanford. He averaged 15 points, 
13.5 rebounds and 4.5 blocks per game in 
his senior year, being named ﬁ  rst-team all-state in the process.Stanford big 
man transfers to FloridaTRACK AND FIELD
UF ignoring rankings as season opener nears