VOLUME 109 ISSUE 100 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Folk duo stops in GNV to perform at 
house concert
The pair performed over the weekend, pg. 10. GRU helps some pay utility bills
It’s asking customers for valentines disguised as donations, pg 3.  
Santa Fe Student Senate struggles to meet quorum again
One student compared it to a season of “Bad Girls Club,” pg 5. Freshman point 
guard Chris Chiozza  
and the UF men’s 
basketball team host 
Ole Miss tonight. 
Read the story on 
page 14.
70/30
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Give Me 20
Marine Corps Sgt. Matthew Boulden does pull-ups at a recruitment event near the Reitz Union on Wednesday afternoon. Boulden was looking for undergraduate students who may be interested in joining ofﬁ  cer training programs.
CAMPUS
PAIGE LEVIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rebecca Birkholz wishes she 
had her mother’s maiden name of 
O’Keefe to further her connection to her Irish roots.
Eager for an opportunity to ex-
plore her heritage, 20-year-old Birk-holz is one of many waiting for vali-dation for the recent proposal of a free trip to Ireland for young adults of Irish descent.In late January, Jimmy Deeni-
han, Ireland’s minister for the dias-pora, suggested a plan that would connect people of Irish descent ages 18 to 26 with their culture, provid-ing a trip to Ireland for 10 days with all expenses paid.
Birkholz said people should 
jump at the chance.
“As a student at this point in our 
lives, knowing about the outside world and where you come from is really important,” said Birkholz, a UF international studies and politi-cal science junior.
The country hopes such a pro-
gram would strengthen ties among the Irish diaspora — people of Irish descent scattered throughout the world. While in Ireland, partici-
pants would immerse themselves 
in Gaelic history and culture.
After years of watching her Jew-
ish friends explore their heritage for free on the 10-day trip to Israel through the Taglit-Birthright Expe-rience, Birkholz said she would be lucky to have a similar experience in Ireland.
UF Hillel’s Israel engagement 
coordinator Gia Campana said she believes the program could be as successful as Birthright.
“Anything that really provides 
an opportunity for students to ex-plore where they come from, if done the right way, could be suc-cessful,” Campana said.
She said most students she sends on Birthright identify as Jew-ish but don’t know exactly what that means. Programs like Birth-right also provide an opportunity for people of different cultures to share one bond.
“It’s really important to grab 
people at this age when they’re trying to explore who they are and what they believe in and where they come from and really show 
Potential Irish heritage trip similar to Birthright
SEE IRELAND, PAGE 4
OLIVIA VEGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
As voter registration for the upcoming city election 
comes to a close Monday, some are questioning the efﬁ  ciency of Florida’s system.
Students from all over the state will attend UF’s 
second annual Future of Florida Summit Feb. 20 to 
22 to discuss public policy and issues currently fac-
ing Floridians, featuring the topic of the online voter registration bill.
The nearly 100 students attending the conference 
will come up with a plan to support the bill, which will be voted on in the upcoming Florida legislative session, said Frances Chapman, a summit student or-ganizer and UF political science junior.
“This conference is literally building a team of lead-
ers who are getting the best political education, the best political experience they could possibly get,” Chap-man, 20, said. “We are building a new type of confer-ence here in the state, and I ﬁ  nd that very exciting.”Student summit 
aims for onlinevoter registration
 ONE FORUM IS 10 A.M. FRIDAY IN DAUER HALL.
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
There are three ﬁ  nalists in the search for a new dean for UF’s 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
An open forum will be held on campus this week until 
Tuesday, giving students an opportunity to interact with the 
ﬁ  nalists and ask questions.
The candidates are David Richardson, chemistry professor and interim dean of the UF College of Liberal Arts and Scienc-es; Ann Cudd, vice provost and dean of undergraduate studies 
at the University of Kansas; and Christopher Long, associate 
dean for graduate and undergraduate studies at Penn State University. 
Alisson Clark, senior writer for UF media relations, wrote in 
an email that two student members of the search committee are helping to facilitate the student meetings — one undergradu-ate and one graduate. 
“The search committee is not participating in the special ses-
sions as a group, but there may be members of the search com-mittee at the sessions,” she said. 
Elaine Turner, chairwoman of the search committee, wrote 
in a statement that the results will be collected and distributed to the search committee and then to the provost.
“I would expect anyone on the search committee who par-
ticipated in any of the interview sessions, including the student forums, to bring their perceptions to the whole committee,” she said. 
Open sessions with students will be Friday from 10 to 11 
a.m. in Dauer Hall, Room 219, and same time Tuesday in Pugh Hall, Room 210. For the full schedule, go to alligator.org.UF CLAS to host open student forums in search for new deanSEE SUMMIT, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 100 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
SUNNY
63/43SUNNY
55/30SUNNY
63/39SUNNY
55/30SUNNY
70/30
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. girls living in the developing 
world, ordinary girls who confront tremendous chal-lenges and overcome nearly impossible odds to pursue 
their dreams. Prize-winning 
authors put the girls’ remark-able stories into words, and renowned actors give them voice. A discussion will fol-low the screening. Join today at 3 p.m. at the International Center.
Valentine’s Swing Dance
Florida Swing Dancing Club is hosting a Valentine’s Dance on Friday at the Unified Training Center from 8 p.m. to midnight. There will be lots of food, games, music and dancing. There are les-sons for all levels from 8 to 
9 p.m. After the lessons, at-
tendees can meet new people and practice what they’ve learned during the social dance. Previous dancing ex-perience or a dance partner are not necessary. Please visit floridaswingdancing.com for more details.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after above events, and keep them to 150 words WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Cupid’s Consent Event
Attend Cupid’s Consent Event today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. There will be relationship-building 
games and activities. Visit all 
the booths to collect prizes, in-cluding a free T-shirt. Visitors can also get a picture taken with Cupid. Like the Facebook STRIVEUF page or go to ga-torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive for more information.
Three Minute Thesis Competition 
registrationThe UF Graduate School, in col-laboration with the Graduate Student Advisory Council, is hosting its second Three Minute Thesis Competition in April. The competition chal-lenges doctoral (Ph.D. or Ed.D) 
students to present their dis-
sertation research to a non-technical audience in three minutes or less. Preliminary heats will be held March 10 to determine finalists for the grand finale event on April 7 in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Along with helping graduate 
students hone their communi-
cation and presentation skills, winners will be awarded cash prizes. Registration is open un-til Friday. For more information and to register please visit grad-school.ufl.edu/3MT. This com-petition is open to international students.
Screening of ‘Girl Rising’
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard E. Robbins, “Girl Rising” journeys around the globe to witness the strength of the human spirit and the power of education to change the world. Viewers get 
to know nine unforgettable or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
A headline on a story from 
Wednesday’s paper incorrectly stated that IFAS is to introduce a new sustainability initiative. 
The Office of Sustainability is 
introducing the initiative. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
LOCAL
 THEY’RE COLLECTING DONATIONS.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Gainesville Regional Utilities is giving 
back.
The utility service provider is asking 
customers to give valentines — disguised 
as monetary donations — to help residents 
struggling to meet utility payments. 
The Project SHARE program, which has 
operated for more than 20 years, receives do-
nations from customers and GRU employees year round but boosts its campaign in Febru-ary.
Donated money is sent to the Salvation 
Army, Catholic Charities and Gainesville Community Ministry, which then distribute 
the funds to those in need, primarily focusing 
on the elderly, handicapped and those who are ill.
“There are other extenuating circum-
stances for people, but those are primar-ily what we try to help out with,” said John Barli, the Catholic Charities regional director. “Obviously, we only have certain amount of funds per month,” — about $1800 to $2500.
Barli said that’s enough to help about 15 to 20 residents each month.
“There’s a lot more need than what we 
can handle,” he said.
In order to help as many community 
members as possible, Catholic Charities helps each person only once.
GRU hopes to raise more than $76,000 
this year, spokeswoman Kendall Litton Jen-sen said.
Last year, more than $73,000 helped 458 
customers keep their lights and water run-ning, according to a press release.
The three charities work together to 
spread the wealth — when one runs out, the other chips in if able, Barli said.
Utility rates went up slightly in October, 
Jensen said, citing the biomass plant and a decrease in sales as potential factors. There 
was a $1.35 increase per 1,000-kilowatt hours 
for electric, $2.36 increase for gas, a 50-cent increase for water and a $1.95 increase for wastewater, according to GRU’s website.
Customers can donate online at gru.com/
projectshare, call GRU Customer Service at 352-334-3434 or 1-800-818-3436 or complete the pledge card sent with their February util-ity bill. Those who need help paying should 
call the United Way of North Central Flori-
da’s 2-1-1 helpline.GRU helps some pay bills
NICOLE GOMEZ
Alligator Staff Writer ngomez@alligator.org
Experts, musicians and survivors 
joined to discuss experiences with suicide and ways to prevent it Wednesday night.
Keep Hope Alive, a suicide awareness 
vigil, was held in Pugh Hall and featured 
a panel that addressed coping with sui-
cide and helping others who struggle with mental health issues to about 40 people.
The panel featured Terrie Mullin, presi-
dent of National Alliance on Mental Illness Gainesville; Mercedes Machado, a Coun-seling and Wellness Center intern; and psychologists Marshall Knudson and Jim Probert.
Knudson said there is no formula for 
talking to someone who is struggling, but it’s important to focus on helping people live rather than keeping them from dying.
Mullin said letting people know you 
care can make a big difference.
“Just being willing to say, ‘I will listen,’ is not a small thing,” she said.
Musicians Katie Hargrove and Zo Ber-
nardeau both performed original songs.
Bernardeau, who identiﬁ  es as neither 
male nor female, wrote their songs after their best friend, Traver Hecht-Fellella, committed suicide in 2013 at age 19. Ber-nardeau performed two songs they wrote in Hecht-Fellella’s room after his death.
Bernardeau told Hecht-Fellella’s story 
and said the LGBT community is not given enough support in today’s society.
“This was my way of holding space 
for these people,” Bernardeau said. “It’s intense for me to openly speak about this. It also feels healing, like it needed to hap-pen.”
The event ended with a moment of si-
lence. The crowd held 40 battery-powered tea lights, which Collin Vernay, AWARE coordinator and host of the event, said 
each represented the more than 1,000 an-
nual victims of suicide.Suicide awareness vigil 
focuses on how to helpthem that we are a part of it,” she 
said.
Continental Capers Travel Cen-
ter agent John May said that on av-erage, a summer flight to Ireland 
could cost $1,400 to $1,600 round-
trip. The average cost per person per day is about $150.
“It’s a great country, and stu-
dents would love it I think,” May said. “Dublin itself draws a lot of students and young professionals because it’s very hip.”He said the country is famous 
for bed-and-breakfasts and the beautiful scenery. The program is a great deal because it would pro-vide students with a comprehen-
sive tour of the country, he added.
Birkholz shared a link to an ar-
ticle about the proposal as soon 
as she saw it. She said 15 people commented, asking how to get in-volved.
“The interest is there,” she said. 
“It’s a tragedy to say that you’re Irish but not know anything about 
it.”4, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Tying the knot
Lucy Berman, a 20-year-old UF animal sciences sophomore, practices tying a trucker’s hitch, a type of knot 
that is used to set up tarps for shelter when camping, on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. afternoon. 
CAMPUS
ARIELLA PHILLIPS 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local group is helping to bring 
a centuries-old art movement to the 
younger generation.
Tonight the Alliance Française 
de Gainesville will host a museum 
night at the Samuel P. Harn Mu-
seum of Art with tours, a musical performance and Monet-related ac-tivities. The alliance’s goal for the eve-
ning is to inspire children, students and families through the art of the impressionist movement, said Am-andine Hom, interim president of the alliance.
“We wanted to make the event 
family-friendly,” she said.
Hom, a native of Burgundy, 
France, will be giving tours of the exhibit in both French and English. Kids will have the opportunity to recreate Monet’s works with cray-ons and watercolors.
The Harn’s “Monet and Ameri-
can Impressionism” exhibit features 25 artists and four Monet paintings, including a renowned piece from his bridge series, Hom said. She will discuss how Monet influenced other impressionist artists. In addition to the tours, the alliance will provide an art history lesson on various im-
pressionism techniques for children, 
said Debbie Parrales, executive di-rector of operations for the alliance.
“We really wanted to offer activi-ties for the kids to get something out of it,” Parrales said. 
She wanted to be a part of the 
local French community after she graduated from UF and said she was happy to see the alliance and UF French Club put on the event. Parrales hopes to inspire a curiosity in French culture in Gainesville.
“We’re just doing this for the 
community,” she said.
Gainesville French alliance to host Monet museum night
“We wanted to make the 
event family-friendly.”
Amandine Horn
interim president, Alliance Français 
de Gainesville
DANA HATCHETT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Maya Beiser has played the 
cello with the world’s top sym-phonies. She’s performed in Carnegie Hall and a sold-out show in Brooklyn Academy of 
Music Next Wave Festival.
Her next stop: Gainesville.
Beiser, a world-renowned 
cellist, will perform at 7:30 p.m. Friday in the University Auditorium, performing from her critically acclaimed album “Uncovered.”
Tickets are $10 for UF stu-
dents and $20 to $35 for the public.
Classically trained, Beiser 
said her musical taste expand-ed when she first heard Janis Joplin as a teenager.
“Somehow Janis’ unique, raw expression snuck its way into the inner shrine where, until then, only the likes of Bach and Schubert were al-lowed to enter,” Beiser wrote in an email.
Influenced by Joplin, Pink 
Floyd and classical musi-cians Johannes Brahms and Franz Schubert, Beiser said she works to influence and reinvent the way people think about the cello.
Karisa McKinney, a 
20-year-old UF music perfor-mance sophomore, said she 
purchased a ticket because she 
enjoys hearing string instru-ments. She said comments on YouTube describe Beiser’s mu-sic as mesmerizing.
“That’s exactly what her 
music is,” McKinney said. “Mesmerizing and beautiful.”Famous cellist to 
perform at UF Friday
 HE WAS A LINEBACKER 
FROM 2001 TO 2005.
SAMANTHA POLLACK 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can now work out like 
a Gator. 
Todd McCullough, a former UF 
linebacker, has created an online ex-
ercise program called TMAC Fitness that allows anyone to fit in a daily heart-pumping workout. 
After playing football for the 
Gators from 2001 to 2005, Mc-Cullough spent years studying yoga.
“I have been able to blend the 
two worlds of athletic training and yoga together,” he wrote in an email.
He said the TMAC Fitness work-
outs are designed for people who lead hectic lives and want to see real results. All you need is 20 minutes, and there is no equipment necessary. All of the workouts are available for 
free at tmacfitness.com.
McCullough said his time on 
the football team played a signifi-
cant role in the development of his TMAC Fitness programs.
“As an athlete, you train to be 
explosive,” he said. “I use explosive athletic movements throughout my 20-minute workout videos.” Carrie Mayes, a 21-year-old yoga 
instructor at the Southwest Recre-ation Center, said she agrees with 
McCullough’s methods. 
“Athletic training and yoga mix 
well,” the UF environmental engi-
neering junior said, “because the intensity of training combined with stretching and strengthening of muscle tissue allows for the muscles to become healthier, leaner and stronger while lessening the chance of injury.”
McCullough said the most valu-
able skill he learned at UF was time management.
“When you are studying for a fi-
nance test and you have to prepare to beat FSU, there is no time to mess around,” he said. “My workout 
program is derived from this phi-
losophy. Every move, every rep is designed to get results in the most efficient way possible.”
Train like a Gator: Former football player offers online fitness
IRELAND , from page 1One day there costs $150They will learn how to pass a bill
The students will learn how a bill is advocat-
ed, lobbied and passed. Chapman said confer-ence organizers chose to focus on online voter registration because of its bipartisan support.
“We decided that we wanted to come up 
with something very specific, and something that we felt could actually make some sort of  impact here in Florida,” Chapman said.
Michael McDonald, a UF associate professor 
of political science and a scheduled conference speaker, said 20 states have adopted online vot-er registration.
Although the Florida bill would not take ef-
fect until after the 2016 election, “any progress 
would be good,” McDonald said.
McDonald wrote in an email that Florida may lack online voter registration because of 
former Sen. John Thrasher’s opposition and pre-vention of consideration of the bill in the Senate.
“Politically, legislators often have beliefs 
about who may benefit from an election re-form,” McDonald wrote. “While I do not know what Sen. Thrasher’s thinking, one might pre-sume that he thought Democrats would be ad-
vantaged by online registration.”
Katy Burnett, a 32-year-old UF political sci-
ence and history senior, attended the confer-
ence last year and said she looks forward to the changes made in the conference this year.
“The process to implement a new idea is 
something students don’t know about and the general public doesn’t know about,” Burnett said. “This year is an entirely different ball 
game.”SUMMIT , from page 1THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. — Police are trying 
to determine whether hate played any role in 
the killing of three Muslims, a crime they said was sparked by a neighbor’s long-simmering 
anger over parking and noise inside their con-
dominium complex.
Craig Stephen Hicks, 46, describes himself 
as a “gun toting” atheist. Hicks appeared in court Wednesday on charges of first-degree murder in the deaths Tuesday of Deah Shad-dy Barakat, 23, his wife Yusor Mohammad, 21, and her sister Razan Mohammad Abu-Sal-
ha, 19. He was appointed a public defender.
Imad Ahmad, who lived in the condo 
where his friends were killed until Barakat 
and Mohammad were married in December, said Hicks complained about once a month that the two men were parking in a visitor’s space in addition to their assigned spot.
Officers were summoned by a neighbor 
who called 911, reporting five to 10 shots and 
the sound of people screaming.
The women’s father, Mohammad Abu-
Salha, said police told him each was shot in 
the head inside the couple’s apartment, and that he, for one, is convinced it was a hate crime.The killings are fueling outrage among 
people who blame anti-Muslim rhetoric for hate crimes. A Muslim advocacy organization pressed authorities to investigate possible 
religious bias. Many posted social media up-
dates with the hashtags #MuslimLivesMatter. 
“We understand the concerns about the 
possibility that this was hate-motivated, and we will exhaust every lead to determine if that is the case,” Chapel Hill Police Chief Chris Blue said in an email.
Barakat and Mohammad were newlyweds 
who helped the homeless and raised funds to help Syrian refugees in Turkey this summer. They met while running the Muslim Student Association at North Carolina State Univer-sity before he began pursuing an advanced degree in dentistry at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Mohammad planned to join her husband in dentistry school in the 
fall.
Abu-Salha was visiting them Tuesday 
from Raleigh, where she was majoring in de-
sign at North Carolina State.
“This was like the power couple of our 
community,” said Ali Sajjad, 21, the associa-tion’s current president.
A probable cause hearing is scheduled for 
March 4. Police said Hicks was cooperating.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Namee Barakat, right, embraces his wife Layla Barakat during a news conference Wednes-
day in Raleigh, North Carolina. They are the parents of Deah Shaddy Barakat, a doctoral student at University of North Carolina who was one of three killed Tuesday in Chapel Hill.
CRIMEPolice investigate motive of triple homocide in Chapel HillHUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student 
Senate struggled to reach and 
keep enough senators present to conduct business during Wednesday’s meeting.
Once enough senators were 
present, they finalized funding approved last week, and Sen. Lucas Jewell apologized for abruptly leaving last week’s meeting.
Jewell apologized in order 
to move his club, Young Amer-icans for Liberty, out of bad 
standing.
Senators also confirmed a 
$3,980.56 request by Health 
Services Administration Stu-dent Association to attend the 2015 Congress on Healthcare Leadership in Chicago.
Senators were unable to ap-
prove a $705 request by the Re-spiratory Care Club to attend a conference because the number of senators fell below quorum.
Wednesday’s meeting was 
one of many this semester when senators did not meet 
quorum. Some senators argue 
that too much drama and agen-da-pushing is causing senators to not want to attend Senate.
“The funny thing is, people 
don’t want to come anymore,” said Benjamin Myers, Internal Affairs director. “We’ve been rife with conflict for a while, 
but that’s normal in politics.”
Joel Cray, an 18-year-old 
Santa Fe English and educa-
tion freshman, said he thinks senators should focus on their work.
“It’s interesting to go to if 
you like a daytime drama,” he said. “It kind of reminds me of 
an interesting season of ‘Bad 
Girls Club.’”Santa Fe Student 
Senate struggles to meet quorum again ABOUT 15 PARTICIPANTS 
ARE IN THE PROGRAM.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Despite facing a slew of legal 
trouble in recent years, Groove-
shark is still kicking from its down-
town Gainesville location.
On Wednesday evening, partici-pants of all skill levels had their first 
classes at Grooveshark University, 
a free semester-long programming 
workshop in its fourth year. Web app development will be taught at the company’s headquarters, locat-
ed at 201 SE Second Ave.
About 15 participants will learn 
the ins and outs of programming, 
said co-founder and chief technol-ogy officer Josh Greenberg.“We target people that know 
how to code a little bit and try to get 
them a lot better,” Greenberg said. 
He said Grooveshark sessions 
are molded by startup culture.
“We try to teach programming 
the way that you would need to do 
it at a startup,” he said.
Greenberg would not comment 
on a copyright infringement law-suit filed against the company by major record labels in 2011. A fed-eral judge ruled against Groove-
shark in September.
The legal issues didn’t stop 
Preston Morgan, a UF digital arts 
and sciences alumnus, from joining 
Grooveshark University in spring 
2013.
“They were offering to teach me 
something for free,” Morgan said, adding that he wouldn’t let any-thing keep him from participating.
After participating in the classes, 
Morgan became an intern and is now Grooveshark’s quality assur-ance developer.
“I would say definitely give it a 
shot,” Morgan said. “Even if you don’t make it in — if we run out of room — keep learning, keep prac-ticing and refining, and keep apply -
ing.” Grooveshark University holds web app development classes
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Holding Space
Zo Bernardeau performs “Gravity,” a song Bernardeau wrote after their best friend’s suicide in 2013, dur-
ing the Keep Hope Alive suicide awareness vigil at Pugh Hall on Wednesday. Read the story on page 3.Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Senate meeting’s 
dramatic end sign 
of stiff competition
Student Government seems more prone to crises and 
spectacles than it’s ever been in recent memory. Goings-on in SG have always had a ﬂ  air for the dramatic, but 
previous incidents have been the doing of apparently indi-vidual actors or have stemmed from power plays conceived 
out of sight. 
Rarely has the drama taken the form of a coup. 
Well, “coup” may be a bit of a strong word to describe 
what happened during Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting — more like one of the major SG events in the past ﬁ  ve years. 
During the meeting, a new independent Senate coalition 
announced its formation to the rest of the senators, many of whom were totally blindsided by the event. It wasn’t quite as dramatic as dragging handcuffed representatives into cham-
bers to make quorum, but it’s about as close as we’re ever 
going to get. 
The coalition is lead by Sen. Michael Christ, who held fast 
through the waning days of the Students Party’s opposition. Christ, an independent Senator who is also the campaign manager for Access Party, is joined by 20 other senators. 
What’s exciting and signiﬁ  cant about this is that 18 of 
Christ’s followers are former Swamp Party senators, and that’s a “former” as of Tuesday. These senators cited multi-
ple grievances and ills when they revoked their membership 
from the majority party, from general dissatisfaction with 
the way Swamp is running things to the selection of a former 
Swamp Majority Leader Austin Sherman as this semester’s 
election commissioner. 
Call it a protest, a coup or a betrayal — Tuesday’s an-
nouncement is symbolic in a vital way. That so many par-ty members have jumped ship should send a message to Swamp: The days when it could do whatever it felt like doing are ﬁ  nished. 
Access’ creation was much less of a threat; Swamp has 
weathered opposition parties before. Its previous incarna-
tions did, too — the same way they were able to survive ma-
jor scandals. All they needed then was a name change and a fresh coat of paint. What Access has done is reveal cracks in the party’s facade. Now that a chasm has been forced open, there’s enough room for opposition to move around comfort-ably. 
Swamp messed up in a big way when it selected Sherman 
as election commissioner. Granted, anybody who’s eligible for the post would likely have been involved with Swamp 
at some level. The odds are overwhelmingly in favor of that, 
but to select somebody as clearly a part of Swamp as Sherman was is careless. Otherwise, it smacks of giving an SG post to a friend in anticipation of a tough election. Because of that de-cision, Swamp has lost 18 seats before elections even began. 
We applaud the end of an effective single-party system, 
and we look forward to some stiff competition this election season.
40 TOTAL VOTES32% YES
68% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Do you listen to 
EDM? Today’s question: Are you in the College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences?Obama’s ‘strategic patience’ ineffective
The world is coming undone. Chaos, violence and disor-
der are spreading quickly.
The depreciating ruble and declining oil prices have 
made Russia more desperate than ever. Ukrainian violence is on the rise. The Islamic State group barbarically set a cap-
tured Jordanian pilot on ﬁ  re. And an American girl has been 
killed in a retaliation-Jordanian airstrike.
With all of this unrest in the world, all eyes and ears are 
on President Barack Obama. The world wants an end to the senseless violence. The world wants to know what the presi-dent plans to do.  
What is the president’s new plan? National Security Ad-
viser Susan Rice highlighted the administration’s bold and action-packed foreign plan of action. It’s called “strategic pa-
tience.”
The title is a bit vague, but in all fairness it seems like a 
good idea at ﬁ  rst blush.
For me, the title conveys contemplative deliberateness. It 
describes a president who wants to take his time making a 
decision. He weighs all opinions. He acts in a careful manner. He waits to engage with his enemies. He thinks before speak-ing. He defers action. He wants to stop America from being the world police. He doesn’t want America to be aggressive 
on the world stage.
Now going back to reality, strategic patience does none of 
this. The title is just a ruse. Under this plan, America will con-
tinue to be front and center on international developments.
The plan is neither passive, strategic nor patient.    The plan is not passive: National Security Adviser Susan 
Rice commented that under the new plan, the U.S. “will ex-act an appropriate cost on transgressors.” In addition to this, Rice pointed out that the country must prevent the spread 
of radicalism in the Middle East and stop nuclear-arms pro-
liferation “even as we rally the world to meet the threats of tomorrow.” This hardly sounds like we’re stepping out of world affairs.
The plan is not strategic: If the title of the plan is vague, 
how can you expect the plan itself to be any better? If we take a look at the foreign policy of the past six years, it’s hard to say that anything truly strategic has come from the White House. I’ll give you the assassina-tion of bin Laden. But after that, can you think of another strategic foreign policy victory?
A drone strike to a Middle East-
ern village is not my deﬁ  nition of strategic policy. Nor is drawing a “red line” and promising to act in the Syrian Civil War but never fol-lowing through.
But consider the plan itself. 
USA Today outlines the key features of strategic patience: regarding Russia, “The strategy calls for continued diplo-matic and economic pressure on Russia for its incursion into 
Ukraine, working ‘in lockstep with our European allies.’” 
With the Islamic State, “The United States will ‘prioritize col-lective action’ to address the threat from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and from related groups.” And pertaining to North Korea, just because we like mentioning it every now and again, “The United States is ‘modernizing our alliances’ with Japan, South Korea, Australia and the Philippines to counter North Korean provocation.”
These are just sweet nothings whispered in the country’s 
ear. Unless your deﬁ  nition of strategic planning is putting out a list of no-duhs and overused talking points, this is hardly tactical.
The plan is not patient: With little time remaining in of-
ﬁ  ce, the president wants a few more foreign-policy wins before taking off on Marine One. And staying true to the past, we can expect that our affairs on the world stage will be hasty and bumbling. For the next two years, our foreign policy will be even more ad hoc.
America’s new strategic plan is doomed from the start. 
It does nothing the country wants or the world needs. The world will not be a better place because the U.S. commits it-self to another haphazard foreign plan of action.   
This policy and the administration are hopelessly con-
fused, completely misleading and sadly mistaken.
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    Online exclusive: 
A review of Will Butler’s debut solo album is on 
alligator.org/the_avenue. Single for Valentine’s Day? Be in a relationship with wine: 
Check out the Avenue’s latest binge-drinking game, pg. 8-9. What are you doing for Valentine’s Day? Tweet us @TheAlligator.  
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
Legend Bob Marley would have turned 
70 on Feb. 6, and although money couldn’t 
buy him life, something else has.
“His music keeps him alive. His mes-
sages keep him alive,” said the Wailers lead singer, Dwayne “Danglin” Anglin, in a phone call from a tour stop in Tucson, 
Arizona.
The next stop on their tour is tonight at 
High Dive, located 210 SW Second Ave., 
to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the re-lease of “Legend,” the best-selling reggae 
album of all time.
Doors open at 7 p.m., and the show be-
gins at 8:30 p.m. Tickets can be purchased 
at the door for $22 or can be purchased in 
advance for $18 at High Tides Tobacco and 
Gifts, the High Dive box office or on tick-etweb.com.
The band will play the album in its en-
tirety, along with various other fan favor-
ites not featured on the album.
“The Wailers are a fantastic, legendary 
band that backed Bob Marley for his entire 
career,” said Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, Gainesville’s longest run-
ning event promotion company. “Crowds always treasure their performances.”
The Wailers current lineup includes the 
band’s long-time bass player Aston “Fam-
ily Man” Barrett, who was recruited by Bob Marley himself.
Today, Barrett leads the band as it con-
tinues its movement to promote peace, love and equality throughout the world.
“We have to cross seas and mountains 
and all these things to get to the people,” Anglin said. ”But people need the message 
so we have to transfer the message.”
Anglin, who has been the lead singer of 
the band for five years, first moved to the 
U.S. from Jamaica when he was 15.
His musical talent was brought forth by 
the years he spent overseas while serving 
in the U.S. Navy.
“I needed to find something; I needed 
some time away when there was really limited space, limited time, and I found music,” Anglin said. “I always listened to music, but I never really explored any 
writing or performing until then.”
In February 2010, Anglin received the 
phone call that would alter his career. He 
had just released his single “Excuse Me Miss” when the Wailers got in contact 
with him and asked him to join the band.
“I started singing a few songs and from 
there it just brought something special and 
here I am as an artist,” Anglin said. “It’s 
just one of those things that just happens, 
and you have no control over it because it wasn’t planned.”
From that moment, Anglin inherited 
some big shoes as the front man for the 
world’s most influential reggae band, 
the band that played the largest role in spreading reggae music from Jamaica to every corner of the world.
“If I could say anything to (Bob Marley) 
now, I would say thank you. Thank you for this legacy.”‘Get up, stand up’ for The Wailers concert at High Dive tonightmusic
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Wailers will be performing at the High Dive tonight at 8:30 p.m. to 
celebrate the 30-year anniversary of the release of “Legend.”
PAISLEY PAPINEAU
Avenue Writer
“The Vagina Monologues” is 
back at the Hippodrome State 
Theatre for its third year, just in 
time for Valentine’s Day.
This episodic play, written by 
Eve Ensler, features a number 
of different monologues based 
on interviews with 200 diverse 
women. The play debuts Satur-day at 6:30 p.m. at the Hippo-drome.
Co-directors Keri Wilson, Em-
ily Snider and Dean Carvalho met while working at a local restau-rant and all worked together to bring “The Vagina Monologues” 
to Gainesville in 2013.
“It’s a resounding, humbling, 
heart-opening experience of hav-ing the community come togeth-
er and support the cause,” Wil-son said. “And now that we have been doing it for three years, we 
have created a following and 
people asking how they can be involved.”
Snider said the production 
raised $10,000 last year, and the directors are hoping to surpass that. 
Two of the three performances 
will even be shown on the main stage in the Hippodrome to ac-commodate for a higher expected turnout.
“I love how this play highly 
encourages the vulnerability and 
courage that comes when a wom-
an owns her story and the em-powerment that rises when she declares it her own,” said Alea Wise, a 27-year-old UF second-
year graduate student and third-
year actress in the show.
Peaceful Paths, an organiza-
tion that benefits survivors of do-
mestic abuse in Alachua County, 
will receive 90 percent of the proceeds. The other 10 percent benefits V-Day, a nonprofit orga-
nization founded by Ensler that 
is partnered with One Billion Ris-ing, another nonprofit organiza-tion. 
Each year, the organization picks a new theme, and this year, the theme is One Billion Rising for a Fair Wage.
“Women make up a good por-
tion of the workforce,” Snider said. “One Billion rising strives for equality represented in their wage.”
This year, the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition is one of the sponsors of the production. The co-alition recently launched 
its campaign for a Living 
Wage Ordinance that will set the starting wage at a livable amount.
New features this year in-
clude spotlights on the stage and a transgender monologue, said Lynne Loewenthal, the coordina-tor of the labor coalition and an actress in the play for the third year.
To kick off the movement this 
year, the Hippodrome opened its gallery to an array of art contrib-uted by 15 local female artists. 
The exhibit, entitled “Labor of 
Love: Valuing Women’s Work,” features paintings, pottery and photography.
The exhibit will remain open 
to the public until Sun-day, and a portion of the art sales will go to Peace-ful Paths.
The other two show-
ings of the monologues are Feb. 21 and 23. Tickets are on sale now at event-
brite.com. 
The cost, which also includes 
the show, live music, one drink and hors d’oeuvres, is $30 for Sat-urday’s showing and $25 for the 
later dates.
‘The Vagina Monologues’ back for Valentine’s Day at the Hipp
Proceeds will go toward nonprofit organizations  
“It’s a resounding, hum-
bling, heart-opening expe-
rience of having the com-
munity come together and 
support the cause.”
Keri Wilson
Co-director THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
KATHRYN VARN
Avenue Writer
The last time I was single for Valentine’s Day was my 
freshman year of high school. Since then, I’ve been a serial 
girlfriend, jumping from relationship to relationship in a desperate attempt to turn my love life into a Meg Cabot novel.
But one broken heart and what’s felt like 10 years of 
maturation later, I’m facing the big Day of Love without a boy on my arm.
Before, no boy equated to being sad and alone. But I 
now know that’s not true. I have my awesome friends, my nurturing family and wine. Lots of wine.
Yeah, screw it, Valentine’s Day blows. So grab your fa-
vorite single pal, a bottle — no, case — of Trader Joe’s Two 
Buck Chuck, and let’s get sloshy.1. Take a swig every time you see someone receiving a Valentineʼs gram of any kind.
2. Offer a swig every time you see someone receiving a break-up gram (pioneered by a campus 
entrepreneur).
3. Take a swig every time a Facebook friend gets engaged. Then take another swig if their engage-
ment was on a prairie during sunset with a professional photographer. Then take another three 
swigs to make up for the free wedding drinks youʼll be missing out on because you and said 
friend “grew apart” after high school.
4. Take a swig every time you want to leave the house but canʼt out of fear of seeing more couples.
5. Take a swig every time that decision not to leave the house lands you back on a Facebook feed 
full of couplesʼ photos and candelit dinners and... jeeeeeez is that another engagement?!
At this point, you’re drunk. You’re ﬁ  ghting a losing battle. All you want is pizza, but the words 
on the Domino’s menu are blurring together, and so are the words of this column. But before you 
give up and turn to Netﬂ  ix, remember you’re a strong independent (insert gender identity here) and you don’t need no (preferred partner’s gender identity here). And remember: I’ll be there with you in spirit, sleeping face-down in a box of pizza.In a relationship with Wine
 Wine
KELSI AND KERI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
Just when we thought we were past the 
holidays and gift-giving, Valentine’s Day comes 
around and presents itself as another gift-giving occasion. 
Etiquette from the holidays remains relevant 
for Valentine’s Day. Top gifts are wine, choco-late and ﬂ  owers, often in that order. Food and entertainment magazine “Bon Appetit” advises otherwise in its holiday 2014 issue: “Resist the tempta-tion to bring wine (unless asked). Many hosts will have a plan for the wine they wish to serve.” Instead, the magazine suggests buying high-quality bottles of olive oil, vinegar or liquor. 
Gift-giving gets more complicated as Valentine’s 
Day approaches. Gifts take on another level of meaning as they signify the status of a relationship between two people interested in one another. The more serious the relationship, the more expensive, elaborate or personal the gift. An important part of enjoying Valentine’s Day is being prepared and thinking ahead for your loved ones.
Writing a Valentine’s card is a thoughtful — and in-
expensive — way to show your love and care for someone. It can be challenging, whether you have been married for years or if it is your ﬁ  rst Valentine’s Day with your special someone. 
Hallmark writers offered up sample messages 
on what to write and how to make it personal on the company’s website.
Whether for signiﬁ  cant others, family or 
friends, you can emphasize certain words by underlin-ing, using all-caps or italics. No matter what you say, use words that sound like you. Try drafting your mes-sage ﬁ  rst on scratch paper before taking pen to card to avoid scratching out words or conveying unintended 
messages.
Hallmark writers describe signing off on your card 
as “the bow on top of your message.” For friends and 
family, closings include: “With love. Love always.” For romantic love: “All my love. XOXO. Kisses.”Your guide to Valentine’s Day giftsv-day
NICOLETTE HOFFMAN
Avenue Writer
Claudia Kanne spoke with eloquence as 
she discussed the life-and-death experience she had more than 12 years ago when she ingested a toxic dry-cleaning solvent. Kanne survived and was able to tell her story 
through a diary-turned-documentary called “Dry-
Clean Only.”
Kanne’s ﬁ  lm, along with more than 40 other 
submissions, will be presented at the sixth annual Cinema Verde International Environmental Film and Arts Festival today through Sunday at the Para-mount Plaza Hotel. 
“Cinema Verde provides environmental educa-
tion to the public to foster sustainable solutions and 
help forge a healthier future for all,” said Trish Riley, 
festival director.
Cinema Verde was one of the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm festivals 
Kanne sent her documentary to.
“The Q&A is the thing I am looking forward 
to most, and I am so thrilled to be in this festival,” Kanne said.
Seven of the directors chosen in the fes-
tival will attend via Skype for people in the audience to walk up to the computer and ask questions, Riley said.
Cinema Verde presented one of its ﬁ  lms 
at the Key West Film Festival in November 
and is set to take ﬁ  lms to the International 
School of Sustainable Business in the Philippines at 
the end of February.
“This is the year we need to move from a volun-
teer effort to a fully professional operation, so we are seeking a strong corporate sponsor to partner with us and help Cinema Verde achieve its personal goal,” Riley said.
Tickets are $10 for about a two-hour entry, and a 
ﬁ  lm-only day pass is $25.
Emily Schmidt, a 19-year-old UF environmental 
science sophomore, said she’s attending because of her strong concern for the environment.
”I am looking forward to the live music and 
watching environmentally driven ﬁ  lms with other people that share the same care and passions I do.”Cinema Verde festival starts todayCinema Verde to host sixth annual ﬁ  lm and arts festival10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jeni & Billy,  a folk duo from Nashville, stopped by Gainesville to perform at 
a Chuck Levy house concert Saturday night.  The duo performs folk songs based on places Jeni has been and the places she has visited.
ASHLEY SCHIFFMAN
Avenue Writer
Twinkling lights lined the inside of the 
house of local performer Chuck Levy as 
Autumn, his calm and fluffy dog, greeted audience members at the door before they sat down, ready to take in the quaint, eclec-
tic and romantic country ambiance of Jeni 
& Billy during a concert Saturday night.
Jeni Hankins, 40, is the singer and song-
writer for the folk duo, while Billy Kemp, 60, focuses on the musical art of the per-formances. 
Hankins and Kemp have been on the 
road almost 10 months out of the year in their little red car they call Mr. Tomato.
Hankins bases her songs on characters 
she knows and places she has been. She said her music concentrates on telling sto-ries and painting a picture. 
Mountain music is focused on ballads 
brought over from Britain and Ireland to settlers of the Appalachian Mountains, making it rich with history.
“Sometimes people will come up to me 
and say, ‘You are an ambassador for your culture and the Appalachian Mountains and represent where I come from, and at the same time tell a universal story,’” Han-kins said.
Kemp said he thinks Hankins is ex-
tremely talented.
“I feel really privileged to tour and 
work and play with someone like Jeni,” he 
said.
Hankins and Kemp said their music is 
heartwarming with comedic stories and 
are meant to separate the songs, in hopes of  touching the audience’s soul with beau-tiful harmonies to bring listeners to the mountainside.
“One of the most important things to us 
is to tell a really good story, to make peo-
ple feel glad they came and that something 
stayed with them,” Hankins said.
Haley Simmons, an 18-year-old UF 
dance freshman, said she enjoyed the inti-macy of the show.
“I think it was more intimate because 
of the story-telling aspect and the proxim-ity, being that close to the artist,” she said. “Usually at a pop concert, it’s more of a 
show business than bonding with the art-
ist.”Folk duo stops in GNV to 
perform at house concertmusic
ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
In one of the most diverse (and longest) 
Grammy ceremonies in years, the mesh of 
performers old and new was the perfect recipe for a star-studded show — so much so, the numbers seemed to overshadow 
many of the awards themselves. There 
were so many memorable moments during the three-and-a-half-hour show, but here are some of the highlights from one of mu-sic’s biggest nights.
The performances were top notch this 
year, including back-to-back sets from Kanye West and The Matador (er, Ma-donna). AC/DC kicked off the show with 
a set, including a slower-paced “Highway 
to Hell” that got the entire crowd on its feet and adorned in red devil horns.
Lady Gaga and Tony Bennett brought 
a bit of glamour to the ceremony with a performance of their jazz album title track “Cheek to Cheek.” Ed Sheeran took the stage with a band including John Mayer, Herbie Hancock and Questlove (of The 
Roots) for “Thinking Out Loud” and later 
Jeff Lynne’s ELO for “Evil Woman” and “Mr. Blue Sky.”
Hozier and Annie Lennox brought the 
house down with a medley of “Take Me To Church” and “I Put A Spell On You,” creat-ing a powerful vocal vortex that absolutely stole the show.
Other notable collaborations of the night 
included Rihanna, West and Paul McCart-
ney, who premiered “FourFiveSeconds” 
to a standing ovation, and Adam Levine 
and Gwen Stefani, who sang “My Heart Is 
Open” from Maroon 5’s latest record.
In terms of trophies, it was clearly the 
year of Sam Smith. The soulful singer racked up four Grammys, including Best New Artist, Best Pop Vocal Album, Song of 
the Year and Record of the Year. He later 
shared his standout single “Stay With Me” with Mary J. Blige, marking another one of the night’s top performances.
Pharrell Williams bested the likes of 
Taylor Swift and Sia for Best Pop Solo Performance before channeling his inner “Grand Budapest Hotel” bellhop for the most minor-keyed version of “Happy” 
ever heard, thanks to the inclusion of “In-
terstellar” composer Hans Zimmer.
The biggest surprise of the night came 
when Beck won Album of the Year, beating Smith, Williams and Beyoncé. The biggest laugh of the night (arguably) came when West started to take the stage during Beck’s speech but returned to his seat shortly after. A play on his infamous mic-grabbing stunt during Taylor Swift’s speech at the 2009 Video Music Awards? Oh, Kanye, you’re so clever.
Another surprise was Kristen Wiig don-
ning a platinum wig and nude leotard to dance during Sia’s “Chandelier” along-
side the video’s star, Maddie Ziegler. All 
of these moments made the awards show seem like more of a performance-based cer-emony, with fewer breaks, shorter accep-tance speeches and more dynamic musical exhibitions.
Closing out the show was Queen Bey 
herself with a spiritual song that led into Common and John Legend’s Oscar-nom-
inated “Glory.” The emotional finale was 
a strong ending to a show that very rarely 
lost this writer’s attention. The diversity of 
nominees and performers alike made the 
ceremony interesting, intriguing, and most importantly, entertaining.
Who were your favorite winners and 
performers? Tweet your thoughts @Alys-saVHolcomb.Trophy hunting:  Top-notch 
performances at Grammys
STELLA HEEKIN
Avenue Writer
When entrepreneur Michael Presley 
Bobbitt couldn’t find a home for his 
southern gothic play, he did what he’s used to doing as a poet, playwright and novelist: He created one.
Bobbitt, 38, is one of three founding partners 
of the Nitty Gritty Theater Company at The Salt on 2222 NW Sixth St. The company will exclu-sively produce four original Gainesville shows a year with the first one, “Across the River,” written by Bobbitt, previewing today before its opening night Friday.
The attempt to get the play, centered on a fa-
ther-and-son relationship, to the stage through several venues, including the Acrosstown Rep-ertory Theatre, came to no avail.
“We immediately ran into some backlash 
about how controversial they thought it was and how some of the scenes were too difficult or too challenging for a Gainesville audience,” Bobbitt said.
Instead of letting the script sit on the shelf, 
he said he decided to produce it himself and 
bring Gainesville a theater for playwrights to 
showcase their work.
“Suddenly, we had a whole group of tal-
ented people in for that mission,” Bobbitt said.Partnering with the owners of The 
Salt, a venue that caters to punk-rock shows, the company has struck a deal with a rate upfront for each night, and if projections of the turnout are close, the company could make a profit.                     
Bobbitt has invested $5,000 of his 
own money into building the company 
and producing the show.
Bobbitt said he hopes the company will 
lead a renaissance of creation for local artists. After the first production of “Across the River” finishes at the end of the month, the company will hold open-call auditions for playwrights to submit their work. A review board will then select one show for each season backed by a budget and a producer, Bobbitt said.
“We’re going to create a real model for how 
to put on art in town work. People get paid for their time and something of, you know, profes-sional quality gets made,” Bobbitt said. “We’re about trying to make Gainesville a real cultural center of the state, of the Southeast.”
The culture and identity of a theater com-
munity is something Kelsey Côté, a UF the-atre sophomore,  said she’s noticed among her peers.
“We all want to be in a theater or be in-
volved in the aspect of storytelling,” Côté, 19, said. “There’s a common goal there.”Local entrepreneur to open 
‘Nitty Gritty’ theater Friday BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Volunteers of America is offering free, all-
inclusive housing for homeless veterans in a friendly, supportive atmosphere. Please call Woody at 352.642.8313 for immediate move-in!    2-16-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 12, 2015
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOEStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Best Programming Job in Gainesville
Help build WWW 3.0 - the Semantic Web. 
Must be experienced ASP.NET MVCprogrammer. Change the scientific world. Apply to info@chemicalsemantics.com    2-13-15-7-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
 THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 12, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Investor Seeks Web Designer
to partner to build start-up with unlimited po-
tential. jholifield1@gmail.com    2-12-15-3-14
Blueprint LSAT is hiring! $15/hour
Blueprint LSAT is hiring students to flyer
on and around the UFL campus for 2-5 
hours a week (make your own schedule). 
Flyers will be provided. Very flexible!
2-18-15-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who 
cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line 
for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-
1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/16-2/19 
from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; 
Math sessions are T & R.  Go to teaching -
center.ufl.edu and “Study Skills” to register.     2-16-5-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Bryan Shelton is using 
brooms to help the UF men’s tennis team improve its serving. Read the story on page 16.Women’s basketball hits the road
The Florida women’s basketball team heads to Athens, Georgia, to face the No. 24 Bulldogs today. Tipoff is set for 7 p.m.alligatorSports Podcast
Graham Hall, Richard Johnson and Morgan Moriarty discussed Florida’s new wide receivers coach, PDQ and more. Tune in at alligator.org/sports/podcast or download on iTunes using the keyword “alligatorSports.”JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Chris Chiozza is making strides in his first year at UF.
A four-star recruit out of Memphis (Tenn.) White Station High, the freshman point guard went through the growing pains early this season, and it didn’t take him long to realize how much room he still had to develop his game.
“It’s been a tough season so far,” Chiozza said. 
“I didn’t plan on it being easy, but not this hard. … I learned 
more in the first week than I did in four years of high school.”
And he has shown progression throughout the season.
In 23 games this season, Chiozza leads the Gators and is 
tied for sixth in the Southeastern Conference with 36 steals. 
The freshman also boasts 
a 1.68 assist-to-turnover ra-tio, good for 15th among SEC players who have re-
corded at least 40 assists and seventh among SEC freshmen 
who fit that category.
“I think I’ve grown a lot since I first got here and coach has 
been talking with me a lot about that,” Chiozza said. “Lights 
out I’m not the same person I was when I got here, basketball-
wise, but I’m the same person mentally and how I come to 
practice every day.”
Chiozza will look to continue his development when Flori-
da hosts Ole Miss at 7 tonight in the O’Connell Center.
The Gators (12-11, 5-5 Southeastern Conference) lost their 
first game against the Rebels (16-7, 7-3 SEC) this season, a 72-71 defeat on Jan. 24 in Oxford, Mississippi.
And this time around, Florida will likely be without start-
ing shooting guard Michael Frazier II (high ankle sprain), 
who scored 27 points on 7-of-11 shooting — including mak-
ing 6-of-8 shots from three-point range — in the first game between the two teams.
The Rebels had four players score in double figures in that 
matchup, with point guard Jarvis Summers scoring a team-
high 16 points on 5-of-11 shooting.
But Donovan knows keying in on one individual player 
will not be enough to stop a Rebels offense that ranks second 
in the SEC with 74.3 points per game.
“You can try to take Summers out offensively, if you want, 
by trying to trap and do those kinds of things,” Donovan said, “but at the end of the day, between (LaDarius) White and (Stefan) Moody and a lot of other guys they have in the front court, it’s leaving those guys open. That’s why they’re a bal-
anced, well-scoring team.”
With Frazier out, Florida is going to look for more play-
ers — Chiozza included — to take a larger role on both sides 
of the ball.
“We just got to play good team defense, and just be bought 
in to our system, and not worry about one player in particu-lar,” Chiozza said. “Just play against them, and not just one player.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza drives the ball into the paint during Florida’s 
68-61 loss to No. 1 Kentucky on Saturday in the O’Connell Center. 
Freshman adjusting to collegiate basketball
UF to host Ole Miss
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @pinakk12
Lauren Haeger and the Gators were 
too much the Dolphins to handle, as No. 1 UF routed Jacksonville 16-1 on Wednes-day night at the Debbie and Fred Pruitt 
Softball Complex in Jacksonville.
Leading off the top of the second in-
ning, senior Bailey Castro blasted a solo 
home run, her second of the season, to give the Gators a 1-0 lead. 
Castro hit her first dinger against Jack-
sonville (2-4) on Sunday.
She finished the night 
perfect at the plate, go-ing 3-for-3.  
Following Castro’s 
blast, the Gators (6-0) loaded the bases before junior Taylor Schwarz hit a sharp ground ball 
to the shortstop for an 
RBI single to give UF a 
2-0 lead.
With the bases still loaded, junior 
Kelsey Stewart worked an RBI walk, 
which was followed by a run-scoring ground ball from freshman Nicole De-Witt, who reached on an error to boost UF’s lead to 4-0.
Still in the second inning, junior Kirsti 
Merritt drove in a run with a sacrifice fly to right field before Haeger stepped to the plate and crushed a two-run double to center field to give the Gators a 7-0 lead.
After Jacksonville swapped pitchers, 
Kayli Kvistad tacked on two more runs with a two-run double down the right-field line. 
The freshman tallied a game-high four UF softball 
run rules
Jacksonville
BASEBALL
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
The Florida baseball team took a hit 
from which it might take some time to re-
cover.
Sophomore first baseman and out-
fielder Peter Alonso broke his foot during practice on Tuesday, as first reported by Fightin’ Gators and later confirmed by UF, and will be out for the foreseeable future.
UF did not provide a timetable for 
Alonso’s return to the lineup.
Alonso has been a member of Florida’s 
starting lineup since Opening Day of the 2014 season.
The Tampa native started in 58 games 
last season — 30 as the designated hitter, 24 at first base and four at third base — and saw action in two more games during his freshman year.
Alonso earned a spot 
on the Southeastern Con-ference All-Freshman team as well as the Na-tional Collegiate Baseball Writers’ Association’s 
Freshman All-American 
second team after batting 
.264 with 32 RBI, 19 walks, 18 runs, six doubles, four homers and two triples.
He also landed a spot on Perfect Game’s 
Summer Collegiate All-America first team after finishing second in the Northwoods League in home runs (18), third in batting average (.354) and fifth in RBI (53) while playing for the Madison (Wis.) Mallards.
Florida opens its 2015 season on Friday 
with a three-game series against Rhode Is-land.Sophomore injures foot, out for beginning of the season
Alonso
Walton
SEE SOFT, PAGE 15UF Men’s Bask etball  ERICHA FASSBENDER 
WON ALL-AROUND AGAINST ARKANSAS.
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Ericha Fassbender isn’t used to 
being in the spotlight, but she isn’t 
worried.
Handling the unknown is some-
thing the freshman has become quite good at this season.
This last week was just more of 
the same.
The week started last Monday, 
Feb. 2, when freshman Kennedy Baker suffered a concussion, giving Fassbender the opportunity to com-
pete in her first all-around competi-
tion against Arkansas.
Then came the actual meet that 
Friday night, when she played a 
huge role in Florida’s victory by ac-
tually winning the all-around title. 
The days following were a 
whirlwind of congratulations from 
friends and family, and it all cul-minated Tuesday when Fassbender 
was recognized as the Southeastern 
Conference Freshman of the Week.
“I am still just in shock,” Fass-
bender said. “It’s just so much atten-
tion that I’m not used to getting.”
That’s been the theme for Fass-
bender’s journey this year.
As a home-schooler from Katy, Texas — a town of just over 14,000 people — coming to the 50,000 student-environment of UF wasn’t easy.
“That was a big change,” Fass-
bender said. “I just think I put so much unwanted stress on myself just worrying about all of that.”
Next came adjusting to collegiate 
gymnastics. 
In her hometown gym, each 
gymnast practiced far fewer rou-tines a week than at UF, and having some sort of error wasn’t as big of a deal.
But Fassbender said the pace 
with which her Florida teammates practiced was totally new to her, and she initially struggled to grasp the level of emphasis her coaches put on every single routine.“Here, you have to try and make 
the corrections really fast, every single turn, making sure each turn is perfect,” Fassbender said.
Once she got a handle on that, 
her next goal was to break into the lineup, which she accomplished be-fore the start of the season.
She suffered a fall in her first 
meet at Ball State, and scored in the 9.7-range for the first few weeks. She said she expected struggles to start, though, and she wasn’t overly dis-
appointed with herself.
But during that same time, her 
freshman teammates Alex McMur-
try and Baker began to burst on the 
scene, leaving Fassbender feeling 
like she wasn’t doing enough for her 
team.
“I will say, the first couple weeks 
I was like ‘Wow, they’re doing re-ally well, I need to step up and reach 
the level that they’re at,’” said Fass-
bender. 
And with those two competing at 
such a high level, Fassbender wasn’t able to make more than two event 
lineups in any of the first four meets.
But when Baker suffered her con-
cussion, the door was opened for 
Fassbender, who was completely 
caught off guard when the coaches 
informed her she would be the re-
placement.
Continue reading this story online 
at alligatorSports.org.
RBIs.
The Gators added four runs 
in the third inning as Merritt hit 
her second RBI sacrifice fly ball of the game and Haeger ripped an RBI single to left field that scored Stewart from third base. 
Kvistad drove in two more 
runs with a pop-up to the sec-ond baseman, who couldn’t catch it cleanly.
“When we start to get some 
runs, it’s like blood in the wa-ter,” coach Tim Walton said in a release. 
“Our hitters get a lot more 
aggressive and the lead starts to grow.”
In the circle, Haeger, who 
drove in three runs, dominated the Dolphins, striking out six batters through her three in-nings of work. 
The senior also gave up three 
hits, all of which were singles.
Already up 13-0 heading 
into the top of the fourth inning, the Gators scored another three runs – all with the bases loaded. Seniors Francesca Martinez 
and Jessica Damico walked, and Briana Little was hit by a pitch with the bags full.
Jacksonville added its lone 
run in the bottom of the fourth inning when senior Lexie Bal-lard hit a solo home run off of freshman Aleshia Ocasio, who came back and struck out the next three batters, stopping the Dolphins’ momentum.
Sophomore Delanie Gourley 
struck out the side in the bottom of the fifth inning to close out the 16-1 win. 
Combined, Florida pitchers 
surrendered one earned run on four hits and struck out 12 in five innings. 
“We had six strikeouts in 
relief today, [which was] very important,” Walton said. “That mainly goes to the fact that we wanted to get them all in the game, keep them sharp and get them ready for five games this weekend.”
The Gators next game will 
be a home game against North Carolina State on Friday at 6 p.m. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Coach Rhonda Faehn congratulates freshman Ericha Fassbender following her balance beam rou-tine during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against Georgia on Jan. 30 in the O’Connell Center.
Freshman gymnast dealing with adjustment to unfamiliar settings
LACROSSE
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Florida was calling it a bounce-back game, a 
game to fix the problems it encountered on opening day against North Carolina, the No. 2 ranked team in the nation. 
On the road in Jacksonville on Wednesday night, 
the Gators stormed back and repaired any damage they may have suffered against UNC. 
No. 4 Florida (1-1) defeated Jacksonville (0-1) 17-8 
in the Gators’ first road game of the young season. 
Florida got exactly the production 
it was looking for from both the of-
fense and defense and, after a bit 
of a slow start, simply dominated 
the Dolphins.
Senior Shannon Gilroy has 
picked up this season exactly 
where she left off in 2014, when she led the nation with 86 goals. 
Gilroy had a team-high five goals on Wednes-
day night and made history in the process. Gilroy has now scored for Florida in 18 straight games, the 
third longest streak in team history. 
With her performance against Jacksonville, Gil-
roy also took sole possession of second place on 
Florida’s all-time scoring list. 
She is just 12 goals behind Kitty Cullen, who had 
203 as a Gator.
“She (Gilroy) had a big game, and she actually 
was sick, we weren’t even sure she was gonna be able to play,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “I was 
really pleased overall, obviously with Shannon, and 
Sammi (Burgess) and Mollie (Stevens), they had a 
really good supporting cast.”
The Gators had seven goal scorers on Wednesday 
night and received contributions from key offensive 
players who had quiet games in the season opener. 
Sophomore Sammi Burgess and senior Nora Barry were two players in particular for Florida who 
needed to get more involved in the offense against Jacksonville and back to their performance level of last season.
Burgess, who didn’t get the start against Jackson-
ville, rebounded with an impressive outing against the Dolphins with three goals. 
Barry recorded two goals along with two draw 
controls and three ground balls.
For the Gators’ offense to be where the team 
wants it to be, among the best in the country, Bur-gess and Barry need to play big roles week after 
week. 
They did so Wednesday night and the boost they 
gave the offense was visible on the field. 
“I think it’s a huge confidence booster,” O’Leary 
said of Burgess and Barry. “I think with those guys that’s important if you want to play with confidence, 
you want to play with that kind of attitude, and I 
think they went out and competed hard tonight.”
Sophomore Mollie Stevens continued her im-
pressive start to the season with three more goals on 
Wednesday, giving her seven in the first two games 
of 2015. 
Redshirt junior Nicole Graziano is also turning 
heads in her first two games back after missing most 
of 2014 with an ACL injury. 
Graziano added two goals and three draw con-
trols against Jacksonville. 
Overall, the game against the Dolphins was 
about Florida improving on its faults that were ex-posed last Saturday against UNC. 
The Gators wanted to improve on draw controls, 
which they won 18-9 on Wednesday, and be gener-
ally more well-rounded on offense.
Seventeen goals from seven different players 
proved good enough for O’Leary.
“I couldn’t be more proud of their effort,” O’Leary 
said. “I think they went out hard, they played well...so I’m happy with the performance tonight.”UF routs Jacksonville for first win
SOFT , from page 14Florida’s pitchers 
struck out 12 batters 
in five innings of work
O’Leary
 COACH BRYAN SHELTON 
SET UP BROOMS ON THE NETS TO HELP PLAYERS IMPROVE THEIR AIM.
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @Cay_Underwood
The Gators are bringing out the 
brooms.
After a not-so-pretty win against 
No. 32 Florida State, coach Bryan 
Shelton is ready to sweep away any 
problems the team has before No. 
14 Florida’s next match and South-eastern Conference opener against No. 4 Georgia on Feb. 26.
Shelton said he was pleased to 
see Florida bring in a win in what he considers one of UF’s worst matches against FSU, but the third-year head coach has not been im-
pressed with the team’s serving this 
season.
“Fifty percent of the points are 
over within three shots,” Shelton said. “You better serve well and you better return well or else you’re going to be on the losing end of a lot of points.”
To help his team improve on its 
serves, Shelton is setting up brooms on the net to help guide his play-ers to where they should be aiming their serves.“My coach from years ago 
brought out the brooms and I loved it,” Shelton said. “It really helped my serve, helped me develop my 
serve and that was the best shot of my game and I credit the brooms 
for a lot of it.”
Although Florida still has 14 
days until its next match, Shelton 
hopes the broom drill will become engraved in his players memory.
“For us, when you’re serving 
the ball a lot of the times you have 
to look through the net to see the 
target you’re aiming for,” Shelton said. “What the broom signiﬁ  es is 
what we call a primary target. It’s an aid that allows us to focus in on something that usually is not 
there.”
Shelton hopes a couple weeks of 
practice will break out the talent he 
knows his players possess.
He believes the Gators are pre-
pared for SEC play, especially after their match against their rival com-petitor.
“I think playing at Florida State 
felt like an SEC match,” the third year coach said. 
“They were ﬁ  red up, the team 
was ﬁ  red up, the crowd was ﬁ  red up…I think that’s the type of atmo-sphere that we’ll face on the road in the SEC.”
Maxx Lipman is looking for-
ward to the second half of UF’s 
season and has no doubts that the 
youthful team is prepared for the matches ahead of them.
“I think these next three weeks 
are a good break. It gives us time to reassess the ﬁ  rst quarter of the sea-son and gives us a chance to work on what we’ve been struggling in,” the sophomore captain said. 
“Given these two, three weeks 
we’ll have a really good opportu-nity to work on some of our weak-nesses and really turn into our strengths going into a really tough SEC season.”16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Bryan Shelton talks with sophomores Elliott Orkin and Maxx Lipman during Florida’s 9-3 win 
against William & Mary on Jan. 10 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
MEN’S TENNISFlorida sweeping away serving problems during practice