VOLUME 109 ISSUE 121 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Harn to host event for visually impaired
It will include a touchable installation, pg 8.  
Consent is not sexy — it’s necessary
Read Robyn Smith’s column, pg 7. UF vet program to hold eye and heart 
exams for service dogs
Cardiology services offered after year break, pg. 5. 88/62
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  12SPORTS 13
Elliott Orkin 
and the UF men’s 
tennis team looks 
to continue its win 
streak when it faces 
Arkansas today. Read 
the story on page 15.
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
Gainesville city commissioners 
postponed a decision on Thursday to 
move forward with a proposed ordi-
nance that would prohibit camping or sleeping in public areas.
In an almost-packed City Hall au-
ditorium, City Manager Russ Black-
burn proposed a draft of an ordinance 
that would place people sleeping on 
public right-of-ways like sidewalks, 
or setting up camp in those same 
public places, under arrest.This proposal came into play 
because city staff believe the avail-able resources at Grace Marketplace 
should allow the homeless who still 
live downtown to relocate.
Commissioners emphasized the 
goal is not to jail people who are 
camping on public property, but to 
bring these people to the resources 
they need.
“There isn’t anyone I see in our 
city staff that really wants to arrest 
somebody,” Commissioner Helen 
Warren said. “The last stop should not be a sidewalk.”
The proposed language and deﬁ  -
nitions for the ordinance include camp or camping, which involves 
any sort of temporary shelter or the 
use of bedding while sleeping in a 
public place. 
Public places include property 
generally visible to public view or 
owned by a public entity and open to 
the public. 
But the ordinance might not be 
drafted for a while because com-
STELLA HEEKIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
James Cuda was at an Italian 
restaurant in Chicago on Christ-
mas Eve when he received the email of a lifetime.
Cuda, who has a Ph.D. in ento-
mology and is a professor in the UF Entomology and Nematology Department, was one of 10 re-cipients to receive the Fulbright Scholarship grant, a highly com-petitive program through the U.S. Department of State’s Bu-reau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
UF was ranked third in the nation for research institutions among 13 top-producing schools for most Fulbright Scholars, ac-cording to the ECA and publi-cized by “The Chronicle of High-er Education” in early March.
“The restaurant went abso-
lutely nuts,” Cuda said. “It was really great; it was a really great experience.”
UF was ranked behind Har-
vard University and University of California at Berkeley.
Cuda’s grant is going toward 
a ﬁ  eld impact study in Brazil on the effect of a speciﬁ  c insect on the country’s peppertrees when treatments, such as pesticides and fungicides, are applied.
Nargiza Ludgate, grants and 
contracts coordinator for UF’s Fulbright Program, said this ranking highlights UF’s strong international involvement, which brings students’ rich cultures to campus and creates collaborative opportunities.
“So our main goal is to raise 
awareness about all these differ-ent opportunities and help fac-ulty and our students to explore these opportunities and apply,” Ludgate said. 
UF ranked among top in nation for Fulbright Scholars
Ranked behind Harvard, UC BerkeleyZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
The future isn’t certain for Walk Safe, the safety ser-
vice that began in response to a string of on-campus as-saults last semester.
University Police’s Walk Safe program has served 
a total of 4,142 students since it began in October. It is guaranteed to run until the end of the semester, and then it’s up to the ofﬁ  ce of the vice president and Student Government to decide if it should continue, said Chad Holway, a UPD ofﬁ  cer and the program’s coordinator.
Holway said it developed through emergency fund-
ing.
“The ofﬁ  ce of the vice president had agreed to fund, 
on an emergency basis, a safety board which was devel-oped at that time,” he said.
It would cost $228,925 to fund the program annually, 
according to a Walk Safe cost assessment form. It was $27,432 in the Fall and $76,308 this Spring. Employees worked eight-hour shifts every day at an average of $8.64 an hour. There was a record 1,030 escorts in Feb-ruary and an overall average of 700 escorts per month since the Fall.
The safety board will decide whether to place the 
program on a permanent budget for the upcoming se-mester.
Holway said the Walk Safe program runs on a year-
to-year basis.
“It’s above our heads and is not something that’s be-
ing decided by the police department,” he said. “This program is in its very, very immature stage, and it’s up for review every year, just as all of us are.”
Walk Safe began with volunteers patrolling UF’s 
main campus and sorority row following a series of at-tempted sexual assaults in September. The small groups Future unclear 
for UF Walk Safe program 
SEE SAFE, PAGE 4SEE COMMISSION, PAGE 4
Aaron Albright / Alligator 
Trisha Ingle, 46, a Gainesville activist and musician, spoke to the City Commission on Thursday night at City 
Hall. “It shouldn’t be illegal to have no place to go,” she said.
City tables sleeping-in-public draftNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 121 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
77/54THUNDER-
STORMS
76/54THUNDER-
STORMS
86/63RAIN
86/63SUNNY
88/62
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Come out to Lake Wauburg’s 
South Shore for a once-a-se-mester opportunity to climb 
to new heights. RecSports 
is now offering two days of climbing and adventure on the 40-foot-tall Alpine Tower 
and the High Ropes and 
Elements Challenge Course on Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The High Ropes and Elements 
Challenge Course will be 
open climb for pre-registered students on Saturday and the Alpine Tower (no registra-
tion necessary) will be open 
climb on Sunday. No equip-ment is necessary, but don’t forget your Gator 1 Card.
Weekend Warrior: Training for 
PowerJoin RecSports on Saturday for Weekend Warrior: 
Training for Power from 
1 to 2 p.m. in the Student Recreational Center Cardio Functional Area. With equipment ranging from 
kettlebells to plyo boxes, 
this workshop will highlight the benefits of training for power and highlight several 
exercises used for successful 
training. No registration is required and the event is free for UF students.
‘After Innocence’ film showing
Gainesville Citizens for 
Alternatives to the Death 
Penalty will air the 95 min-
ute film “After Innocence” 
on Monday at 7 p.m. in the 
lounge at St Augustine’s 
Catholic Church and Student 
Center, 1738 W. University 
Ave. The film follows the 
story of seven men, includ-ing one from Florida, who 
were wrongfully convicted 
and spent years in prison 
for crimes they did not com-
mit. The public views exon-erations as success stories 
— wrongs that have been 
righted. The film reveals the 
human toll of wrongful im-
prisonment can last far lon-ger than the sentence. Film 
is followed by refreshments 
and discussion. For more 
information, email gtdiller@
ufl.edu
Fracking Documentary 
Coming to High Springs
Our Santa Fe River, along 
with Food & Water Watch, and Physicians for Social 
Responsibility will show 
“Groundswell Rising,” a 
film that examines the dan-
gers of fracking. After the WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vote to Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest 
videos are up on the STRIVE 
Facebook page and awaiting 
your views! Check out all three and like your favorites. Videos are awarded points in the Fan 
Favorites category of judg-
ing based on Facebook likes at facebook.com/STRIVEUF/videos.
Musicology symposium
Join us for the Student Society for Musicology’s Music and Meaning Research 
Symposium, an interdisci-
plinary conference. Keynote speaker is Thomas Turino, professor emeritus of musi-cology and anthropology at 
the University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign.The event is Friday from 1:55 to 6 p.m. and Saturday 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
in Music Building, Room 101. 
This event is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion visit ufmusicology.word-press.com.
UF Fulbright Speakers Lecture 
Series presents “Plant Biology Mini-Symposium”
This event takes place Friday 
from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Fifield Hall, Rooms 1304-08. The presenters are Emilio M. Bruna, depart-
ment of Wildlife Ecology and 
Conservation and the Center for Latin American Studies, a Faculty Fulbright Scholar in 
2009-2010 in Brazil; Annette 
Fahrenkrog, a Fulbright Ph.D. student from Chile in the Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology Program in 
the School of Forest Resources 
and Conservation; and Lilit Vardanyan, a senior research scientist, UNESCO Chair - 
Life Sciences International 
Postgraduate Educational Center (Armenia), current visiting Fulbright Scholar in the Soil and Water Sciences 
Department. For additional 
information, please contact Charles Guy, Department of Environmental Horticulture.
GatorNights
The land of Panem welcomes you to the epicenter of all of the districts, The Capitol, on 
Friday from 8 p.m. until 1:00 
a.m. in the Reitz Union. The Mockingjay has a message for the people of Panem — a spe-
cial outdoor showing of the 
movie “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 1” at 9 p.m. on the North Lawn. Should weather turn damp, the 
Mockingjay’s message will still 
be broadcast at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. It’s always Friday, always free, 
with a Gator 1 Card.
Gator Open Climbfilm, Craig Stevens, whose 
Pennsylvania community has seen the devastation that the 
fracking industry can have, 
will talk about what could 
await Florida’s residents if fracking moves forward in the state. Free to the public,  it will 
air Tuesday at High Springs 
Civic Center, 330 Santa Fe 
Blvd.  High Springs  Doors open at 6:30 p.m. and the film begins at 7 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
A story published on Thursday 
under the headline “UF grad student’s band on signing re-cord deal, music styles,” incor-rectly listed Joshua Berry’s age as 34. Berry is 31.
A story published Thursday 
under the headline “Controlled burn smoke wafts onto campus, concerns stu-dents,” incorrectly stated that the next burn scheduled for Friday will be near the Florida Museum of Natural History. It will actually occur near Austin 
Cary Forest in Waldo.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffThe Dogs Days Are Over
Julie Redd, a former inmate at the Alachua County Jail, scratches 
Miah, the mixed one-year-old Weimaraner dog, at the Paws on Parole graduation ceremony Thursday afternoon. Redd, who was released from jail Wednesday morning, was a handler with the program; Miah was the last dog she trained as an inmate.
 FROM LUNGS TO TOURETTES.
STAFF REPORT
UF is teeming with brilliant people working on 
cutting-edge technology that saves lives, reveals 
mysteries and solves problems. We’re here to share the latest in UF’s advancements, research and stud-ies, with the help of UF Health Newsnet.
Breathe RightUF Health Shands Transplant Center is work-
ing to increase the longevity of donated lungs and shorten the time patients will wait for a transplant, according to UF Health Newsnet.
The center is one of 15 nationwide participating 
in a study evaluating the XVIVO Lung Perfusion System. About 80 percent of donor lungs don’t meet transplants’ standards, and the system will help 
them stay viable to improve eligibility. Some of the 
lungs may have potentially reversible problems and could make successful transplantation candidates.
The machine, called XPS, pumps oxygen and a 
special preservation solution into the lungs to main-tain and possibly improve their health outside the body. The FDA approved the device last year but required the manufacturer to continue studies to find additional information on its use.
Tiago Noguchi Machuca, a UF Health lung 
transplant surgeon who leads UF Health’s lung per-fusion program, said the technique should also pre-vent deaths by shortening the waiting period.
UF Health transplant providers will be certified 
to use the XVIVO technology in late April after a several-week training process.  
Beating Brain TumorsThe fight against brain tumors using vaccines 
may have found an assist through a booster vaccine.A new UF study examined the use of vaccines 
for treating glioblastoma, which is the most com-mon and most lethal form of brain tumor. Research-ers from UF Health and Duke Cancer Institute fo-cused on a common virus called cytomegalovirus.
Researchers took a specific type of immune cells, 
called dendritic cells, and injected them with a pro-tein that triggered an immune system response that targeted the virus.
Three of the six patients who received the teta-
nus booster were alive at the time of analysis, and the survival times from their diagnoses ranged be-tween 57 and 106 months, including one patient whose tumor shows no sign of growth and who is 
still living eight years after treatment.
Advances in Tourette’s treatment
A new experimental surgery could be more 
widely used in patients with severe cases of To-urette’s syndrome by implanting electrodes into a patient’s brain, according to recommendations pub-lished in the Movement Disorders journal.
A new set of recommendations for using deep 
brain stimulation to treat Tourette’s syndrome has been published, including guidance from two UF Health neuroscientists. Researchers now suggest the age requirement be removed for deep brain stimulation surgery for patients with severe To-urette’s Syndrome. It was originally recommended that patients be at least 25 years old.
“Tics may also become better as children become 
adults,” said Jonathan Mink, co-author of the cur-rent set of recommendations and lead author of the 2006 set of recommendations. “Now that we have learned that deep brain stimulation is safe, the abso-lute age requirements have been dropped.”
In the new recommendations, there is also still a 
lack of consensus on the most effective brain target to stimulate for Tourette’s syndrome.Research roundup: medical featsmissioners need more infor-
mation before they can even 
proceed to discuss a draft.
Commissioner Lauren 
Poe said he has no desire to move forward until the le-
gality and constitutionality 
of such a provision can be 
determined.
“There is no justice so 
long as there are people sleeping on our sidewalks,” 
he said.
Driving the current down-
town homeless population to 
Grace Marketplace would 
put a burden on the shelter that it is not equipped to 
handle, he said, and direct-
ing more attention to expand services at Grace is where the 
commission should focus.
Arupa Freeman, who ran 
Home Van — a service pro-viding resources directly to 
the homeless — for several 
years, mirrored his senti-
ment.
“We have a lot of services, 
and they look good on paper, but they’re understaffed or 
underfunded. And we need 
to pay more money to take 
care of this problem,” Free-
man said. “Nobody wants to 
sleep on the sidewalk, so my 
encouragement is to spend money. Help people one-on-
one. Get people off the side-
walk.”4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
Alligator File Photo
From left: In this file photo from September, UF nutritional sciences freshman Stephie Cyril, 17, requests 
a walking escort from student volunteers, UF political science junior Ryan Wolis, 20, and UF finance sophomore Nathaniel Reiff, 19, outside Library West.
COMMISSION , from page 1Commissioners need 
more info for actionCAMPUS
NATALIA ARTEAGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is working to research social media-
user activity on a large scale.
Aaron Beveridge, a UF graduate research 
fellow and English Ph.D. candidate, worked 
with Nicholas Van Horn, who has a Ph.D. in 
cognitive psychology, to create MassMine, a 
computer application that helps sort big data.
Beveridge said MassMine can collect, ar-
chive and analyze data from social networks 
to use for academic research. It uses applica-tion program interfaces (APIs), to access per-
sonal data through social networks, which programmers then use to create social net-work applications.
MassMine has accessed data from Twitter 
and will start collecting from other social me-dia sites like Reddit and Facebook, Beveridge said.
“By nature, it’s hard to gain access to that 
data outside of APIs,” he said. “It’s all about collaborative, free, community software.”
MassMine has been working alongside the 
HiPerGator — Florida’s most powerful com-puter — which allows it to run more efficient-ly and securely store data from social media, said Erik Deumens, director of UF Research Computing.
“If you have a large amount of data, you 
also need a large amount of computing power to deal with the data,” Deumens said.
Students are taking advantage of Mass-
Mine in class. Patricia Matamoros, a UF tele-
communication junior, is collecting data in 
Writing Through Media.
“MassMine helps us to be able to interact 
with the data, and I think it makes all the in-formation accessible so we can view it closely,” Matamoros said.
The HiPerGator is also used by UF stu-
dents, computer scientists, engineers and oth-
ers for research activities in advanced classes.
“People are so interested in using this re-
source, and because it is research, there is al-
ways something that is different, something innovative,” Deumens said.
Many researchers want to work with the 
HiPerGator, Deumens said, so UF Research and Computing is planning to add a new re-search supercomputer by August.  New computer application sorts big data from social media
 AUTHORITIES WILL MOST 
LIKELY NOT FILE CHARGES.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
fice has identified the gunman who 
reportedly shot a local man Wednes-day morning as Timothy Williams, 27.
Just before 1 a.m. Wednesday, 
deputies found a man’s body, later identified as Van S. Gourdine, 36, with a gunshot wound to the head outside a room at Americas Best Val-ue Inn, located at 7413 W. Newberry Road. Williams told deputies he had shot the gun, Alachua County Sher-iff’s Office spokesman Art Forgey said.
Williams was in the motel room 
with Gourdine’s ex-girlfriend, Sher-mil Perry, 29, when Gourdine broke 
the room’s window trying to reach 
Perry. Gourdine had searched for Perry for several days and had threatened to hurt her, according to a sheriff’s office press release.
Williams and Perry have been 
friends for some time, Forgey said, but it is unclear how long the two have known each other.
Though deputies are still investi-gating the incident, Forgey said the shooting appears to be justified after listening to witness testimonies and obtaining voicemails and text mes-sages left by Gourdine.
“We don’t anticipate any charges 
being filed,” Forgey said. He said af-ter deputies finished investigating, it 
would be presented to the state at-
torney’s office for further review.
Gourdine was charged in more 
than 30 criminal cases in Alachua County and Polk County, accord-ing to county records. In December, deputies arrested Gourdine for re-portedly slapping Perry in the face, but charges were dropped in Febru-
ary due to insufficient evidence.
Gunman of Wed. shooting identified  
LINDSEY SPATOLA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Isabella Camacho found-
ed Gators for the Children’s 
Heart Foundation last year to bring the Congenital Heart 
Walk to Gainesville.
Camacho, a UF applied 
physiology and kinesiol-
ogy junior, will walk for her 
8-year-old brother, who was 
born with a congenital heart 
defect.
“Watching such a little 
person be so strong was in-
credibly inspiring,” Cama-
cho, 20, wrote in an email. 
She’s helping Gainesville 
host its first Congenital Heart Walk on Sunday on Flavet 
Field, and she is bringing her 
friend, American Idol Season 
13 finalist Emily Piriz.
The Congenital Heart 
Walk is a nationwide event to raise money for research and programs. In Gainesville, it 
will be a 3-kilometer walk around UF’s campus.
Meg Gardiner, a coordina-
tor for the Congenital Heart Association, said more than 200 people have already reg-istered for the event, which will feature performances 
and families’ stories of con-
genital heart defects. She said the goal is to change congeni-tal heart defect statistics.  
“We discovered that 
Gainesville was a part of Florida we wanted to tap into,” she said.
Camacho said the orga-
nization has worked hard to reign in the community.
“I am so excited to see 
that our hard work and dedi-cation brought UF and the Gainesville community to-gether to combat congenital heart disease,” she said. GNV to host first 
congenital heart walk
Fall’s assault suspect still not caught
of volunteers evolved into a full force of 39 employees 
who are available to walk with students on campus from 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. every night, said Michelle Tapia, 18, one of the program’s supervisors.
“It’s an amazing, innovative program that really 
helps people,” the UF journalism freshman said.Holway said he believes Walk Safe is just as im-
portant as any other safety measure on campus.
“I think that our job is to keep campus safe, and 
any resource that we can put into place is beneficial to our students,” he said. “Anything that you can tie back to keeping people safe is important.”
Asia McKenzie, a 22-year-old UF public relations 
junior, began working with the program since its ear-ly days. She said she believes it would be a mistake to end the program at this time.
“I love my job because I get to help people in a 
small way,” McKenzie said. “But since the police never caught the suspect, I don’t think my job is over just yet.”
Editor’s Note: The writer of this article was a paid Walk Safe escort from October to December. SAFE , from page 1
“I love my job because I get to help 
people in a small way. But since the police 
never caught the suspect, I don’t think my 
job is over just yet.”
Asia McKenzie
22-year-old UF public relations juniorFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Tunes and Tatts
Shontel Coleman, a 22-year-old UF natural resources conservation senior, gets a henna tattoo from Savan -
nah Collins, director of art for Pride Awareness Month, on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. PAM orga -
nizers played music, gave henna tattoos and hosted games to engage people passing by.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Caryn Plummer examines the eye of a service dog during the UF Small Animal Hospital’s service dog 
eye screening event last May.
ERICA BROWN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Equal Access Clinic 
Network is encouraging com-
munity members to participate in its annual fundraising run this weekend to help keep one 
of the clinics afloat.
The 18th annual Equal Ac-
cess Clinic Network 5K is at 
8 a.m. Saturday. Organizers hope it will raise at least $5,000 to go toward lab and prescrip-tion costs of the clinic located at 1707 N. Main St., said Michelle Russin, the clinic’s financial co-
ordinator. 
The run will begin at South-
west Recreation Center. Regis-
tration is $15 for children and $20 for adults. All proceeds will go toward the network, which includes four permanent clinics and several temporary clinics that are free to the public and run by UF medical or pre-med-ical students.
Russin said if the run 
doesn’t raise the target amount, 
the Main Street clinic may close.
“We want to gain some 
publicity for the clinic and raise 
awareness about our clinic and what it stands for,” she said.
Tala Rizkallah, a UF health 
education and behavior sopho-more, volunteers at the clinics through the American Medical 
Student Association and said 
she hopes the goal is met.
“We need to stay open be-
cause everyone needs to get medical care,” Rizkallah, 19, said. “Medical care is a right. Not a privilege.”5K to raise money 
for clinic network
CAMPUS
ALEX HARRIS
Alligator Staff Writer aharris@alligator.org
UF students gained a trustee 
and lost two majors during a meet-
ing of the university system’s gov-erning body.
The Board of Governors, which 
oversees the operation of Florida’s 12 public universities, met Wednes-day and Thursday to discuss topics like state funding for education and technological advances in online learning.
Ashley Spicola, a policy coordi-nator in the executive office of the governor, spoke briefly about Gov. Rick Scott’s ideas to lower the cost of college, which includes abolish-ing sales tax on textbooks.
“The governor believes college 
affordability should be an ongoing discussion,” she said.
The board also discussed Scott’s 
additional $100 million he hopes to allocate to performance fund-ing, which rewards top-performing state schools with extra funding.
“Combined with the $100 mil-lion from last year, this sends a strong message that quality edu-cation is a priority for our state,” Board of Governors Chair Mori Hosseini said.
UF is the Florida school in line to 
receive the most performance fund-ing, but the funding isn’t finalized until Scott’s budget is confirmed by the state legislators.
The board finalized the termina-
tion of several majors throughout the state, including two UF Ph.D. concentrations — Marriage and Family Counseling and Mental Health Counseling.
Both were terminated due to 
low enrollment, but students seek-ing either degree will be steered toward Counseling and Counselor Education, which will now offer concentrations in both fields.
UF’s newest trustee, Anita 
Zucker, was also confirmed by the board. Zucker is a UF alumna and CEO of The InterTech Group, a Charleston-based global manufac-turing company. She also owns half of the South Carolina Stingrays, a minor-league ice hockey team.
As a trustee, Zucker will serve 
on the board that decides issues such as tuition raises and the cre-ation of new UF majors and depart-ments.
Board of Governors approves UF trustee, strikes out majors
 CARDIOLOGY SERVICES TO 
BE OFFERED AFTER YEAR BREAK.
RALPHY LOPEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eye examinations are expen-
sive, even for animals.
UF’s Small Animal Hospital 
will be offering free eye screening 
and bring back heart examinations 
for service animals on May 8.
This is an annual event, but 
there was not enough available 
clinical staff to offer the cardiology service last year. The hospital hired another faculty specialist to do so, wrote Sarah Carey, director of pub-lic relations for the UF College of Veterinary Medicine, in an email.
The event is tied to a national 
philanthropic event sponsored by the American College of Veteri-nary Ophthalmologists.
“This event is such a wonderful 
opportunity for service dogs in our community,” she wrote. “We actu-ally even see dogs from through-out the state.”
Regular screening for ocular 
and cardiac disease can detect conditions that may threaten an animal’s quality of life, said Caryn Plummer, an associate professor and veterinary ophthalmologist at UF.
The program does not receive 
any outside funding. Plummer, 
her team and cardiology specialists 
volunteer their time one day a year to provide these exams.
Plummer said many ophthal-
mologists offer their screening ser-vices for service dogs regularly, es-pecially those that haven’t finished training.
“The ACVO saw the need to 
make this an official program and to offer yearly exams, since there are many ophthalmic conditions that change or develop over time,” Plummer said.
She said the service animals 
must be registered with a formal training program.
“Everyone who has been in-
volved in the program finds it enormously rewarding,” Carey wrote. “The dog owners and groups that provide services to dif-ferently abled persons who need services dogs are all grateful, and we generally have a full schedule of appointments.”UF vet program to hold eye and heart exams for service dogs“The governor believes 
college affordability should 
be an ongoing discussion.”
Ashley Spicola
governor’s office executive policy 
coordinatorReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org72 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: There isn’t one. As part of our rede-
sign coming this Monday, we will no longer have polls.
Thursday’s question: Do you think the 
campus concealed weapon bill will pass the Florida Legislature?69% YES
31% NOThis week, we were ankle deep in pollen, blinded by unkind 
sunlight while we trudged our way to class through sweat and swamp-ass. Luckily, we’ll be getting some time off to compen-sate for having to endure the god-awful months ahead. In the meantime, here’s a slow-descent-into-ﬁ  nals-and-sweat edition of … 
Darts & Laurels
This week, a pair of ever-controversial campus-concealed-
carry bills started slithering through the state legislature. The bills intend to open up UF and other college campuses to Con-
cealed Carry Permit holders, allowing them to be armed in class, 
in dining halls and in recreation areas. Despite overwhelming opposition from everyone who isn’t currently subscribed to American Riﬂ  eman magazine, it looks like the bills may pass. 
Now, granted, anybody abiding by the law would be a licensed 
21-year-old with dozens of hours of ﬁ  rearm experience. How-
ever, most university students, faculty and staff would rather live and work while not surrounded by conspicuously armed citizens. The problem we have with the bill is that it’s being tout-
ed as a one-step solution to campus rape and mass shootings. 
We can’t ﬁ  nd much unbiased data to support the claim that 
this would necessarily prevent mass shootings. But handing out 
glittery, pink pistols doesn’t seem like it’ll solve anything, given that 75 to 80 percent of rapes are committed by someone the vic-
tim knows and trusts. Who’s going to shoot a friend, boyfriend 
or colleague? In context of the skepticism rape victims face, 
with only 3 percent of rapists ever facing conviction, how can a potential victim be sure any kind of self-defense claim would hold up in court? Is this legislation really just a lazy, reactive 
solution on the part of pro-gun legislators? Just throw a bone to 
Second Amendment supporters and call it a day, rather than, 
you know, actually take steps to prevent rape, such as starting rape-prevention education in middle and high school sexual ed-ucation classes. Here’s a DART to concealed-carry-on-campus 
bills.
Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was re-elected 
to a fourth term this week, partially due to his skillful manipula-tion of Israel’s right-wing nationalist elements in the few days before elections ended. He drew support from the right by vow-ing no Palestinian state would ever be formed under his watch. Netanyahu publicly rejected the two-state solution, which is the basis of all international peace plans, including our own and formerly, one that Netanyahu supported. He also terriﬁ  ed Is-raelis into voting for him by saying leftist parties were busing Arab-Israelis to the polls. The tactics worked — Netanyahu was re-elected, at which point he reversed his earlier stance on the two-state solution to again support it. Because his 11th-hour promise was disingenuous and used the civil rights of an op-pressed minority as a fear gambit, we’re going to DART Ne-tanyahu.
Though it’s only ofﬁ  cially been out for four days, Kendrick 
Lamar’s “To Pimp a Butterﬂ  y” is already a modern hip-hop classic to many. It’s both intensely intimate and politically evoc-ative. In the aftermath of a year that saw immeasurable tragedy, the album is Lamar’s response for the black community. It’s the kind of record that only comes out once a decade. Here’s a LAU-
REL to Kendrick for giving us this gift. Fearmongering hinders problem-solving
We all reach a point when we are so stressed we 
think our world is spiraling out of control. It’s a terrifying feeling that is something akin to skydiv-
ing and not having your parachute open. Fear and anxiety can ruin a day, week, month, year or even a lifetime. More 
often than not, we pull through and move forward. How-
ever, what happens when the anxiety is affecting sizable portions of the world?
Yes, we live in challenging times ﬁ  lled with political and 
social strife and a world that sometimes feels like it’s on the brink of falling off a cliff. Instead of spiraling further down the rabbit hole, perhaps it’s time for us to take a collective deep breath, deal with the world’s challenges and calm down.
The fearmongering is on full display right now, and it 
appears to be working. In a heated re-election campaign, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu used ﬁ  ery and fearful rhetoric to convince voters that the best person to lead Israel is someone who is prepared to confront Iran, pos-sibly embroiling another Middle Eastern country in war. Stateside, controversial Texas Sen. Ted Cruz told a 3-year-old the world is on ﬁ  re because scaring the living daylights out of a toddler is the best course of action for a potential 
presidential contender.
Spreading fear and paranoia is nothing new for politi-
cal leaders. It’s a tactic that’s been used for centuries, but its 
renewal should scare us all. We live in uncertain times. Yes, the economy is on the mend, and with each passing month the economic news seems relatively strong. However, with the Islamic State group wreaking havoc in Syria and Iraq, Israel beating the war drums with Iran, a lack of action on climate change and complete paralysis in Congress, we 
seem like a world without direction, spiraling out of control. 
We are the skydiver careening toward the ground without a parachute.
We are doomed.Except, we’re not. When we succumb to fear we let those 
who instill the fear win. Yes, Netanyahu’s campaign of fear led to another term as prime minister, and Ted Cruz can con-tinue to provide toddlers with nightmares, but we can over-come the nonsense that threatens to paralyze civil society and lead us down a path of irrational deci-sions with dire consequences.
We can prevent war with Iran. 
We can stave off the worst of cli-mate change. We can end the Is-lamic State group’s reign of terror. We can end congressional grid-lock in the U.S. How do we sur-pass such incredible challenges?
We remain determined, strong and unwilling to cower 
to those who use fear as a weapon, wielding it like a loaded gun. We must demand that our leaders act sensibly, ratio-
nally and avoid spreading the same disease of fear and pan-
ic used by dictators and despotic rulers throughout human history. We cannot and should not follow our leaders blind-ly into additional overseas conﬂ  icts, with no end game, cost-ing us immeasurable amounts of blood and money in the process. The nonsense instigated by 47 Republican senators sending a letter to Iran promising to stonewall diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Iran should not be tolerated. We are better than that.
Young people across the U.S. have never known a time 
when our country was not involved in an armed conﬂ  ict of some kind. We must deal with threats to our nation, but if you think the greatest threat to the safety of the U.S. is Iran or the Islamic State group and not climate change, then you are ignoring what’s happening in Miami Beach and the sci-entists who estimate California has only one year of water left. 
If we fall prey to the fearmongering of leaders here and 
abroad and ignore the real challenges we face, then sadly, the doom-and-gloom predictions of those leaders may come true, but it will not be from the same threats. We don’t need prattling fearmongers. We need men and women who take action to better the world, not destroy it. 
You know, leaders.Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF graduate student in 
political campaigning. His column appears on Fridays. FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
I invited someone over to my place a few 
weeks ago. I texted them early in the day to meet up later in the night, but by the 
time we were supposed to meet up, I wasn’t feeling it. I was tired, but I felt bad for back-
ing out — I was the one who asked them to 
hook up and knew they would be disap-pointed. So, I kept my commitment and we met up.
It was sex that I agreed to, but was it sex 
under the basis of consent?
What is consent, even? In the most basic 
terms, consent is agreeing to something. In more sexual terms, consent can mean, “Yes, 
I agree to and would like to have sex with 
you under certain conditions that I feel com-fortable with.”
The “would like to” portion is important 
because it’s something we can sometimes gloss over. I’ve hooked up many times where I’ve said “yes,” but for various rea-sons — whether I was tired, felt sick or just wasn’t in the mood — I did not actually 
want to have sex.
A lot of these times, I said “yes” because 
I didn’t want to explain why I was saying 
“no.” I thought saying I was tired would be a silly excuse and felt the need to justify my “no.”We discussed this phenome-
non in “Yes Means Yes,” a posi-tive sexuality seminar that I’m participating in on campus. In the foreword of the book we’re 
discussing, “Yes Means Yes: Vi-
sions of Female Sexual Power and a World Without Rape,” Margaret Cho describes this as a “rape of the spirit.”
She says it’s “a dishonest 
portrayal or distortion of my own desire in order to appease another person — so it wasn’t rape at gunpoint, but rape as the al-
ternative to having to explain my reasons for 
not wanting to have sex.”
I get it — rape is a really strong word. But 
sex without consent isn’t sex. If you’re en-gaging in sexual activity, you need to know what consent is and is not.
Here are some things that you should 
know about consent:
Consent needs to be freely given, mean-
ing you cannot physically or emotionally co-erce someone into having sex with you. Say-ing something like, “But babe, we haven’t had sex in ages. It’s like you don’t even care anymore,” is emotionally coercive.
Consent to one thing does not mean con-sent to everything. You can consent to giving oral sex but not penetrative sex. You can consent to having sex with a condom but not sex without 
one — and yes, if your partner 
agrees to sex with a condom but you don’t wear one, that’s rape, because you’re ignoring the rules that your partner con-sented to sex under.
Prior consent does not equal current con-
sent. Just because someone had sex with you once doesn’t mean they want to have sex 
with you again. And just because someone 
isn’t saying “no” doesn’t mean they’re say-ing “yes.”
There have been campaigns to push for 
consent. You’ve probably heard “consent is sexy” before. It’s great to increase awareness about consent, but this does it in the wrong way.
The phrase, “consent is sexy” basically 
says, “This person didn’t sexually assault me. That’s so hot!” which is about as ridicu-lous as, “He didn’t burn my house down. What a turn on!” or, “She didn’t murder me. I’ve got a huge boner!”
At the end of the day, consent isn’t sexy. Rather, consent is necessary. Any sexual ac-tivity that occurs without consent isn’t sex — it’s rape.
Instead of saying that consent is sexy, 
let’s normalize it. Let’s bring the concept of 
consent out of the bedroom and into other 
areas of life.
You order broccoli with your dinner and 
your friend tells you they don’t like broc-coli. You don’t sit there going, “You’ll like this. Just try it. Please, for me?” Now replace broccoli with sex. Your friend said no. Re-spect that and move on.
Asking for consent doesn’t have to ruin 
the mood. Consent can be made sexy — for example, I don’t mind dirty talk when ask-ing if I’m into something, although some people might not appreciate that.
Or, just do a quick, 10-second check-in: 
“Hey, are you sure you want to do this right now?” If they say “yes,” carry on. If they hesitate, look unsure or say “no,” stop im-mediately.
Knowing your partner is enjoying them-
selves, knowing they want to be there, knowing they want to hook up with you? Now that’s sexy. 
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
Consent is not sexy, but it doesn’t need to be — it’s necessaryColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
A specter is haunting Russia — the specter of gangsta rap. Over the course of his 16-
year reign, Russian President Vladi-mir Putin has repeatedly afﬁ  rmed 
his status as a disciple of hip-hop’s 
more aggressive permutation. This could be seen most recently from March 5 until this past Monday, when Putin was nowhere to be seen, spurring both media outlets and the world audience to work themselves into a tizzy over where he may have gone and why.
Putin’s disappearance followed 
the Feb. 27 assassination of long-time opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, who was gunned down crossing the Bolshoy Moskvoretsky Bridge, which overlooks the Kremlin. Rus-sian authorities have captured ﬁ  ve Chechens connected to the murder, chalking up Nemtsov’s execution as 
another example of Muslim extrem-
ism. The odds of that being the ac-tual explanation are slim to none.
Over the last few days, several 
think pieces were published that sought to explain or rationalize Putin’s de-cision. In its article, “Putin Has Vanished, but Rumors Are Pop-
ping Up Everywhere,” 
The New York Times noted the theories that had emerged: Putin had contracted the ﬂ  u or suffered a stroke; he had ﬂ  ed the country to witness the birth of his love child in Switzerland; suddenly struck with the unbearable weight 
of personal accountability, he had 
ﬂ  ed Russia to ﬁ  ght in Ukraine him-self — evidence proving that this was not the case has yet to emerge.
Where many of these explana-
tions falter, and what they fail to account for, is Putin’s status as a certiﬁ  ed G. A much more succinct and accurate explanation of his 
behavior can be found in the 1988 
classic, “Straight Outta Compton,” speciﬁ  cally in Eazy-E’s verse. Before his untimely passing, Eazy, “The Godfather of Gangsta Rap,” would speak at length about his criminal behavior:
“See I don’t give 
a f***, that’s the problem/I see a moth-
erf****** cop, I don’t 
dodge him/But I’m smart, lay low, creep a while/And when I see a punk pass, I smile…/
Looking for the one they call Eazy/But here’s a ﬂ  ash, they never seize me/Ruthless/Never seen like a shadow in the dark/Except when I 
unload.” Replace “cop” with “West-
ern capitalist pig” and “Eazy” with “Putin,” and you would be hard-pressed to argue that Putin hadn’t written this himself.
Putin’s brief sabbatical following 
Nemtsov’s murder is yet another in a long line of instances where Pu-tin’s actions have put the boasts of 
rappers to shame. Putin has taken 
the cornerstone concepts of gangsta rap, such as territory, having a crew and ﬂ  exing in front of your enemies and rendered them on a global scale hitherto unseen. It is no wonder then that other international powers have referred to Russia as a “maﬁ  a state.” As reported by BBC in 2010, Wikileaks distributed a diplomatic 
cable between Spanish prosecutor 
Jose “Pepe” Grinda Gonzalez and the U.S., where Gonzalez alleged that “one cannot differentiate be-tween the activities of the Govern-ment and OC (organized crime) groups” in Russia. Even the hardest of the hard, such as Raekwon the Chef or Gucci Mane, would ﬁ  nd it 
difﬁ  cult to top having an entire geo-
political landmass in your pocket.
One of the core tenets of hip-hop 
is the notion of “realness”— the idea that your words ought to reﬂ  ect your experiences. I would like to propose that Putin ditch this soft au-thoritarian business and ascend to his true calling: that of an emcee. If 
the last few months have shown us 
anything, it’s that Putin is as real as they come. The man sends Russian bomber jets to ﬂ  y over the U.K. just to prove that he can — Tupac only dreamed of the day that he would send military-grade weaponry to level Biggie’s New York residence.
Given the increasing popularity 
of foreign hip-hop artists in America 
(read: Assassin, Skepta, Riz MC), I 
have no doubts about Putin’s capac-ity for crossover appeal. Additional-ly, I’m not the only person who has seen Putin’s pop potential — Rus-sian rap group A.M.G. notched a hit in 2014 with its Migos-style song “Go Hard Like Vladimir Putin”.
Putin needs to strike while the 
iron is hot — with the conﬂ  ict in Ukraine reaching a fever pitch and more international attention than ever, a Beyoncé-esque surprise iTunes release would generate a me-dia shitstorm the likes of which have never been seen. But then again, Pu-tin has never been too fond of jour-nalists. A hypothetical mixtape by 
Vladimir Putin gets a 10 out of 10, 
would listen to again and again.
Zach Schlein is a UF political 
science junior. His column appears on Fridays.
The world eagerly waits for Vladimir Putin to spit that ﬁ  reColumn
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org
8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
I’M YELLING
TINDER
13OUT 
OF
with someone 
they met on 
these sites.online daters have 
never actually gone 
date on a
Online dating has lost much of its stigma. A majority 
of Americans now say online dating is a good way to 
meet people, when that hasn’t always been the case.
of Americans 
who are in a 
marriage or 
committed 
relationship 
say they met their 
significant other online.5%online daters 
have asked someone else to help them with their profile.
One-in-five
adults ages 
25-34 years old 
have used online 
dating, but it’s 
also popular 
with older 
singles, too.1
5in
information by Pew Research CenterLIFESTYLE
ANGELA DUNN
Alligator Contributing Writer    
UF students may be lucky in 
finding love online.
The university was ranked No. 
11 in the Top 25 Colleges for On-
line Dating in 2015, according to 
The Grade, an online dating appli-
cation, in its inaugural list.
The top 25 colleges with the 
most app users were analyzed to find which school had the highest-quality online dating pool, said account supervisor Kayla Inserra. The data was divided into catego-ries such as “like” rate, message quality, response rate and late-night swiping.
Cliff Lerner, founder and CEO 
of The Grade, wrote in an email that an algorithm computes a score based on a user’s profile content, quality of messages and response rate. A school’s grade reflects the average score of its students.              
UF received an overall grade of 
A- , and 31 percent of these single Gators have a grade of A- or high-er, according to the rankings.
“Not only is the University of 
Florida the state’s hardest public university to get into, but it may also be the hardest school to get a date in. … Are they playing hard-
to-get or just plain picky?” the 
website wrote.
Sarah Brown, 20, met her boy-
friend in October on OKCupid. However, she had reservations about online and social media dating at first.
“Some guys — and I’m sure 
girls do the same thing — but 
they Internet creep with online 
dating,” the UF public relations sophomore said.
Lerner said The Grade is work-
ing to improve the online dating experience by holding users ac-countable for their behavior.
“Although we didn’t cater to-
ward college singles specifically,” 
he said, “we’re not surprised that 
college singles seem to be embrac-ing the concept of accountabil-ity as college-aged singles are the biggest offenders in contributing to bad experiences online.”
Brown said she thinks online 
and mobile-dating apps have be-come popular among students for 
the convenience and options not 
always found in a bar or club.
Her boyfriend lives outside 
of Gainesville, and she said they wouldn’t have met without online dating.
“Not to mention, it’s nice to 
refine your search to what prefer-ences you want in a person,” she 
said.You may be single, 
but do you have The 
Grade to mingle?
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffWatch Your Six
Nick Deering, a UF junior, sneaks up on Erich Zellmer, 
a UF sophomore, at the Interbranch Battle on Thurs-day. The laser-tag event was co-sponsored by Student Government Senate and the Veterans Affairs Cabinet. 
MICHELLE NEELEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art 
is changing up the rules this weekend 
and encouraging the community to touch the artwork.
Visitors can experience Access Art, 
a special installation for members of the community who are blind or visu-ally impaired to experience art, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Saturday.
“We pride ourselves in being acces-
sible to visitors,” said Tami Wroath, the Harn’s director of marketing and public relations. “This is a great opportunity to connect with the visually impaired.”
The event will include a touchable 
installation in the museum’s audito-rium and guided tours incorporat-ing the tactile diagrams and verbal descriptions of the museum’s “High-lights from the Modern Collection” and “Monet and American Impressionism” exhibits. The guided tours require reg-istration at harn.ufl.edu/accessart or by phone.
Artists in the community will dis-
play and talk about their art in the au-ditorium.“The submissions for the touchable 
art exhibition are fantastic,” said Kim Crowell, who helped curate the art-work that will be displayed. “There is one in particular where the artist cre-ated touchable paintings of existing works in the Harn’s collection.”
Crowell, 27, a Harn intern and first-
year UF museum studies graduate student, was involved in planning the event as well as creating the tactile dia-grams of art displayed in the museum.
She said the diagrams are like touch-
able maps of works of art. Different tex-tures on the diagram represent differ-ent areas within a painting or sculpture.
Another Harn intern, Kelly Sim-
mons, wrote detailed verbal descrip-tions of six pieces of art on display at the museum. She said she had to look at the pieces for a long time to accurately describe what she saw.
The Gainesville chapter of the Na-
tional Federation of the Blind held fo-cus groups to make sure the tour ma-terials, like the tactile diagrams and verbal descriptions, would work well for the community.
In the past, the Harn initiated other 
programs for the blind, such as a pro-gram called Mindsight that happened six times between 1999 and 2013, Wroath said. 
Access Art will be the first event 
that combines touchable art, tactile dia-grams and verbal descriptions.
Wroath said she hopes the event will 
become annual.
Saturday will also be the first day 
a cell phone-guided tour will be made available for the “Monet and American Impressionism” exhibit, Wroath said. This is another way the blind commu-nity can continue to enjoy the exhibit beyond Saturday’s event.
“I’m really excited for everything to 
come together and for people to be able to come to the Harn and experience it in a unique way,” Simmons said.
Harn to host event for visually impaired
“The submissions for the 
touchable art exhibition are 
fantastic. There is one in 
particular where the artist 
created touchable paintings 
of existing works in the Harn’s 
collection.”
Kim Crowell
Harn intern“Although we didn’t 
cater toward college 
singles specifically, 
we’re not surprised that 
college singles seem to be 
embracing the concept of 
accountability as college-
aged singles are the biggest 
offenders in contributing to 
bad experiences online.”
Cliff Lerner
Founder and CEO of The Grade
Amy Weiss/Alligator StaffFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Gainesville Throwbacks
March 19, 1974
Tom Clark, a former U.S. attorney gen-
eral and Supreme Court justice, stopped by 
UF’s law school, where students asked him 
about his stance on medical marijuana. Clark said he’s been offered a “What do you call it? Joint?” several times but politely refused. “I 
don’t frown upon it, I just don’t use it,” he 
said. He also expressed concern about the number of felons who are reconvicted, which he calls “graduate schools of crime.”
March 16, 1983UF students dressed as Playboy bunnies 
walked around campus to promote Playboy Club West as a part of residence hall week. 
They offered tuck-in services for $1, and the 
bunnies were told to “Get the buck before the tuck.” Steve Dykhuizen said he missed his mother’s goodnight kisses, so a bunny kissed him for an extra $2.
March 16, 1992Jeremy Foley replaced Bill Arnsparger, 
who resigned in January of that year to be-
come the defensive coordinator of the San Di-
ego Chargers. “This is certainly a goal I’ve set for myself for a long, long time,” Foley said. “I’m a Gator fan, and I’ve had other opportu-nities to interview for this position elsewhere. 
But I didn’t want to be an (athletic director) 
just anywhere just to be an (athletic director). I wanted to do it here at UF.”
March 19, 2003UF administrators prepared for the worst 
as the nation was on the brink of war. Because of the variables and circumstances surround-ing the Iraq war, the university was not able to 
develop a single plan to encompass everyone at UF. Instead, they gave guidelines on how 
to react, such as who to call in certain situ-ations. “The key to preparing is planning to get the ideas together so you can be ready for 
any type of incident, whether it be a natural 
disaster or war,” said Michael Rollo, interim vice president for Student Affairs at the time.
— MELISSA MIHM
NATION
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
BROWNSVILLE, Texas — A 
federal judge who has blocked 
President Barack Obama’s immi-gration executive action suggest-ed Thursday that he could order 
sanctions against the Justice De-
partment if he rules it misled him about when exactly the adminis-tration began implementing one of the measures.
During a sometimes testy 
court hearing, U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen went back and forth with the Justice Department 
over whether it had misled him 
into believing that a key part of Obama’s program would not be implemented before he made a ruling on a request for a prelimi-nary injunction. In fact, federal of-ﬁ  cials had given more than 108,000 people three-year reprieves from deportation before that date and 
granted them work permits under 
a program that protects young im-migrants from deportation if they were brought to the U.S. illegally as children.
Obama’s executive actions 
would spare from deportation as many as 5 million people who are in the U.S. illegally. Many Repub-
licans oppose the actions, saying 
only Congress has the right to take such sweeping action. Twenty-six states led by Texas joined together to challenge them as unconstitu-tional. On Feb. 16, Hanen sided with the states, issuing a prelimi-nary injunction blocking Obama’s actions.
Hanen chided Justice Depart-
ment attorney Kathleen Hartnett on Thursday for telling him at a January hearing before the in-junction was issued that nothing would be happening with regard 
to one key part of Obama’s actions, 
an expansion of the 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, until Feb. 18.
“Like an idiot I believed that,” 
Hanen said.
A ﬂ  ustered Hartnett repeatedly 
apologized to Hanen for any con-
fusion related to how the reprieves 
and work permits were granted.
“We strive to be as candid as 
possible. It truly became clear to us there was confusion on this point,” she said.
Hartnett continued to insist 
that the 108,081 reprieves had been granted under 2012 guidelines, 
which were not stopped by the in-
junction, and that government at-torneys hadn’t properly explained this because they had been focused on other parts of the proposed ac-tion.
But Hanen pointed out that the 
2012 guidelines only granted two-year reprieves and that three-year 
reprieves are being proposed un-
der the program now on hold.
The states asked that Hanen 
consider issuing sanctions because Justice Department attorneys had made “representations (that) proved not to be true or at a mini-mum less than forthcoming,” said Angela Colmenero, a lawyer with 
the Texas Attorney General’s Of-
ﬁ  ce, the lead attorney for the states.
Colmenero said the three-year 
reprieves that were granted might have caused the states economic harm as the states may have al-ready issued various beneﬁ  ts, including driver’s licenses, to im-migrants who received a reprieve.Sanctions possible in 
immigration case
Nick West / Alligator
In this ﬁ  le photo from March 19, 2003, 
Bob Tomashvski stands on Archer Road  to protest war against Iraq. He was among a dozen Gainesville residents who rallied op-posed to military action.
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  
Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   
3-20-15-17-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from campus. Nice house. Hardwood floors, cen-tral heat/air, W/D provided. 1105 NW 10th Ave. $1550/mo, call/text 352-339-2342. pic-tures at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-24-15-5-2
CUSTOM 2BDRM 1BA AVAIL NOW Within 1 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest cntrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $685/mo. Call 727-423-9463    3-20-15-2-2
Charming 2 bed 1 bath housewith large fenced yard, screen porch,washer/dryer hookup,dog with deposit,1123 nw 31st avenue, lease,$800475 1586 or/213 1963 leave message   3-25-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $375/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    3-25-15-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
PUBLIC AUCTIONFred McGilvray, Inc.3 Auctions scheduled!03/25 ? 11am & 04/07 ? 10:30am at 8690 NW 58 St, Doral, Fl 3316604/14 ? 10am at 1421 Oglethorpe Rd, Palm Beach, Fl 33480Lg. Qty. of Vehicles, trailers, plumbing sup-plies, fire & sprinkler equipment/supplies, engineering/construction equipment, Lg. Qty. of power tools/hand tools, press breaks, welding equipment, torch equipment, fork-lifts, 20’ & 44’ containers, warehouse items, scrap metal/brass/copper, acetylene tanks & much more!15%-18%BP Live/OnlineAssignment Case #2015-004902-CAwww.moeckerauctions.com /(800) 840-BIDSAB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin    3-20-1-10
Live Simulcast Bankruptcy Auction Case 
13-10157, Hayes Iron & Metal, Inc. Office 
Bldg., Metal Frame Bldgs, Workshop, Shop 
Equip., Tools, Office Furnishings & Equip., 
Providence, NC. 3/26/15 at 10am. Auction at 
The Institute Conference Center Barkhouser 
Auditorium, Danville, VA. 800-997-2248, 
NCAL3936/V AAL580. www .ironhorseauc -
tion.com    3-20-1-10HIGH CASH PRODUCING
Vending Machines.75 Vend = .65 ProfitAll on Location in FloridaSelling due to illnessCall 1-866-668-6629 for Details    3-20-1-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 4-3-14-73-13 
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledg-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    3-20-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    3-20-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    3-20-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
The Towering Harvard HandSign Language Assistant
352-375-8606                         3-23-5-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    3-20-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-4006    3-20-1-15
DISH TV Packages for $19.99/mo & $14.95/mo for Internet + $25 Visa Gift Card (with activation). Call NOW and Save: 844-560-2654. Conditions apply.    3-20-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    3-20-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Connect instantly with sexy local singles! No paid operators, just real people like you. Try it FREE. 18+ Only. Call now: 1-800-931-6473    3-20-1-19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Gators earn pair of All-America honors on Day 1 at NCAA 
Swimming and Diving Championships
Khalia Warner (1-meter dive) and Jessica Theilmann (500-yard freestyle) led Florida on after the first day of the three-day meet. UF is in 15th place.Mike Holloway and the UF track and field teams begin their outdoor season Saturday. Read the story on page 14. Orange & Blue Debut start time announced
The Florida football team’s annual Spring game will take place at 12:30 p.m. on April 11.GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
The regular season was nice.
No. 2 Florida tried to enjoy 
each week and make the most out 
of every opportunity each dual 
meet afforded.
But there is no denying the 
team has been looking forward 
to this point in the season all year 
long.
“They’re excited — their en-
ergy level today is through the roof,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
“They wanna get going now.”
The Gators begin their long-
awaited postseason Saturday 
when they head to Duluth, Geor-
gia, for the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championships. 
Florida is the top seed and will 
compete in the second session at 6 p.m. with the likes of LSU, Au-
burn and defending SEC cham-
pion Alabama.
For the teams, this meet is the 
first chance to see how they stack 
up against their competitors, 
many of whom will be competing again in the NCAA Champion-
ships in a few weeks, on an even 
playing field.
Florida lost to both Alabama 
and LSU in road meets during the regular season but will now get 
to truly measure how it stands 
against the two juggernauts.
“It’s always a little unfair when you go to dual meets,” 
junior Bridgette Caquatto said. 
“That’s just how it rolls. Home team advantage is always a thing.“I think it’s going to be great 
to be able to get an even playing ground. This is what we’ve been waiting for all season because we 
think we’re one of the best teams 
out there.”
But for Caquatto, this meet is special in its own right.
“SECs, personally for me, is 
one of my favorite meets to go to,” she said. “I think it’s the 
most fun and I think it’s even bet-
ter than NCAAs.”
One of the biggest reasons 
why, Caquatto said, is the atmo-sphere. All the top SEC rivals get 
to compete in the same place on 
the same day in front of all their fans, creating a unique environ-ment.
“The energy is insane,” she 
said.
As a young girl, freshman 
Kennedy Baker was able to wit-ness the atmosphere in person, 
and it has stuck with her to this 
day. Now, she gets her first crack at being a participant this week-end.
“My first college gymnastics 
meet I ever went to was SECs, and Florida won,” Baker said. “I was like nine and it was crazy. 
“That’s when I knew I wanted 
to be a Gator, so me finally being able to compete at SECs is gonna be incredible. This is the meet I’ve been looking forward to my 
whole life.”
She and her teammates hope 
they can have a similar outcome 
this time around.
“I’ve always had great mem-
ories of SECs,” Caquatto said, “and I’m excited to make more.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF junior Bridgette Caquatto performs her floor exercise routine during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against 
Georgia on Jan. 30 in the O’Connell Center. The Gators compete in the SEC Championships on Saturday.
UF gymnasts motivated, ready for SEC Championships
The meet is Saturday in Georgia
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
Alabama and Florida has become 
one of the biggest rivalries in softball over the past few years.
The two teams have played each oth-
er 11 times the past three seasons with Florida winning six of those contests.
And this weekend, the rivalry will be 
renewed when the No. 3 Gators (28-2, 
1-2 Southeastern Conference) trav-el to Tuscaloosa, Alabama, to face 
the No. 5 Crimson Tide (21-5, 5-1 SEC).    
Alabama is going to be motivated 
and will be looking for some revenge after the way last season ended.
Florida swept the Crimson Tide in 
the Women’s College World Series, 
outscoring them 11-3 in two games to 
clinch UF’s first national championship 
in program history.
Coach Tim Walton knows how 
much emotion goes into playing each game against Alabama.
“There’s always a lot of intensity 
that goes into it,” Walton said. “They’ve 
done a good job, they’ve got a great 
program. We’ve got a great program. 
We have players that were recruited by 
both programs.”
Florida’s pitching might be key dur-Gators hit the road for series 
against the Crimson Tide  FLORIDA STARTS A THREE-GAME 
SERIES AGAINST OLE MISS TONIGHT.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Since taking over the Florida baseball pro-
gram, coach Kevin O’Sullivan has not seen a 
player on his roster end the season with a bat-ting average above .400.
Matt LaPorta was the last UF player to 
accomplish that feat, posting a .402 clip in 2007 — the year before O’Sullivan’s reign in Gainesville began. 
But 22 games into the season, Harrison 
Bader has the potential to be the first to break the barrier under O’Sullivan.
Bader currently holds a team-best .419 bat-
ting average, which is good for seventh in the Southeastern Conference and 44th nationally.
The junior outfielder, who is riding an 11-game hit streak and a 13-game on-base 
streak, also leads the Gators in slugging 
percentage (.903), on-base percentage (.548), 
RBIs (27), walks (17) and home runs (seven).
Bader has his next chance to continue his 
early-season success tonight at 7:30 when No. 2 Florida (19-3, 2-1 SEC) travels to Ox-
ford, Mississippi, to start a three-game series against Ole Miss (11-9, 1-2 SEC).
The Gators are coming 
off a 14-8 victory against 
Florida State on Tuesday to give UF its 14th win in 16 games.
UF hit .410 as a team 
against FSU and didn’t 
commit an error in the nearly four-hour game that went back-and-forth until the seventh inning when freshman JJ Schwarz belted a Junior outfielder off to fast 
start for Florida baseball
Bader
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15UF Sof tball
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 1514, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator writer @KBrut13       
Six days ago, the Florida men’s and 
women’s track and field teams were the 
No. 1 and No. 2 teams in the nation.
It was also six days ago that coach 
Mike Holloway’s men’s squad was in 
a 50-point deadlock with then-No. 2 Or-egon for the national title with only two 
events remaining.
Oregon broke the tie wide open with 
a combined 24 points by its runners in the 3000-meter event — leading to the Gators’ demise and a runner-up finish.
Now, Florida is putting all of that be-
hind — as a new outdoor season is set to begin. Every athlete in the nation is start-ing on a fresh slate. Even the ones who accomplished some of the greatest feats of the season are starting over, and are now even with the rest of the field that the NCAA has to offer.
While the indoor season closed on a 
bittersweet note, Marquis Dendy said the outdoor season is where the Gators tend to shine.
“(The outdoor season) is our true 
kind of season. The Gators love to go outside and put on a show,” Dendy said. “Indoor is just a warm-up, so we kinda come outside saying ‘Now it’s time to turn it up.’”
Florida begins its outdoor season on 
Saturday at the UCF Black and Gold Challenge in Orlando. The Gators will feature a trio of women throwers this 
weekend in senior Jayla Bostic and fresh-
men Lloydricia Cameron and Jontavia Dykes. 
All three will compete in the hammer 
throw, while the duo of Cameron and Dykes will take part in the discus toss. Cameron will be the lone Gator in the shot put.UF track and field opens 
outdoor season SaturdayMEN’S GOLF
RYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer @RyanSummers18
There are no days off as a golfer.
Everything that happens away from the 
course can either benefit or derail a perfor-mance over the weekend.
The Florida men’s golf team travels to 
Statesboro, Georgia, to compete in the Chris Schenkel Invitational, in what will be its third tournament in as many weeks.
Last season, the Gators finished 13th of 15 
teams in this tournament and were led by then-junior Eric Banks, who finished 1-over-par.
Banks is in the lineup again, along with 
senior J.D. Tomlinson, junior A.J. Crouch and sophomore Ryan Orr who all have experience 
at this tournament.
Freshman Ryan Celano will fill out the 
lineup for the Gators and redshirt sophomore 
Conor Richardson will make the trip and play this weekend as an individual.
With a mix of experience and new blood 
heading to Georgia, the Gators hope to im-prove upon their seventh-place finish last week in Tallahassee but haven’t had much time to practice on their home course.
Coach JC Deacon said he believes the team 
had only been able to practice at home four out of the last 16 days.
Florida’s lineup consists of four of the five 
golfers that brought in a fourth-place finish at 
the SunTrust Gator Invitational and was led by 
Tomlinson’s share of a runner-up position.
Crouch won the FGCU 
Classic in October, and Tomlinson has finished the last three tournaments in the top-ten.
“I think I’m hitting the 
ball really well and I feel like 
if I putt well I have a chance 
to win each tournament,” Crouch said. “There’s a 
course we’re playing… I know at Georgia Southern’s tournament if I just putt well the course sets up perfectly for me. Putting is the key.”
Deacon said he is solely worried about the 
athletes taking care of the details off the course 
to improve their game — an area he feels his 
team has been lacking in recent weeks.Gators head to Georgia for 
Chris Schenkel Invitational
Crouch
UF Trackthree-run home run to the left-field 
bleachers to give the Gators a 14-7 lead.
“It was a long game,” Bader 
said. “There were a lot of posi-tives.”
But while Florida saw strides 
from those two aspects of the game, O’Sullivan wants to see im-provement from his pitchers as the season progresses.
The Gators used seven pitchers 
against the Seminoles, with none of them lasting longer than 2.2 in-nings.
UF’s first two pitchers — starter Eric Hanhold and freshman Alex Faedo — were the biggest victims on the mound Tuesday, giving up seven runs (five earned) and eight hits in 4.1 innings of work.
“We’ve got to find the right 
roles for our pitchers,” O’Sullivan said. “We’ve got to do a better job pitching ahead in the count. It was a little surprising, to be honest with you, how poorly we pitched (Tues-day).”
Series Notes: Florida leads the 
overall series against Ole Miss 48-45, including an 8-7 mark under O’Sullivan. … Logan Shore (3-1, 1.78 ERA) will start on Friday for Florida.FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
 After a perfect weekend at Ring 
Tennis Complex against Mississip-
pi State and Alabama, the Florida men’s tennis team hits the road for its next three matches.
First stop, Arkansas.In UF’s 2013-2014 season, the 
team dropped its match against Arkansas 3-4 but returning player Elliott Orkin is confident that last year’s match will have little to do with the teams performance on Friday.
“It’s completely a different team 
on our side and on their side,” Or-kin said, “but we’re definitely look-ing to get revenge from last year.”
Orkin and his doubles partner 
Maxx Lipman lead the team in conference doubles action with a 3-1 record.
The No. 15 Gators (8-5, 3-2 
Southeastern Conference) have 
clinched the doubles point in their 
last two matches and are 6-1 when winning the early tally.
The Razorbacks (11-7, 1-3 SEC) 
return just one player from its 2013-2014 season, but the Gators were able to get a glimpse of Ar-kansas players in the SEC Fall Clas-sic that UF hosted earlier this year.
“We got to see how most of 
those guys play,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “So, we have some ideas on styles, strengths, weak-nesses, but obviously things can change over four, five-month pe-
riod. We’ll go in with a solid game 
plan and be well prepared and so much of it is what we do our side of the net.”
Shelton takes most of the heat 
from last year’s performance, ad-mitting that he doesn’t feel that he prepared the team well enough in last season’s matchup with the Ra-
zorbacks. 
But the third-year coach isn’t 
going to let the same mistake hap-pen twice.
“This year I feel totally differ-
ent,” Shelton said. “I also think 
when you have a loss somewhere it can propel you forward and last year when we lost there it kinda hit the ignition switch for us right af-terward.”
Florida doesn’t plan on losing 
this upcoming weekend.
“I feel they certainly have our 
respect and we’ve got to go in there and play really good tennis to be successful and I think we’re ready to do that,” Shelton said.
Shelton isn’t the only one confi-
dent that the team will be prepared for the weekend matchups.Orkin said that if the team 
brings confidence and play well, 
they will have no problem com-
ing out of the traveling weekend happy.
“I can speak for out team and 
know that lines one through three in doubles and lines one through six in singles will bring the en-
ergy,” Orkin said. “We’re a gritty 
team and we’re going to compete in every single line. We can’t guar-antee a win but we’re going to do everything possible to get it.”
Florida looks to continue win streak against Arkansas
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Elliott Orkin prepares to serve during Florida’s 4-1 win against Mississippi State on Friday at the Ring Tennis 
Complex. The Gators are on a two-game win streak heading into tonight’s match against Arkansas.
ENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer @eneisyr29
The Florida Gators women’s tennis team 
(13-1, 5-0 Southeastern Conference) is back in action this weekend when it hosts No. 17 Ole Miss tonight at 5 and Mississippi State Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Alfred A. Ring Ten-nis Complex.
The young squad is entering the contest 
with an eight-match win streak and is unde-feated in SEC play. The Gators secured two wins at last weekend’s road matchups.Florida shut out both the Arkansas Ra-
zorbacks and the Missouri Tigers this past weekend on the road, defeating both 7-0, respectively.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said he thinks 
the team is learning to play as a team even though everyone is focused on their own in-dividual match. He believes the team relied on their strengths in these last two contests.
“I’m super excited where we are, what 
we have done so far up to this point. It’s all for nothing, if we can’t finish off strong. This is a brutal stretch coming up,” Thornqvist said.
In the last meeting between the Gators 
and Rebels, Florida won the match 4-2. Then-junior Brianna Morgan clinched the victory for UF.
Ole Miss (11-4, 3-3 SEC) is entering the 
match after defeating Auburn 4-3 on Sun-day.
Florida hits the road Tuesday to face off 
with Texas A&M at 3 p.m. at College Sta-tion, Texas. The match was originally sched-uled for March 8, but was rescheduled due to bad weather.
Thornqvist is looking forward to the 
strengths and ability of all his players, no matter their position.
“We can count on all eight to get the job 
done,” Thornqvist said. “It’s important to when you are trying to win a Championship that you just don’t rely on the same points all the time. You can get a point from all of the positions. I think that is really impor-tant.” 
Women’s tennis team hosts Ole Miss, looks to stay perfect in SEC
BASEBALL , from page 13The Gators lead the 
all-time series 48-45“We’ve got to go in there 
and play really good tennis 
to be successful”
Bryan Shelton
UF men’s tennis Coach
UF plans to use all of its pitchers
ing the three game series against Alabama. 
The Gators pitching staff was left licking its 
wounds after the LSU series, which saw them give 
up 27 runs, 19 earned, in three games.
As a staff, UF leads the SEC with 257 strikeouts. 
Alabama on the other hand, strikes out the least amount of times at the plate, as they’ve only been punched out a total of 77 times in 26 games.
Walton said he won’t hesitate to use his three-
arm rotation this weekend after they struggled against LSU.
“All three are going to pitch this weekend. 
They’re going to have to do it,” Walton said. “Whether we decide to go with Aleshia (Ocasio) and Lauren (Haeger) and have Delanie (Gourley) come out of the pen, and see if that doesn’t help her get her confidence where she needs to be.”
Florida’s staff will have to deal with the duo of 
Demi Turner and Haylie McCleney. Both Turner and McCleney lead Alabama in hitting and rank in the top seven in the SEC in batting average, hit-ting .488 and .481, respectively.For UF, Kirsti Merritt is no stranger to the rival-
ry as she’s been a staple in Florida’s lineup against Alabama her previous two seasons.
The Lake Panasoffkee native has played seven 
games in her career against the Crimson Tide and has two home runs, 10 RBIs and four stolen bases.  
One of the two home runs for Merritt was a 
three-run home run in game two of the WCWS in a 6-3 win to help Florida clinch its first national title.    
Merritt specifically remembers her second con-
test against Alabama in which she went 3-for-4 with a home run, five RBIs and two stolen bases.
Florida will need her to come up with a couple 
of solid games in the series as the three game set gets underway on Saturday.
“Anytime that we play Alabama there’s a little 
bit more ‘oomph’ in the game because it’s just a really good rivalry between us two,” Merritt said. “We always have really good games when we play each other. I remember my freshman year, that’s probably the favorite game I’ve ever played in, so it’ll be a good weekend.”SOFTBALL , from page 13The Razorbacks won last year 4-316, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015
NCAA
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
JACKSONVILLE — Georgia 
State guard R.J. Hunter brought the 
ball up the court and passed it to for-ward T.J. Shipes. 
The clock ticked down. 
Seven. Six. Five. Four.
Shipes has one thing going 
through his mind as the chance for an exclamation point on a whirl-wind comeback nears.
“Get it back to R.J., just get it back 
to R.J.,” Shipes said. “As soon as he passed it he said ‘T.J., T.J., T.J.,’ and I just threw it to him.”
So that’s what he did. He quickly popped it out to his 
teammate who uncorked a shot from St. Augustine to lift Georgia State over Baylor 57-56, a shot that will insert into him into college bas-
ketball lore with the likes of Bryce 
Drew, brother of Baylor coach Scott Drew.
In 1998, Bryce’s Valparaiso team 
was a 14 seed that upset No. 3 seed-ed Ole Miss. 
Hunter’s 30-foot three pointer 
with 2.7 seconds left on the clock lift-ed the No. 14 seeded Panthers over 
Scott’s No. 3 seeded Baylor Bears. 
The family connection is deeply 
intertwined in what happened in 
this year’s NCAA second round, and Hunter will be able to see his 
play on the famous montage at tour-
nament’s end.
“I hugged my sister and said 
‘We’re going to be in One Shin-ing Moment’ because we always watched that as a family,” Hunter said. “That’s what we watch when your dad is a coach. It’s unbeliev-able, man. It’s a little surreal right 
now. It’s a little hard to digest and 
God looked out for me today.”
R.J.’s dad, coach Ron Hunter, 
has his leg in a cast after tearing his Achilles tendon celebrating with his team after winning the Sun Belt tournament last weekend, punching their ticket to the big dance in the process. 
Ron’s scooter has reached that 
of urban legend status and in the locker room after the game, he sat with his leg propped up on it trium-phantly. The only thing missing was a celebratory victory cigar. 
He joked with a reporter that 
there is a bet to be atoned for — Hunter’s owed a pedicure for the 
toes that protrude from the bottom 
of the cast thanks to his son’s hero-ics.
He coached the game from a 
stool, and as R.J. jacked up the game winner, his enthusiasm was so great he fell to the floor, causing his son to joke that they’ll need to get him a 
chair with a back on it for Saturday’s 
third-round matchup.“First of all, it was a great game, 
but I’m not going to be a coach, I’m going to be dad right now,” Hunter beamed. “Proud as hell of this guy. This is my son. Proud of him, so I wanted to say that.”
Georgia State upsets Baylor on last-second three-pointer
AP Photo
Georgia State players celebrate as they surround R.J. Hunter, center, after he made the game-winning 
shot against Baylor on Thursday in Jacksonville. 
 THE REBELS’ STEFAN MOODY WENT 5-OF-18 FROM THE FIELD. 
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
JACKSONVILLE — It’s both the cruelty 
and the brilliance of March Madness but in 48 
hours, everything can change.
Two days ago, the No. 11 seed Ole Miss Rebels were on top of the college basketball world after coming back from 17 points down to beat the BYU Cougars in a First Four contest that will go down as one of the best games of this year’s NCAA tournament. 
Fast forward just a little while later and the 
March magic had run out as the Rebels fell 76-57 to sixth-seeded Xavier (21-13)
“It wasn’t out of reach, we just had to fight, 
and we didn’t come with that fight today,” Rebels forward M.J. Rhett said. “We just didn’t come prepared today, none of us. It wasn’t -- like, my awareness, I shouldn’t have got two fouls early in the first half. It affected the team, and we just didn’t bring it today.”
With former sharpshooter Marshall Hen-
derson in attendance, the Rebels (21-12) had a decidedly un-Henderson like performance shooting from its backcourt. Their best shoot-
er, guard Stefan Moody, finished with 14 
points but went 5-of-18 from the field and 2-of-9 from three-point range. Fellow guard Jarvis Summers went 0-of-8 from the field including 0-of-4 from three-point range.
“Obviously the end comes to most every 
team at this time of year. Really proud of our group for getting to the NCAA Tournament, for advancing to the NCAA Tournament,” Ole Miss coach Andy Kennedy said.
 “We certainly did not play well today. All 
credit goes to Xavier. They had complete con-trol of the tempo from the start, and we were never able to wrestle it away from them.”
Xavier handles Ole Miss to advance in NCAA Tournament 