VOLUME 109 ISSUE 104 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Multiple trafﬁ  c accidents most likely caused by rain
There were 21 crashes in Alachua County, pg 5.  
Engineers’ Week highlights opportunities for students
The next event is the Leadership Forum today, pg 8. Gators ready for tough, fun SEC ﬁ  nish
The UF women’s basketball team has four 
games left this season, pg. 16.
Mike Rivera was 
one of three freshmen 
on the UF baseball 
team to start all 
three games last 
weekend. Read the 
story on page 13.
61/30
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Cresoniah Hsieh / Alligator
Live at the Reitz
Justin McKenzie, the 25-year-old lead male singer, sings with local band The Sa-vants of Soul in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday night. 
 ABOUT 500 STUDENTS ATTENDED.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The one and only two-sided Student Government debate 
brought cheers, snaps and hollers from students Tuesday night.
The debate, hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council, 
brought in about 500 students. The executive candidates for the Access and Swamp Parties answered 10 questions.
The crowd grumbled when Kerrie Montgomery, associate 
director for Student Activities and Involvement, said only two 
questions would be used from the audience using #UFDecides.
Access Party’s executive candidates are Joselin Padron-Ra-
sines for Student Body president, Kevin Doan for vice presi-dent and Nicholas Carre for treasurer.
The executive candidates for Swamp Party are Joseph Mi-
chaels for Student Body president, Tia Smart for vice president and Hadar Arazi for treasurer.
Michaels said Swamp Party has a platform with attainable 
goals and will work to improve the lives of students.
Padron-Rasines said Access Party aims to make SG more 
accountable, affordable and accessible to students.
When Padron-Rasines said her party wanted to add gen-
der-neutral bathrooms around campus and bring more gender minority speakers to Accent, the crowd erupted in cheers.SG debate highlights party platforms, draws crowd
OLIVIA VEGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sex toy injuries have reached their 
climax.
Since 2007, the number of Ameri-
cans needing emergency medical care 
for sex toy-related injuries has roughly doubled, according to data from the Consumer Product Safety Commission. 
There was a spike in the number of 
injuries in 2012 and 2013, soon after the release of “Fifty Shades of Grey” in 2011.
Eighty-three percent of injuries re-
quire “foreign body removal,” accord-ing to the data. The ﬁ  gures come from the National Electronic Injury Surveil-lance System, which surveys hospital emergency room data.
Although some members of the 
BDSM community don’t think “Fif-ty Shades of Grey” accurately por-trays their community, the series has prompted more people to explore the 
lifestyle.
BDSM stands for Bondage and Dis-
cipline (BD), Dominance and Submis-
sion (DS), Sadism and Masochism (SM).
“More people are open to trying it, 
but without the knowledge to do it,” 
said Craig Lamb, a mental health coun-
selor and group leader of Gainesville’s BDSM community. “The book may ac-count for an overall attitude shift to-wards sexual liberation. There is a com-munity here in town for pretty much anything.”
According to the data, middle-aged 
men are the median sex toy injury vic-tims.
Although the rise in injuries didn’t 
surprise Lamb, the demographics of the victims did.
“This is stuff middle-aged men 
didn’t openly talk about,” he said. “It 50 shades of sex toy injuries 
as BDSM more mainstream 
SEE BDSM, PAGE 4SEE DEBATE, PAGE 4
SEE MALL, PAGE 4LOCAL
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Steve Carroll is the last man standing.
When the Oaks Mall Hallmark store 
closes at the end of the month, Chick-ﬁ  l-A will be the mall’s last independently owned store. Amid gaping department stores and budding boutiques, Carroll’s fried chicken heaven remains aﬂ  oat.
The beloved restaurant opened in Febru-
ary 1978 and was one of the mall’s original stores. It was the 78th store in a franchise chain of now more than 1,500 locations.
“I don’t really like it — I’ve just been 
here for 37 years,” Carroll said jokingly on Thursday.
Carroll has seen the mall grow from 
two to three to ﬁ  ve department stores. He’s moved his shop from one corner to another. He’s seen the “Chicken-que,” a barbeque chicken sandwich, and shoestring fries come and go off the menu. He’s watched employ-ees fall in love with one another and get Man stands tall in last locally 
owned store in Oaks MallNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 104 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
81/55CLOUDY
73/52CLOUDY
55/34SUNNY
46/27SUNNY
61/30SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and Roll” by the chairman of 
the Yale University Music 
Department. This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum, 
examines how the hokum 
blues of the late 1920s were the basis for popular musi-cal sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, 
the Women’s Student 
Association and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are excited to unveil our “Be a Game 
Changer” video contest. 
Help educate UF on how to intervene to end sexual violence. What better way 
to teach than by doing? So 
show us your best bystand-er scenarios in a public ser-vice announcement video format and you could win 
up to $550 in UF Bookstore 
gift cards. Deadline for submission is March 1. For official rules and eligibil-
ity, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.
edu/strive.
Facsimiles of Medieval 
Manuscripts on exhibit at 
Smathers Library Gallery
On view now through March 6 is the “Beast in the Book: Animals in 
Jewish, Christian, and 
Islamic Illustrations from the Middle Ages” exhibit. The exhibit encourages the viewer to reflect upon 
the ways in which the il-
lustrators combined high art and imagination along with didactic messages. The 
Smathers Library Gallery is 
located on the second floor of Smathers Library on campus. Hours are Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m., unless otherwise 
specified. Exhibition avail-able online at exhibits.uflib.ufl.edu/beasts.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college students, especially when 
struggling with a queer 
identity as a woman on top of work, classes and intern-ships. Finding opportuni-
ties to socialize with other 
queer women and release stress is rare. LGBT Affairs is offering a weekly discus-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Want to improve your writing 
skills while making new 
friends? Then come to the Creative Writing Club ev-ery Wednesday at 3 p.m. in 
Matherly Hall, Room 014. 
Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a member of the group and then discuss-
ing the story with the whole 
group with a focus on con-structive criticism. There are no requirements to join; just 
come and have fun with us.
GatorNights
Jay Gatsby cordially invites 
everyone to the Mardi Gras 
party of the century Friday 
from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. Swing dance the night away with live music 
from Gainesville Big Band, 
dress the part in flapper head-bands and learn your fortune from a palm reader, all while enjoying Mardi Gras food. 
Watch the blockbuster mov-
ie “Interstellar” in the Reitz Union Auditorium at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. It’s always free 
with a Gator 1 Card.
Disc Golf tournament
Register for the Disc Golf 
tournament, which will be 
played on the 18-hole disc golf 
course at Lake Wauburg’s South Shore this Saturday. The tournament will have 
two heats with 18 holes each. 
There are three divisions: Men’s Amateur, Women’s Amateur and Advanced. The top three participants in 
each division will receive a 
prize. There will also be two contests, Longest Drive and Closest to the Pin, during the 
event. The winners of each 
of these contests will also re-ceive a prize. To register, visit rsconnect.recsports.ufl.edu.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration is now open for Yes Means Yes, an in-terdisciplinary, interac-
tive, non-credit, five week, 
student-facilitated seminar that encourages meaning-ful, engaging discussions on consent and sexuality. Make 
your campus safer, have din-
ner on us and increase your sexual satisfaction! Meets 6:30 to 8 p.m. Thursday evenings 
from March 12 through April 
9. For more information and to register, go to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Feb. 26 with a multimedia pre-
sentation entitled “Tampa sion group that will connect 
you with other queer ladies 
in the area to chat, hang out 
and learn more about your-self and others. It is at 7:30 p.m. every Wednesday in Peabody Hall’s Rainbow 
Room.
Apply Now for 2015-16 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, complete the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. 
You can file a FAFSA as ear-ly as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA 
from the federal processor is 
March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure that the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the re-
sults of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. For more information or assis-tance with completing your 
FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or 
contact your financial aid ad-viser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Access advocated for online voting to increase 
voter turnout, while Swamp wanted to add more 
voting locations. Padron-Rasines said by using on-line voting, students who take online classes or are far from campus can still participate in SG.
Swamp, however, opposed online voting. Mi-
chaels said it isn’t always effective and can lead to voter fraud.
Access listed universities that have successfully 
implemented online voting, including Florida State University, Florida International University and Duke University.
Swamp contested the FSU mention. Michaels 
argued that online voting decreased the overall 
amount of votes. Alligator archives show FSU be-
gan online voting in 2008, but as of press time, the percentage effect on overall votes could not be inde-pendently determined.
Another controversial issue was the comfort of 
minority groups on campus. 
The UF SERU survey from 2013 showed that 50 
percent of black students and 67 percent of Asian students agreed or strongly agreed that students of their race/ethnicity were respected on campus. 
Padron-Rasines mentioned this statistic when 
she discussed how race was an issue that needed to be addressed on campus.
Michaels closed his statement with a promise 
that Swamp plans to help students and student or-ganizations of every background.
“As long as you’re qualiﬁ  ed, and as long as you 
can prove that you belong in the position you de-serve, that’s what matters,” he said.
Padron-Rasines ended the debate with a pas-
sionate speech denouncing Swamp’s past gover-nance.
“Swamp Party has shown us that they are out 
of touch,” she said. “On Feb. 24 and 25, let’s show them they’re out of time.”
Rosaura Yapur, 22, said she felt the debate was 
informative and powerful.
“I got a lot of insight to what both parties want-
ed to do,” the UF advertising senior said.
She said she usually doesn’t participate in elec-
tions because she felt her vote was pointless.
“I think things sound more promising, so I’ll 
deﬁ  nitely vote,” she said.married. He’s employed not one, 
but all four of his children — Le-
Nee, Audra, Whitley and Baylee. 
He’s covered one too many shifts, and he’s watched the clock tick by 
on one too many slow Tuesdays.
Carroll lives by the mantra 
written on a card hanging on his 
desk, “Bosses are only as good as their employees.”
Each day Joshua Acree walks 
into work, his “Good morning” is 
met with the same witty response.
“I noticed that!” replies Carroll, 
adding a “How in the world are 
ya?”
Acree, a Chick-ﬁ  l-A supervi-
sor, said Carroll sometimes drags 
out narratives just to get a point across.
“He’s a huge storyteller,” Acree 
said. But a few minutes of listen-
ing is a small price to pay for “the 
best boss (he’s) ever worked for.”Carroll, who declined to give 
his age, has been working since he 
was 12 years old. He’s been a gar-
dener. He’s toiled with retail. He’s 
washed cars and changed their oil. He worked at a copper mill. He 
was a minister of music.
Fried chicken, however, is what 
stuck. “I was raised in the South,” 
Carroll said.
Carroll started working at 
Chick-ﬁ  l-A as a regular employee 
when he was a student at Samford 
University in Birmingham, Ala-
bama.
He studied music education.
“If you heard me sing, you’ll 
know why I’m selling chicken,” Carroll said.
A self-proclaimed people per-
son, Carroll said he liked his Chick-ﬁ  l-A co-workers and customers so 
much that he began considering a 
future with the business.
Only two of the last 37 years 
have seen minor decreases in sales, and Carroll said the food chain has steadily grown over the years.
Acree said the mall location 
doesn’t get as much business as 
the one on Archer Road.
Carroll, dressed professionally 
with his brown hair neatly parted 
and a blue dress shirt tucked into 
slacks, waves to shoppers and oth-
er store employees as they walk 
by.
Three older women and two 
older men chatted at a table near-
by.
“We come here almost every 
morning,” Maurita McKee said. 
They know Steve, but its his 
store’s exceptional service that keeps them coming back.
They don’t even have to go up 
to the counter when their sweet tea 
runs out.
But as mall stores come and go, 
Carroll isn’t worried. He doesn’t 
plan on going anywhere.
“It’s been a fun ride,” he said, 
“and I’m going to go out with my boots on.”
was more of a trial and error, and 
sometimes error.”
Lamb said the best way to re-
ceive information on how to prop-erly use sexual toys is to check 
online and attend local demonstra-
tions and conversations.
Stores throughout Gainesville 
have noticed an increase in BDSM-
related toy sales after the series was 
released.
Justin Courts, assistant manager 
of X-Mart Adult Supercenter on 
Southwest 13th Street, said within the last two years, the store has seen 
a 30 percent overall proﬁ  t increase. 
He attributes most of the BDSM 
merchandise sales to the release of the books.
Courts also did not ﬁ  nd the data 
surprising. He said the more people 
use the toys, the more injuries will probably occur. 
Brandy Heinlein, owner of The 
Lingerie Company near The Oaks Mall, darted around her store Fri-day, picking up pieces of vibrant lingerie and making sure every-thing was in order.
Outside her store, the marquee 
read, “GET YOUR 50 SHADES ON,” and inside “Fetish and Fan-tasy” has its own special section.
“The goal was to get open right 
before the movie,” Heinlein said. “I deﬁ  nitely have seen an increase in the (BDSM) toys. I think it’s opened up. It has made it not so scary.”
2010, year before Fifty Shades
1,5002012, year after Fifty Shades
2,5004, ALLIGATOR ¨ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
Estimated number of people going to the emergency room for a sex toy-related injury.
(Figures are approximate)BDSM , from page 1MALL , from page 1
Local adult entertainment stores have seen spike in toy sales
Information via Washington Post, NEISS / Alligator StaffHe doesn’t expect to leave any time soon
WESLEY HIGGINS
Oracle Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: This story 
originally ran in the Univer-sity of South Florida’s paper, The Oracle.
A 17-year-old boy may 
have felt a little prick when 
surgeons completed the world’s ﬁ  rst penis reduction surgery.
The operation was pio-
neered at the University of South Florida by urologist Dr. Rafael Carrion, director of USF’s Sexual Medicine 
Program. The patient report-
edly complained that his pe-
nis was getting in the way of living a normal life, whether playing sports, having inter-course or wearing non-bag-gy pants in public.
“There comes a time in 
every urologist’s career that a patient makes a request so 
rare and impossible to com-
prehend that all training breaks down and leaves the physician speechless,” Car-rion told The Daily Mail.
Results and ﬁ  ndings of 
the surgery were published 
in November in The Jour-
nal of Sexual Medicine, in a paper titled “The Reduction Corporoplasty: The Answer to the Improbable Urologic Question ‘Can You Make My Penis Smaller?’”
The boy’s penis, while 
ﬂ  accid, measured seven inch-es in length and 10 inches in circumference — comparable to the shape of a football and size of a grapefruit.
Though the boy was able 
to achieve orgasm through masturbation, he was un-able to complete intercourse, according to the paper pub-lished in the medical journal. The boy reported that, 
during the several times he attempted intercourse, his partner complained of dis-comfort due to the penis’ girth.
The Daily Mail article 
stated this anomalous case is the result of the boy’s sickle cell anemia, which blocked the ﬂ  ow to penile blood ves-sels leading to long-lasting and highly painful erections that eventually deformed the penis. When the boy got an 
erection, his penis reportedly 
got ﬁ  rmer but not longer.
“It sounds like a man’s 
dream — a tremendously inﬂ  ated phallus,” Carrion told The Daily Mail, “but un-fortunately, although it was a generous length, its girth was just massive, especially 
around the middle.”
Having no precedent to 
base the procedure on, Car-
rion and a team of surgeons bypassed the urethra and the sensation nerves, cut along the circumcision scar, unwrapped the skin and removed tissue from both 
sides of the penis.
“It’s slightly longer and 
slightly thicker than the av-
erage male, but now it looks symmetrical,” Carrion told 
The Daily Mail.
The patient spent two 
days in the hospital after the 
surgery, according to The Daily Mail, and was “ecstat-ic” with his new penis.
Since the paper describing 
the surgery was published, Carrion reported being asked to perform the surgery by one other patient.
“These are controversial 
waters we’re stepping in,” 
Carrion told The Daily Mail. 
“Who is to judge what is a le-gitimate complaint and what isn’t?”USF performs first 
penis reduction
DEBATE , from page 1Online voting, diversity discussedWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
SANTA FE
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A downpour of rain stretched 
across Gainesville on Tuesday 
morning as future law enforcement officers finished a chapter of their lives.
Santa Fe College basic recruit law 
enforcement graduates of the Insti-tute of Public Safety class No. 127 joked and chatted outside of a Santa Fe auditorium waiting for the start of their graduation ceremony. In-side, family and friends talked.
The graduates endured six 
months of training that taught them everything they needed to know to be law enforcement officers, such as 
shooting and first aid.
Joshua Wallace, 21, said the train-
ing was long but made him feel pre-
pared for the future.
“I wanted to serve (my country) 
in some way but still stay locally,” he said.  
The graduates went through 770 hours of training during their time at the academy, describing it as chal-lenging but rewarding.
Through it all, they bonded to-
gether, he said.
“It’s unity through shared mis-
ery,” said Alex Acosta, a 23-year-old Marine Corps veteran.
As the ceremony began, Asso-
ciate Director Robert Dolan said a prayer asking God to help and pro-tect the graduates.
“I ask that you bless them with 
wisdom,” he prayed.  “Wisdom when it comes to dealing with people different from them and the situations that they may face as law enforcement officers.”
Florida State Rep. Clovis Watson, 
Jr., also attended the ceremony.  
“It is you who will keep the com-
munity safe,” the Santa Fe criminal justice technology alumni  told the graduates.
He also warned them of the chal-
lenges they will face as officers.
“You will be the most needed 
and the most unwanted,” he said. But the sentiment didn’t scare 
Thomas Stanfield.  
“I’m not worried,” the 23-year-
old said.  “It’s just making me want to do it more.”
In an address Wallace gave dur-
ing the ceremony, he thanked his in-structors, reflected on their training and talked of their futures.
“The sheep pretend the wolf will 
never come,” Wallace said at the end of his speech.  “But the sheep-dog lives for that day. We are the sheepdogs.”
Santa Fe law enforcement cadets celebrate graduationALEX HARRIS
Alligator Staff Writer aharris@alligator.org
UF student senators spent this 
week’s meeting highlighting up-coming SG-funded events.
The meeting began in the Uni-
versity Auditorium immediately 
after the Freshman Leadership 
Council debate. There were no res-olutions passed, and no bills were read.
Public debate began with a pre-
sentation from SG-funded group Shakespeare in the Park. Its upcom-ing performance of “The Winter’s Tale” will take place from March 12 
to 15 on the Plaza of the Americas. It’s free to all students. Performanc-
es will take place at 7 p.m., except on March 15, which will be at 3 p.m.
Sen. Preston Jones used his pub-
lic debate time to ask senators to 
remind students of helmet safety, 
based on his floormate’s involve-ment in last week’s scooter crash.
“I would hope we continue to 
operate as a senate on issues such as these that are important to our constituents,” he said.
SG and the Career Resource 
Center are hosting a major and mi-nor fair today from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
There will be no Senate meeting 
next week due to elections.Student Senate hears 
from Shakespeare group EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
With rain pouring almost all day, local drivers 
dealt with accidents across the county Tuesday.
Florida Highway Patrol responded to 21 acci-
dents in Alachua County Tuesday, with the first 
one occurring just before 8 a.m. and the last one just after 6 p.m. Thirteen of the crashes happened on I-75 between the 380 and 392 mile markers, ac-cording to a patrol report.
“Every time we have a lot of rain, there’s a lot of 
crashes,” Alachua County Sheriff’s Office spokes-man Art Forgey said. “The two go hand in hand together.”
At about 9:00 a.m., Cynthia Russo, 22, was driv-
ing on I-75 when she saw a car hydroplane into a truck and a gray car hit a guardrail, with two more cars then crashing into it. The fifth-year Santa Fe anthropology student got out of her car to help a passenger out of the gray car.“She was pinned because the dashboard had 
caved in and I helped her out,” Russo said. 
Officials asked her to leave after because the 
scene was too dangerous.
Just after noon, another I-75 accident occurred 
at the northbound 381 mile marker, involving three semi-tractor trailers and a pickup truck. The northbound lanes were shut down for more than four hours while crews cleaned up debris and about 50 gallons of spilled diesel fuel.  
Six people were taken to the hospital with mi-
nor injuries, according to the report.
Nam Diep, the owner of Gainesville’s Lollicup 
Coffee & Tea, was driving from Tampa when one 
of the semi tractor-trailers in front of him crashed 
into another semi tractor-trailer just after the 
Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park rest stop.
“I heard a loud bang, screeching tires and then 
there was a truck jack-knifing in front of me,” 
Diep, 36, said.Multiple accidents across the 
county most likely caused by rain Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Accent’s Women’s 
History Month 
neglect concerning
Accent Speaker’s Bureau has reliably brought us great 
guests over the years. Thanks to the group’s work, 
we’ve had the pleasure of hosting such illustrious 
and enviable personalities as Carl Hiaasen, Kurt Vonnegut, George Takei, Queen Latifah, Dr. Kevorkian and Ben & Jerry — yes, THAT Ben & Jerry. Next week, they’ll be bringing us 
James Franco, who will converse with J-school professor and 
de facto journalism guru Mike Foley.
We’re excited for the chance to see Franco in the ﬂ  esh. 
His celebrity transcends even starring roles in “Freaks and Geeks,” “Pineapple Express” and “127 Hours” The man is 
also an author and college professor, and he recently made a 
movie that came close to starting World War III.
That’s one of the many amazing things about going to UF 
— the opportunity to see speakers and performers we oth-
erwise wouldn’t be able to see. But that’s the responsibility Accent has. The way it ﬁ  lls this role isn’t quite as warm and 
fuzzy.
Accent won’t be hosting a speaker for Women’s History 
Month. This decision went through even though the presi-dent of the Women’s Student Association, Diamond Delan-
cy, reached out to Accent in August about the idea of bring-
ing Raven-Symoné to speak in March for Women’s History Month.
Of course, it would be ridiculous to expect Accent to ar-
range a speaker for every history month. After all, Accent 
has neither an unlimited budget nor an inﬁ  nite amount of 
time. But still, the lack of speakers for, or even recognition 
of, Women’s History Month seems like an oversight — es-
pecially when the list of previous speakers leans more than 
overwhelmingly male. Like, we get it, this is an old institu-
tion and a majority of speakers anywhere are probably male. 
But this seems like a much wider gender gap than normal.
Full disclosure: Accent will be co-sponsoring an event at 
the end of March in which former First Lady Rosalynn Carter will speak at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. But 
why can’t that be a part of Women’s History Month? It’s dis-
concerting; Women’s History Month clearly isn’t a priority.
Another, more daunting issue brought up in the story was 
Accent’s accessibility, or rather the lack thereof. When Delan-
cy reached out to the organization with her proposal, only 
a few emails were exchanged before the idea was dropped. 
Perhaps Accent’s staffers have too little time and resources to devote to outside ideas, or in August they’d already booked 
themselves too far in advance to work with a major student 
organization.
At any rate, this situation reﬂ  ects that of Student Govern-
ment in general. While they do some exciting things for stu-
dents, powerhouse SG organizations simply aren’t accessible 
to or representative of the average Gator.
660 TOTAL VOTES67% Access
33% Swamp
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Which 
Student Government party’s platform do you support?Today’s question: Have you been injured using a sex 
toy?Happiness found through selﬁ  shness
A survey conducted in the fall by the University of California, Los Angeles, revealed that ﬁ  rst-year college students are more depressed than 
ever. It’s not just ﬁ  rst-year students who are facing mental health issues, however. 
An American College Health Association study from 
2011 reported that 30 percent of college students in all grades have felt so depressed that it was difﬁ  cult to func-tion, and nearly 7 percent of college students seriously contemplated suicide.
What happened to college being the best years of our 
lives? 
The world became more competitive. Expectations 
evolved and most of us have simply accepted them. College students are now more than ever supposed to manage leadership positions, pursue high-paying ca-reers, get excellent grades and be healthy — all while ﬁ  nding love, following a religion and keeping family in mind. When we come up short — which is impossible to avoid — we often feel disappointed and stressed.
Those feelings can be avoided. How so? By being 
selﬁ  sh. Accept that society asks too much of us and set your own realistic goals. Discover what you want to do with your life and ignore what society pressures you to do.
Pursue leadership positions and get involved in or-
ganizations only if you’re passionate about them. De-vote a signiﬁ  cant amount of time to your love life or religion, or ignore them both completely. Register for classes that make you want to get out of bed. Spend an hour on the treadmill if that’s what excites you, or hang out responsibly downtown if you’re craving it. Either way, make decisions that will make you happy and inch you closer to your own dreams — not society’s.
As for the socializing agents who create the Bigfoot-
sized shoes you are expected to ﬁ  ll, help them under-stand their role in your life. It is their responsibility as a mentor, friend or relative of a college student to encourage you to raise the bar and chal-lenge yourself. They shouldn’t raise the bar for you. Remind them that you run your own show. 
Furthermore, ask them to re-
frain from pushing you toward careers, involvements or values that they want you to adopt. Most likely, they just want to 
see you ﬁ  t into society’s deﬁ  nition of success, but their impositions often become overbearing. So tell them that you are going to paint your own portrait, but you still want them to stand by you and encourage you to paint.
Not all of us have to become presidents of student 
organizations, valedictorians, ministers, athletes and humanitarians at the same time. In fact, tending to those expectations will lead to disappointment and stress. Shrug them off if they’re not for you, and ﬁ  nd the suc-cess that you deﬁ  ne. Sure, you’ll still face stresses from other directions, but you’ll make the best out of what you can control.
A 2013 Gallup poll reported that unhappy employ-
ees outnumber happy ones by a ratio of two to one. You can take one step toward avoiding that unfortunate out-come right now. 
Ask yourself if you’re happy with what you’re study-
ing and involved in. Then take out a sheet of paper and rank your happiness from one to 10. Write down every-thing hindering you from reaching 11 and selﬁ  shly de-cide what you’re going to change. Despite the pressures society imposes on you, it’s your life. All you have to do is take control of it.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Our current sociopolitical climate is confusing and 
sometimes paradoxical. I’d like to believe that legis-lation reﬂ  ects popular opinion or, at the very least, 
is protective and just. The shortsighted have praised mar-riage equality gains as a reliable sign of progress. But many are quick to forget the end of the LGBTQ+ acronym. 
Social equality doesn’t begin and end with gay men — 
there’s a host of neglected nonbinary people that can’t boast the same “progress.” Transgender women, especially those of color, are some of the most disadvantaged people, facing legal discrimination and unequal targeting of hate crimes. 
According to a 2013 study by the National Coalition of 
Anti-Violence Programs, nearly 67 percent of hate violence 
homicide victims were trans women of color.
We continue to not only ig-
nore the needs of transgender 
Americans but also allow legisla-
tion that blatantly discriminates 
against them. A law passed in 2012 in Tennessee actively prosecutes transgender people for the so-called crime of using the “wrong” public rest-
room. Not too long ago, similar laws outlawed marrying 
someone of the “wrong” gender, yet the same opinionated 
allies who oppose homophobic laws are often silent on is-sues of trans rights.
We cannot claim social progress by taking one step for-
ward and two steps back. One positive piece of legislation 
does not negate the countless discriminatory laws against 
transgender people. Marriage equality does not justify the criminalization of trans womanhood, and we cannot re-main silent while harmful laws and ideologies grow, fed by our compliance.
Actress and activist Laverne Cox has been a powerful 
voice, bringing to attention many issues of trans rights and black justice speaking as a black trans woman herself. Yet, despite the progress she has made as an actress or the minds she has opened as a speaker, trans women of color are still murdered, policed and shamed for simply existing. Cox continues to express how her success is not reﬂ  ective of the struggle trans women still face, and often shares stories of murdered trans women.
It is often difﬁ  cult to dissect linking systems of oppres-
sion, because they are so intertwined and so impossible to separate. Trans women of color face a tri-fold system of op-pression that not only disempowers them but ignores and erases them. 
The story of Leelah Alcorn recently gained viral status 
— rightfully so — and generated an encouraging public outcry that brought trans issues to the forefront. For once, we were speaking about the incomparable struggle of a trans adolescent and the cruelty of unsupportive parent-ing and “conversion therapy” without ﬁ  rst having to watch an episode of “Orange is the New Black.” Unfortunately, Alcorn’s story was far from ﬁ  ction, and hardly atypical, as suicide rates for gay and trans youth are uncommonly high. 
While Alcorn’s story was heard loud and clear, the tragic 
deaths of many trans women of color go unnoticed by the general public and unmentioned by the media. Alcorn’s story was sad — she saw death as the only escape from her unsupportive parents — but what about the stories of CeCe Acoff or Islan Nettles? What about the stories of nonbinary women of color murdered for simply having the audacity to exist?
It’s all well and good to be a champion for same-sex 
rights, women’s rights or what have you. It makes for pleas-ant-enough left-wing dinner conversation and stands as the new marker for basic social decency. But until we can rec-ognize that same-sex rights don’t always include everyone and that women’s rights don’t always include everyone, we’re doomed to keep claiming to be on the verge of social progress we can never hope to achieve.  
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.February is always a challenging month 
to push through. It’s not just because of the cute couples who meander through 
campus and remind you that you are, in fact, single. 
No, it’s because of the sweets. Yes, the mouth-water-
ing boxes of chocolate sold at every functioning estab-
lishment in town.
Holiday sweets are problematic for those of us who 
swore to a healthier lifestyle at the start of the New Year. 
The rows upon rows of such temptation do not mix well with dieting and New Year’s resolutions.
As college students, unhealthy foods and beverages 
are all around us. They are basically unavoidable. This creates a large amount of pressure for students who diet 
regularly. This kind of pressure can potentially lead to the 
consumption of dietary supplements. According to an ar-ticle published by Pharmacy Times, an online pharmaceuti-cal website, college students are more likely to use dietary supplements than the general population. The researchers found that students claim to use dietary supplements for two reasons: to address general health concerns and for an increase in energy levels.
I have never been a big supporter of dietary supple-
ments, even with professional recommendation. A blog post published Feb. 3 by The New York Times further deepened my insecurities when I read the New York attor-ney general’s ofﬁ  ce accused four major retailers — Target, Wal-Mart, GNC and Walgreens — of selling fraudulent herbal supplements. Authorities conducted tests on top-selling herbal brands and discovered that most of the ingre-dients listed were either false or replaced by other ingredi-ents. Some of the ingredients found included house plants, 
wheat and powdered supplements such as garlic and rice.
These ingredients do not really promote the healthy and natural facade as advertised by companies. It 
is ridiculous that so many of today’s edible products are manufactured and altered to the point where we have to question: Is this even food anymore? But, unfortunately, these is-
sues seem to be unavoidable from all food production com-
panies, not just supplement manufacturers.
Dietary supplements and other forms of enhancement 
drugs are not necessary to have a healthy lifestyle. Nor are 
they necessary to transform the human body. Vitamin C chewable tablets are my only personal exception.
Living a healthy lifestyle is attainable with sufﬁ  cient 
amounts of nutrition, sleep and exercise.
General health concerns and energy levels would natu-
rally increase if these three factors were prominent in an individual’s everyday routine.
I would advise students to form their own healthy life-
styles by monitoring their diet and sleep schedules, as well as exercising regularly. That way, misleading products can be avoided and lifelong patterns not established. College seems to be the time when patterns are formed, so consider creating some of value that will promote a natural, healthy lifestyle no matter what age you are.
I mean, eating a Relish burger from time to time is not 
going to harm the body too much. But if it happens — 
which I’m more than 100 percent positive it will on a Fri-
day night — turn to the gym the next day or eat a healthy dinner. Dietary supplements and enhancements have been proven to be misleading and unhealthy. Instead, take con-trol of your own general health in a more natural manner. 
This way, 2015 New Year’s resolutions will not have to 
be repeated when 2016 comes around, and healthier choic-es can become a part of your routine.
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Supplements not required to be healthyColumn
Grace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.org
Amy Coker
opinions@alligator.orgTrans women of 
color oppressed overwhelmingly, 
even more ignoredColumn
An Ohio hospital ﬁ  red a 58-year-
old vegan customer service repre-sentative for refusing a ﬂ  u shot in 
2010. She sued the hospital for religious discrimination.
If recently proposed federal legislation 
passes, vegans like her and me might get needles jammed into our arms against our will. Until scientists make vaccines without animal or insect parts, however, the nonmedical vaccination exemptions should stay. Veganism should be a reli-gion, and as the U.S. Constitution puts it, “Congress shall make no law respecting 
an establishment of religion, or prohibit-
ing the free exercise thereof.”
A religion’s scope is open to interpre-
tation. Religion is broadly deﬁ  ned as “all aspects of religious observance and prac-tice, as well as belief,” in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, “in most cases whether or not a practice or belief is re-ligious is not at issue,” the Code of Fed-
eral Regulations adds. “In those cases in 
which the issue does exist, the Commis-sion will deﬁ  ne religious practices to in-clude moral or ethical beliefs as to what is right and wrong which are sincerely held with the strength of traditional religious views.”
I’ve been a vegan since birth, besides 
the rare times my friends would slip 
ham in my sandwich or when I would 
sample a birthday cake. I don’t wear leather jackets or eat animal-based foods because I believe animals shouldn’t have to be hurt or killed. All of the species on Earth are connected: For the good of Planet Earth, all species should be treated equally and live in peace. In United States v. Seeger (1965), the U.S. Supreme Court 
allowed a man to skip a military draft be-
cause his religious objections, like mine, were as strong as a traditional religious group’s belief in a supreme being.
Consciously accepting chicken parts 
in a measles shot is as unethical as accept-ing eggs and bacon for breakfast. The vac-cine is a weakened version of the measles virus — weakened so a human immune system can build up defenses to prevent the real virus. Back in the old days, biolo-gists created Frankenstein bacteria from sugars and salts, but to grow weak vi-
ruses, they needed extra nutrition from 
unhatched chicken eggs called embryos. Vaccine manufacturer Novavax has an HPV vaccine with insect cells, but even if insects could someday work for measles, they’re no better.
In the workplace, Title VII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964 prevents new job rejec-tion, segregation or ﬁ  ring employees. The 
document notes that employers should 
not discriminate based on religion unless the beliefs, observations or practice cause an “undue hardship” on business opera-tions. The Ohio hospital tried to dismiss its vegan former employee’s case, but an Ohio court rejected the dismissal. Since there were only 141 people affected by measles as of Friday, and the outbreak is 
limited to certain areas, I don’t see refus-
ing the measles shot as hurting business operations. If somebody is in a measles Ground Zero, they should be temporarily excused from work with pay or allowed to work remotely.In education, Title VI of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964 allows students in public schools and universities to refuse vaccination for religious reasons. The at-torney general can prosecute if students 
are denied admission or are not able to 
attend classes because of faith. Somehow, every state except Mississippi and West Virginia allows religious vaccine exemp-tions. If there were ever a measles out-break on campus, UF would excuse me from classes, which makes sense — be-fore widespread measles vaccination in 1980, about 2.6 million people were killed 
by the disease every year.
Maybe scientists could ﬁ  nd cures in-
stead of vaccines. Last year, scientists 
understood the liver cancer-causing Hep-atitis C virus enough for the FDA to ap-prove a $1,125 per pill drug. 
“So far, it looks like this drug now 
available, probably will, in effect, eradi-cate Hepatitis C entirely,” said Dr. Chen 
Liu, lead Hepatitis C researcher and as-
sociate chair of the UF Department of Pathology. He said only time would tell if the virus grows resistant to the drug in large populations.
My opposition claims I’m risking 
lives. In the archaic Jacobson v. Massa-chusetts case, the Supreme Court ruled in 1905 that a state has the power to require 
smallpox vaccination during an outbreak. 
Sure, we could require motorcyclists to wear helmets because more than 55,000 people are hurt in motorcycle accidents every year. We could also ban tobacco be-cause about 3,000 people die every year from secondhand smoke.
Lawmakers should make exemptions 
harder to get while still respecting civil 
rights.
Andrew Silver is a UF mathematics 
junior. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Refusing vaccines for veganism is a rightColumn
Andrew Silver
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
www.AviaraGainesville.com 205 SE 16th Avenue  Gainesville, FL 32601
(p) 352.373.3371 (f) 352.373.5748
$300 for each 
qualified referral
LINDSAY ALEXANDER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eran del Castillo scoured the Internet look-
ing for fun facts to test UF’s aspiring engineers 
in preparation for Engineers’ Week.
Four teams qualiﬁ  ed and competed in UF’s 
Engineering Knowledge Bowl, which kicked 
off the week on Monday. 
The UF Quiz Bowl team came out victori-
ous as the ﬁ  rst non-STEM organization to win 
the campus competition that tested students in punny engineering categories such as, “It’s not rocket science, it’s math.”
The week will showcase ﬁ  ve more main 
events, including the Engineering Leadership Forum today, Engineering Fest on Saturday 
and the Engineering Fair on Monday and 
Tuesday. There will also be several smaller events throughout campus until the closing 
ceremony Feb. 26. 
These events are meant to highlight student 
involvement opportunities both inside and 
outside the College of Engineering.“My favorite part is being able to un-isolate 
ourselves from our little bubble that is engi-neering,” del Castillo said. “(Engineers’ Week 
is) a celebration of what engineers do.”
Del Castillo said students will meet with 
representatives from companies such as Dow 
Chemical to learn about them, ask questions and network during the Engineering Forum.
The week will be less serious during En-
gineering Fest, which will turn Norman Field into a carnival-like atmosphere with inﬂ  ata-bles, fair food and music. 
Kelly Hallisey, president of the Benton En-
gineering Council, said the biggest event is the Engineering Fair, which is open to elementary, middle and high school students.
The 21-year-old nuclear engineering senior 
said organizations within the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) ﬁ  elds are eager to use this event to reach out to younger students and get them excited for higher education.
More information about Engineers’ Week 
events can be found at ufbec.org.Engineers’ Week highlights 
opportunities for students TOURISM REACHED A HIGH 
LAST YEAR.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
A record number of tourists visited 
Florida last year.
About 97.3 million tourists traveled 
to the Sunshine State, marking the fourth 
year in a row of steady increases, accord-
ing to a press release from Gov. Rick 
Scott. According to the state’s tourism website, Visit Florida, that was nearly 4 million more visitors than in 2013.
“People now have more discretion-
ary income and are beginning to travel again,” director of Visit Gainesville John Pricher wrote in an email.
He said the improvement of the econ-
omy as well as the beauty of Florida’s natural attractions brings people to the state.
“We have a wealth of (beauty) be-
tween springs and the rivers and the state parks and just the overall natural surroundings does make us a nice choice for visitors,” Pricher said
According to Visit Florida, 11.5 per-
cent of the 97.3 million tourists in 2014 weren’t from the U.S., an increase from 2013.
Visit Florida also estimated 20.2 mil-
lion Floridians toured the state, an in-crease from 2013 as well.
“Florida’s natural beauty, pristine 
beaches and exciting attractions continue to bring countless visitors to our state 
and provide valuable jobs for our fami-
lies,” Scott said in the release.
In the release, Scott promised to make 
2015 an even better year for tourism in the state.
The governor said he is proposing an 
additional $17.5 million as a part of his “Keep Florida Working” budget so Visit Florida can better market the state and 
continue the rise in tourist numbers.
Visit Tampa Bay spokesman Dave 
Reynolds said part of what makes Flor-
ida so attractive is the diverse number of attractions it offers as well as the weather.
“Coming on a vacation to Florida isn’t 
just a sit-around-in-a-ﬁ  ve-star-hotel sort of situation,” Reynolds said.  “It’s a place where you can go explore and be active 
and do things that you can share with 
your friends and just make it a vacation that is really about yourself and about taking part in all the great activities we have here.”Tourists ﬂ  ock to sunny FlaWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    2-19-15-5-2
Luxurious Jackson Square2BR/2.5BA TownhouseDouble balcony; One left!$1600/mo. 352-505-5049www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Scooter in brand new condition - Only driven 
104 miles. 2009 Peace Sports yellow 50cc 
scooter. Asking $650.00 Call Jackie @352-
339-6494 or email jackiejo46@aol.com.    
2-19-15-2-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 2-20-14-73-13 `
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Blueprint LSAT is hiring! $15/hour
Blueprint LSAT is hiring students to flyer
on and around the UFL campus for 2-5 
hours a week (make your own schedule). 
Flyers will be provided. Very flexible!
2-18-15-5-14
Signature Tutoring Services is looking for  
great tutors to work with students between February and March. Our students need tutoring in all subject areas through the AP level. The tutor will be responsible for teach-ing the curriculum provided by the students' full-time schools, and for ensuring that the students are completing and submitting their academic work on time.  Students and tutors work in person or via Skype.Send your resume toMgiglio@signaturetutoring Signaturetutoring.com          2-20-15-5-14
looking for p/t cleaner w/experience who has reliable transportation, &valid DL/insur -
ance...$8/hr ...if interested please call 352-214-0868 Caleitha     2-20-4-14Babysitter wanted - for children ages 6 to 12. Mostly weekday afternoon/evening times. Help with homework, light house-keeping. $12/hr. Email resume and refer-ences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    2-24-15-5-14
Fun,easy babysitting job! M-F 1:30-6. Great pay. Reliable transportation a must. Non-smokers only, must love animals, too. Text (352)284-0998 for more info.    2-20-15-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
Professional resume writing to get you hired. 
Student Rates: $49 only, forResume, Cover Letter and Follow up Letter.www.arcaderesumes.com    2-24-15-5-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Gymnasts earn SEC honors
Senior Kytra Hunter and freshman Kennedy Baker 
were named the SEC Gymnast of the Week and SEC Freshman of the Week, respectively, on Tuesday.Dan Wallace and the UF swimming and diving teams began the SEC Championships. Read the 
story on page 14.Softball senior sweeps up awards
Florida Gators softball’s Lauren Haeger won both major National Player of the Week awards, the NFCA and ASAA announced Tuesday. Haeger had not previously won either award. RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@RagjUF
This year’s Florida basket-
ball team has fallen from near 
the top of college basketball’s 
Mount Everest to the depths 
of the Mariana Trench by the standards Billy Donovan has set for the program as its head 
coach. 
Doomsday scenarios have 
Florida playing in the College 
Basketball Invitational, while most analysts see the Gators 
going to the National Invita-
tion Tournament.However, with a miracle by 
way of a Southeastern Confer-ence tournament hot streak, 
a berth in the NCAA tourna-
ment is still a possibility. 
But what disgruntled fans 
don’t see is what Donovan does — that a March spent 
playing in college basketball’s 
less than marquee postseason events can teach a team valu-able lessons if its members are 
willing to listen.
“Those teams that went to 
the NIT in back-to-back years 
(2008, 2009), I didn’t think that we learned anything from the 
first NIT to the second NIT,” Donovan said. 
“Did not learn a thing. It 
took two of those to actually start to see some change, and 
I’m hopeful that these guys can see some stuff and as a coaching staff, we can help them internalize and visualize 
and see and visualize what it 
is to help them grow.”
That team had a similar cir-
cumstance to this one: a cham-
pionship caliber team that had 
key cogs leave it. 
Enter in a team with tal-
ent to follow, but a largely unproven group whose flaws 
were masked by better team-
mates before they took promi-nent roles on the team. 
It’s assumed that Donovan 
could plug and play and ev-
erything would be status quo, 
but growing pains strike and the team struggles thanks in large part to an inability to get 
the message from the coaches’ 
mouths to the players’ heads and then get it to translate out onto the floor when the lights turn on. 
Donovan, the CEO of one 
of college basketball’s millen-nial powerhouses takes that personally.
“Right now, I feel in a lot 
of ways I have been unable to help them in a lot of those ar-eas,” Donovan said. 
“For me, as a coach, I get 
disappointed in myself be-cause I couldn’t be of more help. It’s not necessarily from a lack of trying, it’s not like 
we have bad kids that don’t 
listen, but for whatever rea-son, we have not — and I have not — been able to get them to do those things on a con-
sistent basis. At times for me, 
I feel like I’ve let them down in some ways and that bothers me.”
Wednesday night, the Donovan: UF can learn from season
Florida takes on Vanderbilt tonight 
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
Right fielder Ryan Larson 
wanted a solid start to the season.
Catch a few fly balls, put some 
runners in scoring position and keep the errors to a minimum.
But when his teammates began 
to rack up hits against Rhode Is-
land on Saturday, the sophomore 
stepped up to the plate with a dif-ferent mindset.
“Hitting is contagious,” he 
said. 
“One guy gets a hit and it’s 
like, oh, I can do it, too.”
Larson hit a deep shot into left 
field for a three-run homer on 
Saturday — the first home run of 
his career.He didn’t realize he had scored 
until he was halfway around the 
bases.
“I’m not a 
home run hit-
ter, so I hit the 
ball and my 
head was down, 
thinking second the whole time,” Larson said. 
“Then I looked 
up and people were cheering, so I 
was like OK, I guess I’ll start jog-ging now.”
It was part of an opening 
series in which four different Gators homered — including JJ Schwarz, Richie Martin and Har-Notebook: Outfielder 
anticipating more hits after 37-run weekend  BASEBALL
 FLORIDA’S PITCHERS HAVE 
STRUCK OUT 108 BATTERS THIS SEASON.
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer
@pinakk12
Florida’s pitching is dominant – so 
dominant, that 
even UF’s own 
hitters will tell you 
that they hate fac-ing the Gators’ trio 
of pitchers in practice.
“Oh my gosh it sucks,” said senior 
outfielder Bailey Castro. “Nobody ever wants to hit in scrimmages. It’s always like, ‘Ugh, who’s team am I on? Who do I have to hit off of today?’ It’s a big joke.”
Castro, who is tied for the team lead 
with three home runs and is hitting a respectable .385, is no slouch – but UF’s hurlers seem to have her and opposing hitters figured out quite well as the team is off to an 11-0 start.
In 65 innings of work this year, Flori-
da’s pitching staff – consisting of Lauren Haeger, Delanie Gourley and Aleshia Ocasio – has struck out a whopping 108 batters – nearly two per inning – and has held opponents to a mere .132 batting 
average.
Haeger, who leads the staff with a 
5-0 record and a 0.00 ERA, was named 
Southeastern Conference Pitcher of the 
Week after striking out 24 batters in 15 
shutout innings, while earning three wins during the impressive stretch last week.  
Even more impressive is that the staff 
has given up only three earned runs in 11 games.
To put that in perspective, last year’s 
pitching staff, which carried the team to Dominant UF pitching 
staff giving batters 
trouble during practice
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 62-61 loss 
to Ole Miss on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. Florida, on a four-game losing streak, plays Vanderbilt tonight at 7 p.m. 
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15 SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15“For whatever reason, 
we have not — and I have 
not — been able to get 
them to do those things 
on a consistent basis.”
Billy Donovan
UF basketball coachLarson
UF Sof tballENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer @eneisyr29
The UF women’s tennis team has a 
rough week ahead.
No. 2 Florida’s first stop this week 
is Tallahassee, where it will face No. 
34 Florida State today at 4 p.m. at the 
Scott Speicher Tennis Center, weather 
permitting—in the event of inclement weather, the match will be moved in-doors.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said FSU 
is always a tough environment to play at. The rivalry exists for every sport — for tennis, the stands get very rowdy. 
Thornqvist said it will be a test to 
see if the team can stay composed.
“It’ll be cold, it’ll be dark, they’ll be 
yelling at us,” Thornqvist said. “Our freshmen need to be ready and have thick skin.”
Florida (5-1) holds a 54-1 all-time 
record against Florida State (3-1). 
The only match the Gators 
dropped to FSU  happened six years 
ago in 2009.
The Gators are coming off a 10-day 
break following their outing at the 
ITA National Indoor Championship. Thornqvist was very pleased with the team’s performance at this competi-tion, especially in doubles play. 
He said this can be something that 
can make a difference at the end of the season.
“I think we played well,” Thorn-
qvist said. “We found out a lot about our team, that we have fight and we have the ability to make changes when we have to, in tight sets and tight matches. I think our three fresh-men and our four new players with Spencer (Liang), played really well, 
they handled the pressure well.”
Having a young squad can be posi-
tive for the future but can also impose 
some challenges on the team. Thorn-qvist said he thinks the team will have up-and-down performances because of the young roster.Junior Brianna 
Morgan is the only upperclassman on this season’s roster. Thornqvist hopes this will inspire the 
younger class and 
push them moving forward the rest of the season.  
“We’re still going to look for Brian-
na to be our anchor,” Thornqvist said. “She’s the one that has been around two Final Fours, she knows the brutal (Southeastern Conference) schedule. She’s going to be the one that sets the tone for us. I’m hoping the freshmen will sort of look at her and follow her 
lead here, because Bri knows what it 
takes.”
Florida will return home to host 
No. 16 Duke this Friday at 3 p.m. and No. 10 Stanford on Sunday at noon.
14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
The Florida men’s and women’s swimming and div-
ing teams locked up a combined four ‘A’ cuts during Day 1 of the five-day Southeastern Conference Champi-onships on Tuesday, but both teams still have a ways to go if either wants to secure a conference title.
The top-ranked men’s team sits in eighth place after 
the opening round with a score of 119, 58 points behind leader Auburn (177). The No. 4 women’s team fared bet-
ter on Tuesday, racking up 140 points for a fourth-place finish to open up competition in Auburn, Alabama.
The 800-yard freestyle relay high-
lighted the night for the men’s team, as Dan Wallace, Pawel Warner, Nicho-
las Alexiou and Mitch D’Arrigo fin-
ished in an SEC and UF-record 6:12.85, almost two-and-a-half seconds faster than second-place Auburn (6:15.14).
The men’s team also finished fifth in the 200-yard 
medley relay, recording an NCAA tournament auto-matic qualifying time of 1:24.91.
The women’s team’s finished both relays in the top-
five of the field as well, recording a third-place finish 
in the 800-yard freestyle relay (7:00.25, ‘A’ cut) and 
was fifth to stop the clock in the 200-yard medley relay (1:37.12, ‘A’ cut).
“I wish we had been better in the medley relays, but 
we made the NCAA (‘A’) standard in both, as they were good swims,” coach Gregg Troy said in a release. “We were just a tad shy on our touches in a couple of places. The women’s (800-yard freestyle) relay was tremendous for where we started the year, as we’ve had to piece things together with that all year.”
Khalia Warner also gave the women’s team an edge 
in the 3-meter dive. The junior from Queensland, Aus-
tralia, finished fifth in the event with a 362.25 score, 11.6 
points shy of the school record set by Monica Dodson in 2011.
Junior Emily Mosher finished 16th in the preliminary 
diving rounds for the women while Redshirt junior Zach Hernandez ended the day with a 20th-place finish 
in the men’s 1-meter dive with a score of 270.25. At least 
one diver from each of the other nine schools competing on the men’s side had a higher score than Hernandez.Men win 800-meter 
relay, women’s diver 
shines to open SECs
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Brianna Morgan hits a two-handed backhand during Florida’s 4-0 
win against Maryland on Jan. 25 at the Ring Tennis Complex. Florida takes on Florida State today at 4 p.m. in Tallahassee. 
SWIMMING & DIVING UF looking to junior for leadership vs. FSU
Thornqvist
Warner
 “We found out a lot about 
our team, that we have fight 
and we have the ability to 
make changes when we have 
to.”
Roland Thornqvist
UF women’s tennis coachVanderbilt Commodores (14-11, 4-8 SEC) come 
to the O’Connell Center. The Commodores have won three of their last four games — in-
cluding a 67-61 victory over the Gators (12-13, 
5-7 SEC) to start that stretch — after dropping seven straight Southeastern Conference after starting the league slate with a 1-7 record. 
That game, Vanderbilt shot 42 free throws 
to Florida’s 16 and dominated on the glass, outrebounding UF 42-26. 
UF’s problems with defending without 
fouling and lack of dominant post presence 
shone through that night in Memorial Gym, 
and Florida hopes this game can turn its own woeful performance this season around and gather some momentum for wherever they go 
this postseason.
“I think sometimes people look at the result 
of winning and losing and determine whether 
or not a team is playing at a high level or not,” Donovan said. “I think that they have always 
been playing really well. I think if you look at 
some of their scores, when they started out the league maybe 1-7 or whatever it was, I mean they were really, really competitive. Now 
there were a couple of games where they got 
beat handily. But they were right there, they were in some games and had some chances to win a lot of those games.”WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
HOOPS , from page 13UF lost 67-61 
to Vanderbilt on Feb. 3Freshman drove in 10 runs opening weekend
rison Bader — for the first time since 
Kevin O’Sullivan became head coach in 2008.
“I think we have a chance to have 
a good makeup of a club, but it’s so early,” O’Sullivan said. “There’s a lot of ups and downs in the season and I 
don’t want to get too far ahead of our-
selves, but we did have a lot of good at bats.”Bader, freshmen help make histo-
ry: Florida baseball made history over 
the weekend.
The Gators finished with their 
highest batting average (.340) in a 
season-opening series since 2004 and 
their most runs (37) since 2006.
Bader led the team with a .583 bat-
ting average, 11 RBIs and three home 
runs, one more homer than he had in all 44 games last year.
But after Saturday’s 22-3 victory over Rhode Island, in which the ju-nior went 3-for-4 with six RBIs, he was 
quick to compliment his teammates.
“It’s not only coming from me,” 
Bader said. “It’s always the best part 
when everyone in the lineup is really 
hitting.”
This has been especially true of the 
freshmen, who have combined for 10 
RBIs and 15 hits in three games.
Freshman Dalton Guthrie over-
came opening-week jitters to lead the rookie class in almost every category.
“The first night I was really excit-
ed, I couldn’t really feel my hands,” 
Guthrie said.
The second baseman finished sec-
ond on the team in total bases (nine), 
hits (six) and runs (four).
But the weekend’s standout was 
Bader, who earned his first career Southeastern Conference Player of the Week award on Monday.
“I’ve never seen someone hit like 
him. He’s pretty impressive,“ Guthrie said of Bader. “That day he had with the two homers was pretty impres-sive. I’ve never seen something like that.”
UF-Florida A&M game postponed: 
Florida’s Tuesday-night matchup 
with Florida A&M was postponed 
due to inclement weather. 
The Gators (3-0) play the Univer-
sity of South Florida (2-1) tonight at 6:30.  Sophomore Brett Morales, who 
appeared in 11 games with five starts 
in 2014, will start on the mound for 
Florida.BASEBALL , from page 13Stewart: ‘It’s not fun to hit off them in scrimmages at all’
a national championship, gave up 
four total earned runs in its first two games of the season against South 
Florida and Illinois State.
If Castro’s words weren’t 
enough to show how unhittable 
Florida’s staff is, take All-American 
Kelsey Stewart’s word for it.  
“It’s not fun to hit off them in 
scrimmages at all, especially be-
cause they know our weaknesses” Stewart said. “They [will] keep 
throwing my pitch and I’m just like, 
‘really?’”
Stewart’s .408 career batting av-
erage is the best in program history 
of players with at least 200 at-bats. 
The junior out of Wichita, Kansas, also set the program single-season school record with 102 hits last year.
Stewart said she’s been im-
pressed with this year’s pitching staff and thinks they’ve command-ed their pitches better than last 
year’s pitchers.
“I can really tell they’re hitting 
spots because people aren’t hitting 
them,” Stewart said. “So it’s really nice to see that they’re getting in 
there and getting their work in.”
So how has the staff been so suc-
cessful this season?
Coach Tim Walton said after 
Saturday’s doubleheader sweep of N.C. State and Iowa that one pitch 
has a lot to do with it.
“All of our pitchers are throwing 
rise balls,” Walton said, “and those balls go out of the ballpark if you 
miss, but you look at the strikeouts 
that we’re getting too – we’re get-ting a ton of strikeouts because they all feature a really good rise ball.”
When UF pitchers have missed 
their locations with their rise balls, teams have left the yard – all three earned runs allowed have been on solo home runs – two of which 
were hit off Ocasio.
Walton said that’s one thing 
he’d like to see the freshman im-
prove on.
“I think at times she tries a little 
bit too hard, especially closing out games,” Walton said. “[We] put her in some tough situations – you got-ta find out what they can do – and 
she’s done well but has not been 
flawless in those appearances yet. I think she’s slowly shut the door but she hasn’t slammed it shut yet.”
After every strikeout Florida re-
cords, the pitcher and catcher meet to celebrate. Junior catcher Aubree Munro, who has caught each of the pitchers, said she won’t get tired of 
doing this despite the number of 
strikeouts the staff racks up.
“That’s the best part,” Munro 
said. “They kind of each have their 
own trademark thing that they like 
to do.”SOFTBALL , from page 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Kelsey Stewart bats during Florida’s 7-6 win against Auburn on April 5 at Katie Seashole Pressly Sta-
dium. Stewart and the rest of Florida’s batters said that facing UF’s pitchers in practice is not fun. 
Andres Leiva/ Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera bats during Florida’s 9-1 win against Rhode Island on Friday at McKethan Stadium. 
16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Kayla Lewis prepares to shoot during Florida’s 64-56 loss to 
Tennessee on Feb. 8 in the O’Connell Center. Lewis is the lone senior on the Gators’ roster this season. 
FLORIDA TAKES ON VANDERBILT AT HOME ON THURSDAY. 
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
It’s a fair statement to say the Gators women’s 
basketball team has been dealt a heaping scoop of 
adversity this season.
Arguably the only adversity the team predicted 
is how daunting the finish line would be.
Despite how tough the final month of the season 
has been – a month that sees Florida play four of 
its final seven games against Top 25 ranked teams 
– coach Amanda Butler said it’s not something that the team dreads.
“It’s fun – grueling is a great word, no question 
it’s difficult, it’s challenging – but it’s fun,” Butler 
said. “I mean this is why you play in this league. 
You don’t dread it, you’re not worried about it. You’re excited for it.”
While losing is never exciting, the Gators felt the 
most alive after using a game-changing 13-0 run to defeat their first ranked opponent of the season, the then-No. 24 Georgia Bulldogs on the road.
Butler said that UF finally began to execute some 
of the lessons she’s emphasized in practice – name-
ly, running in transition on both sides of the court.
“We just played with a greater level of consis-
tency on both ends of the floor,” Butler said. 
“One of the things we try and do a lot of times 
in practice, especially when we’re ending a drill, is 
make sure we get a stop and a score to end the drill and move on to our next thing. And that’s what we were able to do, was to string together three con-secutive possessions of a score and a stop.”
Florida trailed for most of the game, and looked 
defeated before finally converting stops and capi-talizing on the momentum. 
For a team that’s been run out of the gym in 
several contests this season, the come-from-behind win proved that victories can be had if UF avoids sloppy play and utilizes the game plan.
But the Gators couldn’t keep the momentum go-
ing in its next game, a 75-62 loss to No. 13 Missis-sippi State on Sunday. 
UF started hot, opening the game on a 8-0 run, 
but Mississippi State soon turned it around and coasted to victory. 
Florida’s transition was limit-
ed, and the team failed to score on layups on multiple opportunities, 
resulting in wasted possessions.
“We were able to get some 
things against Mississippi State 
because we knew they were go-
ing to press us, we knew that they 
were going to be real aggressive to 
the boards,” Butler said. 
“January (Miller) just did a fantastic job of creat-
ing some of those opportunities and her teammates 
did a good job of finding her. And the biggest thing 
was she converted. We had a lot of looks in the paint (Sunday) night we just couldn’t convert.”
Regardless of a team’s ranking, Butler said that 
every victory over a Southeastern Conference op-ponent is critical to the development and growth of the team.
The Gators just need to focus on playing good 
basketball, and the wins will come.
“We’re not like ‘Oh no, we’ve got all these big, 
bad teams’. Every team in the SEC is big and bad,” Butler said. “You’ve got to be ready to play your best basketball. And I think our team is capable 
right now.”Gators ready for tough, fun SEC finish
Butler
