We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 67 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
UF preparing for tough 
Richmond team
Coach Mike White said the Spiders 
could be a “handful,” pg. 13
UF traditions hold strong for decades
Students make their own traditions, pg. 3
SG hosts ﬁ  rst Mental Health Awareness Week
It was created to break stigmas, pg. 5Want to work with us?
Staff applications are open this week. We are looking for writers, photographers, videographers and copy editors. For more information, email editor@alligator.org.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
PRESIDENTIAL SHAKE
Daniela Gonzalez, an 18-year-old UF accounting freshman, shakes hands with UF President Kent Fuchs during the Inauguration Week 
student event on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Monday afternoon. Gonzalez, an assistant Student Government treasurer, said she has met Fuchs before but was happy to see him again. For our coverage of the ﬁ  rst day of Inauguration Week, see pages 8 and 9.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Cristina Popescu lives paycheck 
to paycheck. She considers herself 
lucky.
She has a list of what she can af-ford with her $13,000 yearly salary as a graduate assistant: Rent. Utilities. 
Phone bill. Car insurance. Food.
The rest — $720 a semester — 
goes toward paying graduate student 
fees to UF.
“There’s no entertainment bud-
get; there’s no trips,” the UF health services research doctoral student said. “There’s nothing left, nothing 
extra.”
Popescu, 40, isn’t alone in her 
struggle.
She is one of about 4,000 gradu-
ate assistants at UF who works at 
the university as a teaching assistant, teaching her own classes and work-ing in research labs. About 1,000 of 
these graduate assistants live below 
the federal poverty line, said UF po-litical science doctoral student Kevin Funk.
They can be paid as little as 
$6,500 per year, and 188 of them are, he said. And while that’s supposed to be for only 10 hours of work per 
week, Funk said graduate assistants 
work full-time regardless of their em-ployment status.
Being a graduate student is like a 
full-time job, he said.Graduate assistants continue ﬁ  ght for salary raise 
CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars 
will be getting an extra $28,000 for scholar-ships this year because of three students.
UF Student Body President Joselin Pa-
dron-Rasines, Vice President Kevin Doan 
and Treasurer Nicholas Carre combined 
their one-year salaries and donated them to the Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars. The program beneﬁ  ts low-income, ﬁ  rst-generation students.
Carre said his job shouldn’t have a mon-
etary incentive.
“It shouldn’t be taking the students’ 
money for something we were elected for,” 
he said.
The executive ofﬁ  cers decided to donate 
to the Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars 
because they wanted to help ﬁ  rst-genera-tion students come to UF, Carre said.
“We didn’t just want our money sitting 
in reserves,” he said. “Who doesn’t want to help ﬁ  rst-generation students go to col-lege?”
Doan said he hopes the donation gives 
opportunity to others.
“It’s a cause that we can really stand be-
hind,” he said. 
Revel Lubin, a 19-year-old UF political 
science freshman, said UF was his dream school, but he needed ﬁ  nancial aid to afford it. The Machen Florida Opportunity Schol-arship sealed his decision.
The donated salaries will help students  
focus solely on school without worrying about getting a job, Lubin said.
“I think that’s, like, a huge sacriﬁ  ce on 
their behalf,” Lubin said.  SG execs 
donate salaries to scholarship
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Students could potentially lose their online 
subscriptions to The New York Times.
Student Government is deciding whether 
to renew The New York Times online sub-
scription available to UF students. The sub-
scription costs about $80,000, with $40,000 
paid for by SG and $40,000 from the Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost. The subscription has been avail-able online since October 2014.
UF Student Body treasurer Nicholas Carre 
said he is collecting usage data from the Of-ﬁ  ce of the Provost to see how many students are using the subscriptions. About 6,000 stu-dents have signed up for a subscription, he 
said.
SG is most likely renewing the subscrip-
tion this week, Carre said.
“Our contracts are about to be signed,” he 
said.
Carre said once the subscription is re-
newed, he wants to do a marketing campaign.“There’s a lot of students who don’t know 
about it,” he said.
Giving students access to world news is 
one of the most important services SG pro-
vides, Carre said.
UF economics senior Steven Hollis wrote 
in an email that SG should continue provid-ing this service to students.
“If students are more aware about topics, 
elections for instance, they may even start to pay more attention about news and elections going on around their own campus,” the 21-year-old said.SG debating New York Times online renewalSEE SALERY,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators anniversary cel-
ebration Saturday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club will host a 10th Anniversary Celebration and Reunion on 
Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 
the Uptown Village at Townsend clubhouse, 3780 NW 24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters members and officers  through-out the area and past and pres-ent Talking Gators club members and officers. RSVP by calling 352-283-3919 so we can plan for 
refreshments. For more informa-
tion about the club, visit talking-gators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Talking Gators Holiday Party
The Talking Gators Holiday Party and Gift Exchange will be dur-ing the Tuesday meeting at 5:45 p.m. Bring a wrapped new or 
gently used gift (about $5) for the 
exchange table for Table Topics. Meetings are in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Drive. For more information about the club, visit talkingga-tors.toastmastersclubs.org. or the Facebook page.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Winter Luau themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a gingerbread tiki hut contest, limbo with prizes and live mu-sic from Cas Haley. The event will also feature showings of the 
movie “Maze Runner: The Scorch 
Trials” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest to 
the event.
Sounds of the Season: An 
American HolidayUF’s College of the Arts and the School of Music are pleased to present their annual holiday con-cert, “Sounds of the Season: An 
American Holiday,” conducted 
by Will Kesling. The centerpiece of the concert, “Red Telephone,” is a short musical that shares the origin of the North American Aerospace Defense Command Tracks Santa program, which has been following Santa’s progress from the North Pole to children 
all over the globe since the 1950s. 
Another highlight will be the nar-ration of Longfellow’s “Christmas Bells” by UF President Kent Fuchs.Tickets are free and will be dis-tributed at the door beginning at 5 p.m. Sunday, the day of the 
concert. For more information, 
contact the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Box Office at 352-392-2787, or visit performin-garts.ufl.edu.
UF PRSSA & FPRA Holiday 
Student SocialJoin the UF chapter of the Public 
Relations Student Society of 
America and UF’s Florida Public Relations Association for an eve-ning of networking and connect-ing with local public relations professionals on Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. at AHA! The Innovation CoLab in Weimer Hall. There will be holiday-
themed desserts and chances 
to win prizes. Contact Patricia Krogh at pakrogh@havenhos-pice.org, or call 623-628-9148 for more information.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Merry Mug MakingReitz Union Board Entertainment 
is hosting Merry Mug Making on 
Thursday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. Students can paint mugs and Christmas ornaments for free. Hot cocoa, cookies and tea will be provided as well.
Home Craft Show
Featuring works of art from local artisans, many quality handmade items, original paintings, tatted and beaded jewelry, crocheted critters, paper art and more. Find that special holiday gift. Come out to 2915 NW 55th Blvd. on Dec. 12, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. We’ll be there rain or shine. For 
more information, email crafty-
queen12@cox.net.
Highlights from  the Popular 
Culture CollectionPopular Culture Collections cura-tor Jim Liversidge will spotlight some of the highlights from the UF Popular Culture Collection, 
including the costume sketches 
of Tony Award-nominated de-signer John David Ridge, film ephemera from the silent classics through the wide-screen era of the 1950s, Mexican and Cuban film posters, the photographs of Martin Harris (who worked for “Stars and Stripes,” “Life” 
and “Colliers”) and the original 
Superman prototype (1 out of 3 in the world) produced by the origi-nal artists. The talk will be held Monday at 2 p.m. in the Judaica Suite of Smathers Library (inside the Grand Reading Room on the second floor).
“This Book Belongs To” talkJoin Suzan Alteri, curator of the Baldwin Library of Historical Children’s Literature, for a hands-
on display and discussion illus-
trating how children expressed their love of family, friends and books through inscriptions, color-ing and other marks of the hand. The talk will be Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Judaica Suite of Smathers Library (inside the Grand Reading Room on the second floor).
Cuba’s National Archives: 
Understanding Archives and the Archives Profession in the Global ContextJorge Macle Cruz, the former vice director of information and repro-duction of materials for research-ers at the Archivo Nacional de 
Cuba is an authority on provin-
cial archives and the declassifica-tion of government documents in Cuba. He will speak Tuesday from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Latin American and Caribbean Collection Reading Room on the third floor of Smathers Library.
Treasures from the Price Library 
of Judaica: Tales of the Rare and UnexpectedRebecca Jefferson, curator of the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica, will display a selection of rare materials from the Judaica library and relate some of the fun-ny, sad, strange and unexpected 
acquisition and provenance sto-
ries associated with these special items. The talk is Wednesday at 2 p.m. in the Judaica Suite, 208 Smathers Library (inside the Grand Reading Room).
A Walk Through UF History
University Archivist Peggy 
McBride and University Historian 
Carl Van Ness will lead groups on a walking tour of the campus historic district and explain the history behind the buildings. The tour will end in Smathers Library where university artifacts will be on display. Meet under the colon-nade in front of Library West at 2 
p.m. Thursday.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. and keep it to 150 words or few-er. Press releases will not appear 
in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 67
HIGH  82° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
As graduation looms, UF seniors 
are ﬁ  nding that the best ways to con-
nect to the university are through the oldest traditions.
Logged at the end of each semes-
ter in students’ F Books, traditions are meant to unify students.  Many have been around for decades, said Avery Smith, the traditions keeper for the UF Cicerones.
“It’s designed to connect past, 
present and future Gators,” the 20-year-old philosophy and econom-ics junior said.
The F Book, which now docu-
ments students’ completed traditions with photographs and memorabilia, was ﬁ  rst given out to students at Preview in 2006, said Cicerone Anna Shao.
As graduation approaches, some 
UF seniors are working to complete at least 40 F-Book traditions in hopes 
of earning a medal to wear with their 
caps and gowns, Smith said.
While some student activities, 
like participating in the Gator Color Run and swimming in Lake Wau-burg, have become traditions in re-cent years, a few classics have stood the test of time.
“They unify students together 
through common experiences,” said Shao, a 21-year-old biochemistry se-nior.
On-Campus Life
When Laurel R-Love attended UF 
in the late 1970s, she called herself a dorm rat.
The UF poultry sciences alumna 
lived in Hume Hall for all four years of school — from 1976 to 1982.
Current students can log “on-
campus life” in their F Books. Living 
on campus is a 109-year-old tradi-
tion, with the ﬁ  rst UF dorms, Thom-as and Buckman Halls, opening in 1906. Back then, it cost only $2.50 a month to live in Buckman Hall, ac-cording to UF’s housing website.
R-Love said she fondly remem-
bered her time in the old Hume Hall, which closed in 2000. She was a 
resident assistant and participated in 
Mudfest every year, where residents play games in a giant mud pit.
Resident assistants like TehQuin 
Forbes still participate in Mud-fest, now held by Tolbert Hall. The 21-year-old UF sociology senior said the event is the longest-running housing tradition.
R-Love said despite not having an 
F Book, she still fostered on-campus friendships by throwing friends into Graham Pond on their birthdays.
Forbes said his friends don’t 
throw each other in the pond, but 
Hume RAs still celebrate birthdays. 
They give each other a handmade banner and loud knocks on their door at midnight.
“It’s important to keep up those 
traditions because it’s part of what builds up the UF housing commu-nity,” Forbes said.    
Painting the Wall
UF senior Grifﬁ  n Plattner hasn’t 
had the chance to paint the wall yet. But it’s on his bucket list.“That’s something I’ll look into,” 
the 22-year-old chemical engineering and business administration student said. “Maybe I’ll just go paint my 
name on there.”
Students have been painting the 
34th Street Wall since the 1970s. 
The 1,120-foot long wall is covered in more than 250 layers of paint, ac-cording to the Class of 2016 F Book.  
Today, students legally cover the 
wall in grafﬁ  ti and use it as a plat-form for advertising student organi-
zations. When R-Love went to UF, 
though, painting was not encour-aged. She said the wall was covered in mostly obscene grafﬁ  ti.
“It wasn’t a nice thing to do,” she 
said. “If campus police caught any-one doing it, they would be arrested, or at least escorted somewhere else.”
A Long-standing Meal
When Gilbert Nguyen, who grad-
uated in 1985, attended UF, Krishna Lunch was still free.
He said he would often go to the 
Plaza of the Americas to get the veg-
etarian curry-spiced lunches with 
his friends. While they would eat, Christian evangelist preachers would shout at students.
“You would also listen to some of 
the evangelists out there and make fun of them,” he said. “We would chant things at them.”
He said that instead of chanting 
“orange and blue,” students used to call out “oral and anal” in the hopes of eliciting a response from the preachers. But Nguyen still said he fondly remembers eating Krishna Lunch.
Among all the current F-Book tra-
ditions, Plattner, who is a Cicerone, wants to complete before he gradu-ates, Krishna Lunch is one he’s not 
worried about.
“Usually when I go, I’ll go with 
friends,” he said. “I know people 
that go almost every day.”
He said logging the traditions is 
one of the last things he wants to do before graduating this semester.
“I got to ﬁ  nish that up real quick,” 
he said. “I’m running out of time.”
Tailgating and Chomping
Maria Cauthorn and Jenna Bartol 
said they might wait until the last week to document their traditions.
“Honestly, I can see both of us 
doing that,” Cauthorn said. “We’re 
both procrastinators.”
But the 22-year-old UF industrial 
and systems engineering seniors said 
they know they have at least one tra-dition covered: They have photos at the football games.
UF has had a football team since 
its formation in 1906. The alligator was accepted as the ofﬁ  cial UF mas-cot in 1911, and the team was nick-named the “Gators,” according to UF Registrar’s website.
Now, fans take over campus on gamedays to partake in the tailgating 
traditions, where students eat barbe-
cue, play beer pong and throw foot-balls. Even when the Gators didn’t have a winning season, UF engineer-ing alumnus Ray Smets said alumni and students still enjoyed the games.
Smets, who graduated from UF 
in 1986, said he was in the stadium when the iconic Gator Chomp was ﬁ  rst introduced.
“Everybody was looking at each 
other thinking, ‘This is kind of silly,’” Smets said. “Literally the cheerlead-ers had to teach us how to chomp.”
Smets said that back then, stu-
dents would leave the games to run to the Purple Porpoise bar on Univer-sity Avenue during halftime. They’d down a few beers before returning.
Smets loved participating in UF 
traditions when he was vice presi-dent of the Cicerones. Now, he said he attends Gator football-watching parties in San Francisco, where his friends all sing the same songs they sang as students in the Swamp.
“Students are students; they 
haven’t changed,” he said.UF traditions hold strong for decades
Students to inish F Book
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gator fans tailgate just east of Turlington Plaza prior to 
Florida’s 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Sept. 5.This year, Graduate Assistants 
United, the labor union that repre-
sents UF graduate assistants, has proposed various changes to UF’s chief negotiator Bill Connellan to 
increase graduate assistant salaries 
and decrease fees for students living in poverty. Every proposal has been rejected.
But Popescu still considers herself 
fortunate — she’s healthy and un-
married. 
She said she can’t imagine how 
she’d manage if she became ill. If 
she were paid more, she said she’d use the extra money to fix cosmetic damage to her car from a recent acci-dent. She’d also like to visit a dentist 
and an optometrist. She hasn’t seen 
either in years.
Popescu grades papers, works as 
a teaching assistant, attends classes and works with students. Her biggest challenge is fitting that all into the 20 hours per week she works.
Funk said graduate assistants do 
“anything and everything under the sun here.”
“In fact, the university could not 
function without us,” the 33-year-old said.
Funk is a member of GAU’s bar-
gaining team, and he said he fights for changes to employment contracts. 
He said he recognizes UF’s budget 
is tight, but to him, it means graduate assistants are needed more than ever. Funk also said he is in favor of UF’s preeminence plan. The better ranked a university is, the more likely gradu-ate assistants will later find academic employment.
“At some point they’re going to 
realize that we are an integral part of 
this institution, and they can’t raise 
the profile of this university without bringing us along with them,” he said.    
Living in poverty
Popescu has applied for food 
stamps, but she doesn’t qualify be-cause she’s an international student.
She can’t work more than 20 
hours per week. She doesn’t qualify 
for a federal loan.
“The money is what it is and 
there’s no way to get more,” she said.
But Connellan said he doesn’t 
believe graduate assistants are living 
in poverty. The federal poverty level — $11,770 per individual, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services — is based on a 40-
hour work week, he said.
Because graduate assistants mak-
ing the minimum stipend are being paid for working 10 to 20 hours per week, they can’t be considered to be 
living in poverty, he said.
Ioannis Ziogas, a UF political sci-
ence doctoral student and the GAU bargaining chair, said the problem isn’t about how many hours gradu-ate assistants work, but rather the inequality in their pay.   
Some graduate assistants working 
10 hours per week receive the mini-mum salary — $6,500 a year — while others working the same amount can earn about $20,000.
Ziogas, 35, said the bargaining 
team’s main goal is to shorten the wage gap among graduate assistants.
UF Provost Joseph Glover said he 
recognizes some graduate assistants 
are not paid as much as they should 
be, but he doesn’t agree with GAU’s proposals.
“Their position is they want a lot 
of weight for people on the lower end,” he said. “We think that would be unfair to the people who are work-ing hard, who are at the higher end of the pay scale.”
To get their point across, GAU 
delivered a basket to Glover filled with items to show what graduate assistants can’t afford to buy with the $720 in fees they pay per semester, such as grocery bills, a bra, a condom and diapers.
Glover said he understood the 
basket was a sign of frustration from 
GAU, but it did nothing to change his 
position.
“I regarded it more as a piece of 
performance art than anything else,” he said.  
The basket now sits in Connel-
lan’s office. He said it was irrelevant and will not affect his position either.
“They’re very convinced of their 
position, and I’m not convinced of their position,” Connellan said. “That’s the crux of it.”
Tug of war
When GAU and Connellan began 
negotiating graduate assistant sala-ries and fees at the end of August, Ziogas said GAU members were op-timistic.
“There was this aura of, ‘Let’s 
work together. We can do this,’” he said.
GAU’s first proposal tied gradu-
ate student fees to graduate assistant salaries, making them proportional, Ziogas said. They didn’t ask for sal-ary raises.
Connellan came back after about 
a month of discussions and said the proposal would cost UF too much, but he still seemed willing to work out an agreement, Ziogas said.
In October, after many informal 
meetings and phone calls to rework the numbers, Connellan said he couldn’t accept any aspect of GAU’s proposal.
“That kind of took us aback,” Zio-
gas said. “We didn’t understand why we had gone through all this effort.”
Then the back and forth began.Both UF’s and GAU’s initial pro-
posals were met with negative reac-tions from each side.
UF proposed a 2-percent salary 
raise and a $100 fee relief. Connellan 
said this is the most he could give.
But that’s still not good enough 
for GAU, Ziogas said. UF’s propos-
al would give more money to the graduate assistants making the most money. GAU came back with two proposals that combined aspects of UF’s and GAU’s previous proposals.
Both were rejected.
Then GAU took a new approach. 
In their proposal, the group looked at 
all the money UF works with to give raises and fee reliefs — $1.9 million — and divided it evenly among the total nearly 4,000 graduate assistants.
This amounts to about $500 per 
graduate assistant. GAU proposed everyone get a $400 raise and a $50 fee relief. Those making less than $14,300 a year will receive an extra $50.
Connellan rejected this proposal, 
too, saying those at the bottom are receiving larger percentage raises 
than those at the top.
“They’re talking absolute dollar 
terms,” Connellan said. “We’re talk-
ing percentages.”
Ziogas said he doesn’t want to talk percentages.
“Percentages don’t put food on 
the table,” he said.
The overlooked
Mary Roca hates when Connellan 
singles out the English department.
The UF English doctoral student 
said he does it often, and she feels like he values science-related depart-
ments over departments focused on 
the humanities.
Connellan said he doesn’t think 
one department contributes more to UF than another. It just costs more to hire some graduate assistants, like those in engineering, than others, like those in the English department.
Roca, 25, said English graduate 
assistant stipends tend to be on the lower end of the spectrum.
“The people who come to the 
University of Florida for the English department do not come because of the stipends,” she said. “They come 
because we have really great fac-
ulty.”
Roca said English graduate as-
sistants are supposed to work about 15 hours per week, but she said she spends about 25 hours a week prep-ping for class, teaching, grading and meeting students. She’s still taking classes for her Ph.D., which requires 
five to 10 hours of reading a week.
Roca said about 100 English grad-
uate assistants teach lower-division 
English courses. Some of the courses are required for undergraduates.
Roca received her bachelor’s de-
gree in English from UF, and she said the transition from an undergraduate to a graduate student has been disil-lusioning.
“It’s a very crushing reality to 
realize that the university does not prioritize us even when they benefit from our labor,” she said.  
Still hopeful
Popescu doesn’t regret her deci-
sion to come to UF.
Although money is tight, she said 
teaching undergraduate students is worth it. She enjoys helping them 
discover their passions. But she said 
she still wishes UF administrators would understand the stress of living paycheck to paycheck.
“It’s difficult to give your students 
your full attention and be really up-lifting and excited about what you’re teaching when you have all these struggles in the back of your head,” 
she said.
She doesn’t believe graduate as-
sistants will see much improvement 
in their salaries and fees this year, but she said she’s hopeful for change next year.
Connellan said he’s sticking to 
his proposal: the 2-percent raise and $100 fee relief. He’s hoping an agree-ment can be made soon, or else UF or GAU would have to declare impasse. And he doesn’t want that to happen.
“That’s fairly time consuming,” 
he said.
Funk said he thinks Connellan 
will realize there are graduate assis-tants who are vital to UF and are liv-ing in poverty.
“I think he’s going to see the 
light,” Funk said.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
SANTA FE
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rita Revak-Lutz spends her free time mak-
ing earrings.
On Monday, the Santa Fe College nursing 
professor pulled about 150 pairs of earrings out of her back room for a holiday earring sale 
outside the food court at Santa Fe. She held 
the sale, which ends today, to raise money for the Santa Fe Nursing Student Association.
“I had to do something with them, and I thought it would be a great way to fund the NSA,” said Revak-Lutz, who used to be the club’s faculty adviser.
It was the first time she sold earrings out-
side of her Etsy shop, EarBobbles, on behalf of the club, and she is selling both holiday-themed and everyday earrings. Prices range 
from $8 to $13 specifically to fit a student 
budget, Revak-Lutz said, and they will be sold today from noon until 2 p.m. in the same loca-tion.
Caroline Lewis, a 21-year-old Santa Fe nurs-ing senior, said the club hopes to raise about $400 over the course of two days. About 40 pairs were sold Monday, but Revak-Lutz could not specify how much money was earned.
She said half of the proceeds will go to the 
NSA annual convention held in Orlando at the end of March. Typically, six to 10 students 
travel to the convention and pay $250 each to 
go.
“Our main goal is to send a good portion 
of the club to the conference this year,” said Tyler Welz, a 22-year-old club member. Despite working 24 hours a week, the Santa 
Fe nursing senior said he might not be able to go to the conference without the fundraising.
The remaining proceeds will go toward 
the student emergency fund, which is set up for nursing students who have trouble paying their housing bills and tuition.
“We have students that, while they’re in 
the program, run into financial difficulties,” Revak-Lutz said. “As faculty, we want them to stay in the program.”
Santa Fe professor sells earrings for nursing association
Alligator File Photo
Diana Moreno, a 27-year-old Latin American studies master’s candidate and chief coordinator of Graduate 
Assistants United, speaks at the GAU “Spring Broke” rally on Turlington Plaza on March 15.
SALERY,  from pg1Proposals were rejectedTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
UF Student Government wants to show 
students that not all mental health struggles 
can be seen.
Starting today, the SG Health Affairs Cabi-
net is hosting Not All Wounds Are Visible, SG’s ﬁ  rst Mental Health Awareness Week. SG will host events throughout the week 
to showcase different mental health issues 
students face and the resources available to them.
Rachna Sannegowda, the Health Affairs 
Cabinet director, said it took two months to 
organize the campaign. Some students might 
see mental disorders as something that is in their heads, the 19-year-old said.
“This was important for the university to 
host to break that stigma,” she said.
During a cabinet presentation Monday 
night to SG ofﬁ  cials, the cabinet presented statistics about mental health.
One in four college students experiences 
mental health issues, according to the pre-sentation. Suicide is the second-highest cause of death in 15-to 24-year-olds, with 1,000 sui-cides on college campuses every year.
Lucas Zhou, a UF information systems 
freshman, said the week will educate the Stu-dent Body on mental health issues.
He said with ﬁ  nals coming up, students 
will be more stressed.
“I think it’s perfect timing,” the 18-year-
old said.SG hosts ﬁ  rst mental Health Awareness Week to break stigma
Tuesday
Gators Chomp the Stigma
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Turlington Plaza
T otally Cool or T aboo?: Multicultural 
Perspectives on Mental Health
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Ballroom 
Salon D and H
Wednesday
Helping Hands for Gators
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the 
Plaza of the AmericasThursday
Stress Free with SG
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Turlington Plaza
Turning on the Light: Mental 
Health Resources Panel
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Ballroom 
Salon A, B, E and F
Friday
Continuing the Fight
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Turlington PlazaAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
STUDYING FOR FINALS
Lisa Ly, a 19-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology sophomore, studies for her chemistry 
class outside Leigh Hall on Monday afternoon. Ly said she likes studying outside to get away from distractions. “In order to be effective, I need to be out and about, ” she said.
Mental Health Awareness Week eventsHE WAS ARRESTED 
MONDAY MORNING.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHICAGO — Federal authori-
ties said an online threat that led 
the University of Chicago to can-cel classes Monday targeted whites and was motivated by the police 
shooting of a black teenager, a vid-
eo of which was released last week and led to protests.
Jabari R. Dean, 21, of Chicago, 
threatened to kill 16 white male students or staff at the school on Chicago’s South Side, according to the criminal complaint.
Dean, who is black, was arrest-
ed Monday morning. He did not enter a plea later in the day on a charge of transmitting a threat in interstate commerce in court.
The threat was posted Saturday, 
just days after the city released a video of Ofﬁ  cer Jason Van Dyke, who is white, shooting 17-year-old Laquan McDonald, who was black, 16 times. Van Dyke is charged with ﬁ  rst-degree murder. His bond was set for $1.5 million earlier Mon-day, and hours later, he paid the 
$150,000 needed and was released.
Authorities said Dean posted 
online from a phone that he would 
“execute approximately ... 16 white male students and or staff, which is the same number of time (sic) McDonald was killed” and “will die killing any number of white policemen that I can in the 
process.”Police shooting of black 
teen cited in threatThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
A tale of two Thanksgivings: food insecurity in the US
With Thanksgiving now in the rearview 
mirror and the weight of ﬁ  nals loom-ing heavily over us all, we students will likely degrade into a cluster of anxiety as opposed to reminiscing 
fondly on this past holiday.
But this piece isn’t about the bountiful feasts, 
warm homes and lazy mornings from which many of us have returned. This piece is about the families who didn’t have a Thanksgiving.
Now, before you react with, “Oh great, an-
other article to remind me of all the starving people from — insert third-world country here — and how I should better appreciate what I have,” consider this: All we’re going to do 
is engage a much-needed conversation about food insecurity, 
a euphemism for hunger or inaccessibility to proper nutri-tion, in America. Here we go.
In 2013, 49.1 percent of Americans lived in food-insecure 
households, and in 2014, one in ﬁ  ve U.S. children relied on food stamps for nutrition.
As if this couldn’t get any more depressing, the holiday 
seasons are known to be particularly hard on food-insecure families. Cooler days mean higher heating bills, and the 
break from school means kids are at home full-time and un-
able to access free school breakfasts and reduced lunches.
One might ask: How did we get here? The economy is by 
and large improving. What gives? The answer: funding and welfare reform.
In 2010, Congress cut $2.2 billion from the Supplemen-
tal Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps) in order to fund Michelle Obama’s campaign for healthy school lunches, which served as a bandage rather than a holistic solution. 
Furthermore, in 2014, under pressure to increase farm subsi-
dies, the Obama administration signed off on an $8.7 billion cut over 10 years to SNAP programs after already committing to a $5 billion cut in 2013.
In concert with these funding cuts is Newt Gingrich’s 
1996 Welfare Reform Act, which calls for a three-month time limit for an unemployed individual to ﬁ  nd work before his or her SNAP beneﬁ  ts are removed.In times of high unemployment, such as after 
the 2008 Great Recession, states can waive the three-month time limit, which is why the reform act wasn’t much of an issue before. But now that unemployment is at 5.5 percent, many states are 
moving to drop the waiver, which will put an es-
timated one million Americans at risk of losing all SNAP beneﬁ  ts by the end of 2016.
You may ﬁ  nd yourself scratching your head, 
as I did, thinking, “How can food insecurity be on the rise while unemployment falls?”
Well, the falling unemployment rate fails to account for 
those who are severely underemployed or those who have given up their job hunt because of a lack of education, expe-
rience and accessibility to job-training programs.
In a sort of dark, twisted fantasy, we’ve proven more 
successful in ﬁ  ghting a war on poor people than a war on 
poverty.
In the end, those left to carry the weight are food banks 
and local charities. According to an August 2015 Associated Press report, food pantry groups reported a stark increase in demand for food this year compared to last year, and this holiday season will only exacerbate the need of food-inse-
cure homes.
So, we can all sit around and hope Congress will resup-
ply SNAP funding or amend the Welfare Reform Act’s three-
month time limit on SNAP beneﬁ  ts for the unemployed, but let’s be real: Neither will happen anytime soon.
What we in the Gainesville area can do is act collectively, 
in small feats, to aid our own food-insecure and homeless. So, in these last two and a half weeks before students turn this place into a ghost town again, take a moment to reach 
out to groups like the St. Francis House and ask what you 
can do to help.
What’s a few short minutes for a good deed? In my esti-
mation, it’s a small price to pay for working toward a life less frightening for others.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.After yet 
another shooting, 
it’s time to decry 
extremist rhetoric
This editorial isn’t going to be about the need for greater gun control, seeing as it is redundant, worn and torn territory. You, the readers, already know the details: a white, male gunman on the fringes of society. A speciﬁ  cally chosen lo-cation. Innocent lives lost and wounded. A mass shooting 
in Colorado. 
What separates this editorial from others of its ilk is a degree 
of clarity. For the ﬁ  rst time in a while, the motivations behind the Planned Parenthood outburst of American terrorism can be tied directly back to a speciﬁ  c source of inspiration. As widely reported, the gunman muttered “no more baby parts” after surrendering to police ofﬁ  cers.
It is likely the gunman’s comments — and, thereby, his motiva-
tion for the shooting — were derived from videos released earlier 
this year that purportedly showed a Planned Parenthood executive 
talking about selling aborted fetus tissue for proﬁ  t. This, of course, turned out to be false. Investigations by several independent agen-cies found that the videos, released by the anti-abortion group Center for Medical Progress, had been heavily edited and omitted phrases that veriﬁ  ed what many have known all along: Like other medical facilities, Planned Parenthood donates body tissue for sci-entiﬁ  c research, and the only costs involved are those concerning transportation and preservation. This is not done for a proﬁ  t and 
has the full consent and knowledge of the women involved.
Although the contentious issue at the heart of these videos has 
been thoroughly debunked time and again, the idea persists that 
Planned Parenthood — which must be noted is well within its legal rights to provide abortions, as well as the countless other health services offered to men and women — is an evil, immoral, de-liberately anti-Christian institution proﬁ  ting off our nation’s dead babies. Because the moral crusaders and panderers of the right have never been ones to let pesky facts and legal precedents stand 
in the way of their pursuits to completely regulate women’s bodies, 
the videos have remained a key component of the ill-thought-out testimony against Planned Parenthood.
And so, here we are. After many months of debating, commit-
tees and hearings, the deceptive rhetoric of these videos has helped justify one man’s decision to murder others. In the days since the attack, most GOP presidential candidates have either remained si-lent on the issue or distanced themselves from the connections between the values they espouse and those of the shooter (Mike 
Huckabee excluded).
Sen. Ted Cruz described the attacker as a “transgendered leftist 
activist.” That seems to be at odds with the description provided by 
the wife of the shooter, who described him as a “generally conser-vative” man who “believed wholeheartedly in the Bible,” but sure, why not? In a move demonstrating no less tact than that of Cruz, Carly Fiorina equated the shooter to a “protester,” and dismissed any connections between the attack and the rhetoric of the right as “typical left-wing tactics.”
For a party that routinely calls on an entire religion to decry 
the horriﬁ  c actions of a fringe faction that terrorizes others under the pretense of shared ideals, Republican politicians seem awfully reluctant to practice what they preach. If we are to truly believe the GOP represents those who are “pro-life,” even the most minus-cule of ideological concessions is in order. Until then, we remain skeptical.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
As we all reveled in 
Thanksgiving Break by taking endless pictures 
of our dogs, skillfully 
dodging questions about 
our futures and binging on relax-ation, something else loomed emi-
nent on the horizon. Interspersed 
among social media proclamations of being #thankful were posts of a much different nature. It was “FSU Hate Week,” and there was no escape.
Whether it involved digging up some 
good ol’ fashioned Jameis Winston jokes or simply voicing unadulterated animosity, these posts, tweets and snapchats contrib-
uted to the weeklong hype session that tra-
ditionally precedes the UF vs. Florida State University football game. Yet, underlying the game and social media smack talk was something much more pervasive: an unceas-
ing rivalry that has stood the test of time.
Our rivalry with FSU is one of those spe-
cial types of conﬂ  icts where everyone has 
forgotten how it started yet continues to stay 
angry for the sake of consistency. I’ve never 
truly understood the purpose of rivalries — possibly because every other school I’ve at-tended was too small and irrelevant to even warrant one — but something about the UF/
FSU rivalry has fascinated me over the last 
few years.
Perhaps it has to do with the rivalry’s 
spectrum of manifestations, spanning from 
harmless proclamations of “Noles/Gators 
suck!” on gameday to perpetual hatred for anything and everything associated with the enemy school. One friend was taught not to eat orange and blue M&Ms growing up, 
while another burned Gator memorabilia in 
a symbolic ﬁ  re after she received her accep-tance to FSU. We all have our thing.
As a naïve freshman, I spent the majority 
of my ﬁ  rst trip to FSU genuinely concerned about how I would be received by my sup-posed enemies. Yet, as I stood in a crowd-ed Tallahassee bar with “F--- UF” scrawled across the walls, I was pleasantly surprised 
by several deviations of “Oh, you go to UF? 
That’s awesome, it’s such a great school.”
In reality, it seems as though the students 
at both universities are the most tolerant 
participants of the rivalry, perhaps because (gasp) we acknowledge we’re 
the same after all. As I said in a previous column, we’re all just 
trying to get good grades, make 
some friends, graduate on time and not screw up too badly in the process. Despite my unceasing 
love for Gainesville and UF, I still 
believe if I had ended up in Tal-lahassee, I would’ve loved it just the same. The college experience 
is a nuanced concept, making it impossible 
to accurately declare one school subjectively 
better than the other. But that doesn’t mean we won’t try.
FSU Hate Week is a magical time where 
you can be a complete asshole, abandon all 
objectivity and get away with it in the name 
of school pride. In an age when universities are dominated by a politically correct cul-ture, it’s amazing something like this still exists. It’s apparent the only reason FSU 
Hate Week is acceptable is because nearly 
everyone involved realizes it’s harmless fun, a manifestation of school spirit and, above all, a tradition. As long as the animosity is 
contained to one week, I see no harm and 
think this time-honored institution should be protected.
With 51 weeks to go until next year’s 
rivalry game, you have plenty of time to 
drown your post-game sorrows and think 
of some perfectly devastating FSU roasts for next year. But until then, let’s remember our similarities drastically outweigh our differ-
ences and we ought to not to let a harmless 
rivalry get the best of us.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.FSU Hate Week: beloved, but not PCColumn
The possibility of success-
fully navigating an aster-oid ﬁ  eld is approximately 3,720 to 1. The odds of an American being killed in 
a terrorist attack (including ter-rorist attacks carried out over-seas) are 1 in 20 million. C-3PO enlightened us with the former cosmic fact in 1980, while The Washington Post gave us the lat-ter just two years ago. Despite the data, more than most on the campaign trail, in-cluding plenty who hold power in Wash-
ington, D.C., vie for further increases in 
discretionary spending for defense and cite the threat of terrorism (speciﬁ  cally attacks carried out by radical jihadists) as the pri-mary reason for this necessity.
But, while the threat of terrorism is ob-
viously necessary to combat both at home and abroad, only almost 11 percent of the defense budget goes to operations against 
terrorism. The bulk of this percentage con-
centrates mostly on efforts in Afghanistan, “on training, advising, and assisting the Afghan forces and carrying out counterter-rorism operations against the remnants of al Qaeda in coordination with Afghan forc-es,” according to Pentagon budget writers. That’s $55 billion in preventing and bat-tling a very speciﬁ  c terrorism that we, as 
Americans, have grown accustomed to in 
improperly labeling as the biggest threat to our national security: Big and Scary Radi-cal Islam.
A quick look at the numbers on domes-
tic terrorism, as well as a recap of a 2015 marred by deadly politically and racially motivated assaults and school shootings, paints a picture very different from the nar-
rative that says the future of America is 
threatened primarily by radical Islam.
There have been 26 terrorist attacks 
since 9/11. Of these, 19 were executed by non-Muslims. Additionally, almost twice as many people have died in attacks carried out by right-wing extremists than in Mus-lim extremist attacks.
So why is the bigger and more frequent 
right-wing terrorism taking a back seat to an overemphasis on Muslim extremism?
It seems, for the time being, it behooves 
many in the GOP — like the incorrectly la-beled conservative Marco Rubio — to keep American eyes glued to the far less understood and more feared terrorist threat, as this exposure helps ensure they ﬁ  nd little to no resistance in seeking the increase 
in military spending they seek to 
“battle terrorism.”
Couple this truth with the ve-
hement exposure terrorist attacks carried out by Islamic zealots receives, and it’s easy to under-
stand why so many Americans thought-lessly subscribe to the notion that an evil Middle East poses an immediate threat to 
their very existence.
Robert Lewis Dear's and Dylann Roof’s 
attacks were nothing short of terrorism. 
Still, many Americans and those in Con-gress refuse to acknowledge this truth, knowing what is required to battle the most potent forms of terrorism here in the U.S. are not drone strikes or state-of-the-art ﬁ  ghter jets, but comprehensive measures 
like gun control and long term solutions 
like a sincere focus on education.
Our most severe threats are not from 
armed extremists, but from ignorance. Our ignorant focus on radical Islam keeps us not only unable to see other instances of non-Muslim terrorism, but also myopic to the gravest threat of our generation: climate change. And while we should be looking to 
the stars and allocating resources toward 
renewable energy and interplanetary en-deavors, we instead continue with the in-cessant ﬂ  ow of funds to stealth bombers and warships, all under the false pretense of combating the greatest evil that isn’t.
The assault on a Planned Parenthood 
clinic in Colorado Springs this past Friday took the lives of three Americans: a uni-
versity police ofﬁ  cer, a mother of two and 
a veteran of the Iraq War. That Ke’Arre Stewart should survive one of the grav-est travesties of American foreign policy — which, it should be noted, birthed the most successful and feared faction of radi-cal Sunni Islam, that enemy we have sworn to ﬁ  ght — only to come home and be shot in an act of domestic terrorism is a pitiful 
irony. This is not only an injustice to veter-
ans, but also to America herself.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe College 
journalism junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.Domestic terrorism is more frightening 
than anything from the Middle EastColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
“It’s apparent the only 
reason FSU Hate W eek 
is acceptable is because 
nearly everyone involved 
realizes it’s harmless fun, 
a manifestation of school 
spirit and, above all, a 
tradition.”TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
When UF President Kent Fuchs 
introduced himself to students on 
Monday, he said, “Hi, I’m Kent.”
UF art sophomore Sydney Mar-
tin said Fuchs’ introduction left an impression on her. By using his first name, he showed he was ap-
proachable.
“I like that he’s so involved in 
the Student Body and tries really 
hard to reach out to students,” the 19-year-old said.
On the Reitz Union North 
Lawn, students like Martin cel-ebrated Fuchs’ official presidential inauguration by posing for photos 
with him and his wife, who both 
spoke with students. The event was part of this week’s inaugura-tion festivities.
It was the only inauguration event planned specifically for stu-dents, said UF Student Body Presi-dent Joselin Padron-Rasines.
Students in backpacks and blue 
jeans chatted as they ate burgers 
and cookies with the UF seal on 
them. 
Albert and Alberta roamed 
around the orange-and-blue 
dressed tables and took selfies 
with attendees.
Fuchs said he has been looking 
forward to this event for a long 
time.
“I love the fact that we’re start-
ing with the students,” he said.
After about an hour of talking with people and smiling for pho-
tos, Fuchs said he wasn’t tired.
“This week is one of celebrat-
ing the university, not the new 
president,” he said. “You need en-
ergy for that.”
Fuchs’ wife, Linda, stood by 
her husband and shook hands with students. 
“I’m delighted to have an op-
portunity to connect with the stu-dents,” she said.
Padron-Rasines helped set up 
the event and said she enjoyed seeing students’ reactions to meet-ing Fuchs.
“My favorite part about this is 
giving students the opportunity to 
meet him,” she said.
UF junior and Chinese major 
Jordan Silvers said Fuchs remind-
ed him of a goofy dad. 
He said he thinks students can 
relate to Fuchs because he makes the effort to get to know them.
“He makes the time to come 
out here, which says a lot,” the 
22-year-old said.First UF president inauguration event
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
In one of the last greenhouses behind Fi-
ﬁ  eld Hall on Hull Road there are 6,000 poin-
settias.
On Monday, about 30 people came by the 
greenhouse to view these poinsettias during 
a showcase hosted by the UF College of Ag-
ricultural and Life Sciences and the UF Envi-ronmental Horticulture Club. The greenhouse tour, which precedes the club’s poinsettia sale Dec. 10 and 11, was also an event during UF President Kent Fuchs’ inauguration week.
While Fuchs and his wife, Linda, attended 
the event, they did not order any poinsettias. However, Quincy Kolp, the Environmental 
Horticulture Club president, said Linda told 
the club she would order some next week.
The showcase serves as an opportunity for 
people to look at the approximately 150 va-rieties of poinsettias. Kolp said the club has been growing the plants since July. The sale is the largest student-run poinsettia sale in the 
country.
“We have put a lot of effort into growing 
these plants,” Kolp said.
The 21-year-old UF plant science junior 
said the club raised more than $75,000 last 
year, and the money raised this year will go toward funding the club’s trip to Ireland. The poinsettias cost between $10 and $40, de-pending on the variety.
“This is an invitation for people to have a 
behind-the-scenes look at what’s being done to prepare for next week’s plant sale,” said James Barrett, a professor emeritus and the faculty adviser for the club.
Kolp said poinsettias not sold next week 
will be donated to local nursing homes and the Ronald McDonald House.Flower Power
By Courtney Grisby
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and members of the commu-
nity smiled when they saw the original Super-man comic book Monday.
The UF Smathers Libraries celebrated UF 
President Kent Fuchs’ inauguration with their 
ﬁ  rst of three talks this week. Library Popular 
Culture Curator James Liversidge led the dis-cussion, which served to showcase the librar-ies’ large popular culture collection.
During the talk, Liversidge showed about 
20 attendees, including Fuchs, items that were a part of the libraries’ popular culture section, which includes ﬁ  lms, comic books and costume sketches that impacted a large 
number of people during a particular era.  
Liversidge also shared the original “Super-
man” comic book prototype from 1934.
“Superman was a villain,” Liversidge said of the book, “which kind of parallel with what 
was going on in Europe with Adolf Hitler.”
UF wildlife ecology and conservation 
alumna and Smathers Libraries assistant Al-exandria Warwick, who attended the talk, said they liked seeing how popular culture changed through the decades.   
“I think seeing a physical object cements 
the idea that popular culture was a large part of history and it’s interesting to see how ad-vanced things were back then and how far popular culture has come,” Warwick said.
Liversidge said even though students live 
in a digital age, he thinks they still want to see hard-copy information.
“There is something about holding a piece 
of history that is very exciting,” he said.  
There will also be curator talks today and 
Wednesday from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Ju-daica Suite.Cultural Connection
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
George Grant (left), a 22-year-old UF environmental horticulture graduate student, talks about the effort put into growing the plants with UF President Kent Fuchs during 
the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences’ greenhouse tour on Monday.
It was planned for students
“I like that he’s so involved in 
the Student Body and tries 
really hard to reach out to 
students.”
Sydney Martin
UF art sophomore
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kimberlie Vera (left), an 18-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation freshman, and Delaney Woodworth, a 19-year-old UF psychology freshman, grab lunch during UF President Fuchs’ inauguration student event on the Reitz Union North Lawn. Vera and Woodworth planned matching outﬁ  ts for their photo with Fuchs.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Students mingle and eat on the Reitz Union North Lawn during the Inauguration Week event where students were invited to eat free food, play games and meet UF President Kent Fuchs on Monday UF CALS displays locally renowned 
poinsettias at inauguration event
FAR LEFT:
While at the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences’ greenhouse tour on Monday, 22-year-old UF plant science junior Carly Anderson and UF President Kent Fuchs discuss the variety of poinsettias available at the greenhouse.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
LEFT:
Marc Wissel, a 19-year-old UF plant science sophomore, shares information regarding the upcoming poinsettia plant sale at the UF Environmental Horticulture Club’s greenhouse on Monday. “We encourage club members to work at the greenhouse through our annual international trip, ” said Wissel. The club plans to go to Ireland.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
12-9-15-17-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-
en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l 
fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    
12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo 
$350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!" Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
COORDINATOR, friendly solo healthcare prac-tice. 10-14 hrs/wk. $11-14/hr. Pt. contact, records, accounts, HIPAA, ICD10 billing, scheduling, orga-nization/filing, phones, referrals. Non-smo.w/car. Spanish a+. FAX resume: 352-377-3193.    12-4-15-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled $8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     1-8-15-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's 
basketball team and coach Amanda Butler are on the road to face South Alabama tonight at 8. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. FLORIDA HASN'T PLAYED IN THE 
TITLE GAME SINCE 2009. 
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Saturday’s Southeastern Conference 
Championship Game is the most concrete 
evidence to date that the Gators have re-
turned to the national spotlight sooner 
than anyone could have anticipated. 
Even though they aren't competing for 
a national championship or a spot in the 
College Football Playoff, coach Jim McEl-wain has the Gators on track to becoming a mainstay in the top-10. 
Despite a tough 27-2 loss to rival Florida 
State on Saturday that deﬂ  ated the momen-tum of a resurgent season, the Gators are arguably stronger than they were in 2012 under former coach Will Muschamp.
UF went 11-1 that year in the regular 
season, but missed out on competing in the SEC Championship game due to Geor-gia winning the matchup between the two 
teams which subsequently decided a tie-
breaker in the Eastern division.
More than a day removed from de-
feat, McElwain said Monday the Gators 
shouldn’t hang their heads, considering 
how much the team accomplished in what most considered to be a rebuilding season in Gainesville.
“We’ve got a long ways to go as an or-
ganization and a program, and yet the mo-mentum this team has built is something everybody should be proud of,” McElwain 
said. 
“I am so proud of our players and all the people in our organization, from the 
administration on down that have commit-ted to a higher standard and a higher level of expectation and it’s been great.”Quick to credit Alabama coach Nick 
Saban for his rise up the coaching ranks, McElwain is aware of the accelerated re-generation the program has gone through in less than a year. 
Unsatisﬁ  ed with a slow and gradual 
build, the Missoula, Montana, native wants 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Reed headlines Gators in the NFL
Former Florida tight end Jordan Reed led all former Gators in Week 12 of 
NFL competition, finishing with 98 receiving yards in Washington's 20-14 win over the New York Giants on Sunday. Safety Reggie Nelson had his NFL -leading sixth interception in Cincinnati's 31-7 win over St. Louis. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks out of the tunnel prior to Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
McElwain, who coached at Alabama, is preparing the Gators to face the Crimson Tide in the SEC Championship Game. 
SEC Championship Game asserts UF's return to relevance
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
While Vermont and Florida Gulf Coast, 
whom Florida defeated Wednesday and Fri-
day respectively, put up solid ﬁ  rst half ﬁ  ghts, they aren’t exactly offensive juggernauts.
Now, the Gators (5-1) are preparing for a 
tough December schedule before conference play begins that will put Florida’s defense to the test. 
That schedule begins tonight with Rich-
mond.
Florida hosts the Spiders (4-2) in the 
O’Connell Center tonight at 7 in what coach Mike White called a tough test for his Gators team. 
On Sunday, White compared Richmond to the Purdue team that beat Florida 85-70 on Nov. 22, a team that can hurt you offensively 
from anywhere on the ﬂ  oor. 
Those 85 points are the most Florida has 
surrendered so far this season. 
Besides that loss, the Gators have limited 
opponents to just 54 points per game. White 
doesn’t want tonight’s score to be another sta-tistic outlier.
“They have a bunch of guys that can make 
threes. They’re averaging 86 points a game, 
they’re really good offensively, one of the bet-
ter teams in the country offensively,” White said of Richmond. 
“They’re just a handful offensively.”The Spiders are coming off a 94-90 win 
over No. 14 California on Friday night in Las Vegas. Spiders could be 'a handful' 
for Florida men's basketballJUST SOME HACK
On Saturday, Florida 
will play Alabama in the Southeastern Con-
ference Championship 
Game, a contest even 
the most optimistic of Gator fans couldn’t have dreamed of 
being in for at least another two 
years.
It’s easy to forget with how 
quickly expectations change in college football, but this was a program that had 
gone 11-13 in the last two seasons and was 
expected to ﬁ  nish in the middle of the mid-dling SEC East.
If told Florida would get eight wins in 
2015 back in August, most fans would have taken it and run fearing they had commit-ted highway robbery.But now, sitting at 10-2 
with an opportunity to play in the conference’s crown jewel 
game, it begs the question: 
How in the world did they get here?
Even UF coach Jim McEl-
wain believes that playing on a stage such as the one in the Georgia Dome on Saturday in 
year one is “something that I’m not sure anybody expected.”
It’s also something everybody should be 
stunned by.
Nick Saban took two years to take Ala-
bama to Atlanta for the ﬁ  rst time during 
his tenure, and he took the same amount 
of time to do so when he was the coach McElwain's turnaround is marvelous
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24With the regular season 
now in the rearview mirror, the No. 12 Gators (10-2) will head to Atlanta for a 
matchup against No. 2 Alabama (11-1) with the Southeastern Conference Championship on the line. 
Coach Jim McElwain has 
a tough task coaching against his mentor, Alabama coach Nick Saban, who McElwain served under as the offensive coordinator of the Crimson Tide from 2008-2011. Here’s a look at what McElwain and Co. will have to face come Saturday:
More than just Henry on offense:
The Crimson Tide have the No. 6 total of-
fense in the SEC and while running back Der-
rick Henry gets all the praise on Alabama’s offense — rightfully so, he leads the nation with 1,797 rushing yards and 22 touchdowns 
— quarterback Jake Coker is second in the 
SEC with a 65.4 percent completion percent-age. Coker’s favorite target is freshman wide receiver Calvin Ridley, who has 67 recep-tions for 791 yards and ﬁ  ve touchdowns. 
Ridley has become one of the most explo-
sive freshman wide receivers in the country and he’s drawn comparisons to former Ala-bama wide receiver Amari Cooper, who is 
now in the NFL with the Oakland Raiders. 
Of Ridley’s ﬁ  ve touchdown catches this 
year, four have gone for 30 yards or more. 
He does most of his damage on ﬁ  rst down 
as he has 36 receptions for 502 yards and 
three touchdowns.
A stout defense:  Saban and defensive coordinator Kirby Smart have another strong defense this year 
as Alabama ranks No. 1 in the 
conference in scoring defense (14.3 PPG), rush defense (78.9 YPG) total defense (264.6 YPG) and No. 5 in pass defense (185.7 YPG).  
Defensive linemen Jonathan 
Allen and A’Shawn Robinson anchor a line that has 41 sacks 
this season, good for third-most in the coun-try, and they’ve added 86 tackles for loss. 
The Crimson Tide defense is also stingy 
on third down, holding opponents to just a 29.57 conversion rate this year, which ranks eighth best in the nation. 
Special Teams:  Alabama kicker Adam 
Grifﬁ  th has been reliable this season as he’s made 19-of-26 ﬁ  eld goals this season. He’s also perfect on extra point attempts, going 48-for-48. Punter JK Scott is averaging 43.4 
yards per punt this season but only 13 of his 
51 punts have pinned opponents inside their 20-yard line. 
Punt returner Cyrus Jones is an X-factor 
on special teams as he leads the country with three punt returns for touchdowns.  
Player to watch:  Reggie Ragland is one 
of the best linebackers in the nation. Ragland leads Alabama with 90 tackles and he has 6.5 tackles for loss and 2.5 sacks. Ragland’s play hasn’t gone unnoticed this season, as 
he’s been named either a semiﬁ  nalist or ﬁ  -
nalist for four major defensive awards this season. 
The senior linebacker is a semiﬁ  nalist for 
the Lombardi Award and a ﬁ  nalist for the Nagurski, Bednarik and Butkus Awards.  By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
The Florida volleyball team is in 
familiar territory. 
For the 25th consecutive sea-
son, the Gators are playing in the NCAA tournament. 
Since coach Mary Wise took the 
helm of the program in 1991, the Gators haven’t missed the dance. 
During this span, Florida’s con-
sistent excellence has been nothing short of remarkable. 
The team has been the Goliath 
of the Southeastern Conference, winning an extraordinary 21 titles, 
including 18 straight from 1991-
2008. 
Even more impressive, the team 
lost just 10 conference games, in-cluding the now-disbanded SEC tournament, during those 18 years and had 11 seasons in which they were perfect in conference play. 
However, despite this run of 
success, the ultimate prize has consistently eluded the Gators: A national championship. 
Wise has led the Gators to the 
Final Four seven times. 
The closest the team has gotten 
to hoisting the championship tro-phy came in 2003, when they lost in the ﬁ  nal game to the University 
of Southern California. 
Entering the season, she was 
the third-winningest active coach in Division I volleyball, with an 
.845 career winning percentage 
and 823 total wins — 742 of which 
have come at Florida. 
But this season, the Gators have 
struggled more than usual. While their 22-6 overall record 
is impressive, the team went 13-5 
in the SEC. These ﬁ  ve losses in 
2015 alone total half of what the program lost from 1991-2008. 
One of Florida’s biggest strug-gles has been its inability to close out matches. 
Twice this season, Florida has 
let a 2-0 set lead slip through its grasp. Both matches were on the road — one at Missouri and the other at Texas A&M. 
The Gators are 0-5 in ﬁ  ve-set 
matches, a statistic that cannot go unnoticed. 
But now it is time to hit the re-
set button. 
No team is perfect, and the 
Gators are no exception. 
Florida will head into the NCAA 
tournament coming off a 3-0 win against LIU Brooklyn on Senior 
Day Friday, a victory that gave the 
team much-needed momentum. 
The 11th-seeded Gators open 
their ﬁ  rst-round action on Thurs-day when they take on New Hamp-shire at 7 p.m. 
If Florida advances, it will face 
the winner of Florida State vs. Ari-zona State on Friday.
But Wise is stressing to her team 
the importance of not overlooking any opponent. 
“All attention goes to our ﬁ  rst 
round opponent in New Hamp-shire,” she said.
Since Florida and New Hamp-
shire have not played this season, the game will provide an opportu-
nity for the Gators to play a team 
outside the conference with whom they are unfamiliar. 
And while the team has had 
its fair share of struggles, Wise’s goal was always to have the Gators playing their best volleyball in De-cember. 
The ultimate prize is still ahead 
of them. 14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
The UF volleyball team celebrates during Florida’s 3-0 win over Alabama on Nov. 13 in the O’Connell 
Center. The Gators face New Hampshire on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the NCAA T ournament. 
AP Photo
Alabama linebacker Reggie Ragland (19) and defensive back Marlon Humphrey (26) tackle LSU quarterback Brandon Harris in the Crimson Tide’s 30-16 win on Nov. 7. 
UF unsatisﬁ  ed with simply competing in NCAA Tournament
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIITORRES TELLS IT
A look at the opponent awaiting the Gators in Atlanta: the Alabama Crimson Tideat LSU.
Urban Meyer also needed two years to 
get Florida to the conference title game 
when he took over the program.
Those are two of the greatest coaches 
this sport has ever seen, and they’re with-
out a doubt the top two currently coaching.
But Jimmy Come Lately, McElwain from 
Montana reminded the media on Monday that he wasn’t out building Florida’s pro-gram this time last year, but rather checking to make sure he was awake. 
“You know guys it was about a year 
ago, maybe yesterday, I was first contacted about the opportunity and had to pinch myself,” McElwain recalled.
Twelve months later, it’s the Florida fans 
who need to pinch themselves.
Making SEC title games is hard.Making SEC title games with a first-year 
head coach in the conference? Almost im-
possible.
In fact, in the 24-year history of the 
game, only one other coach has pulled off 
the feat — Auburn’s Gus Malzahn in 2013.
Even more amazing: this team isn’t all that different from the ones before it.
The defense is relatively the same, with 
a few departures like defensive lineman Dante Fowler Jr. and linebacker Mike Tay-lor and only a few notable additions like de-
fensive lineman CeCe JeffersonThe offense should be worse, with a 
complete shakeup on the offensive line and the loss of running back Matt Jones and 
some veteran wide receivers.
And other than the emergence of wide 
receiver Antonio Callaway and tight end 
Jake McGee, there haven’t been any drastic 
differences since quarterback Will Grier’s suspension.
Yet here they are, preparing to go toe-to-
toe with the best program in the conference 
and a team McElwain believes is arguably 
the best in the nation in the Crimson Tide.
Maybe it’s the confidence the coach has 
brought into the locker room.
Maybe it’s the fresh and innovative ideas 
about how to run a team and an organiza-tion.
Or maybe it’s the fact that McElwain’s 
goal has never been to get “here,” but in-
stead to get “there,” even if everyone else 
doesn’t believe getting “here” is possible in the first place.
Either way, with the pace this program 
is on, “there” is probably right around the corner.
“I’ll tell you what: we’re going to get 
there,” McElwain said. “And we’re getting there in a hurry.”Senior forward Terry Allen scored 
34 points and added 13 rebounds in 
that victory and is leading Richmond in scoring with 22.2 points per game.
Florida hopes to slow down the 
Spiders’ offense by bringing a lot of defensive energy to the game from the opening tip, something White has been preaching all season. 
In the Gators’ recent games, 
White said he didn’t see that energy emerge until the second half, but Florida can’t fall behind to an offense like Richmond’s.
“Very displeased at halftime 
(against FGCU). I was proud of the 
way that our guys came out and de-
fended in the second half, we were really good defensively in the second half. Our guys, it’s been communi-cated to them, they understand that to beat good teams, it’s got to be like that for 40 minutes,” White said of his team’s defensive energy.
“We’re very capable, there’s no 
excuses not to come out with un-believable energy from the tip. Ev-ery game is an opportunity for us to improve, and I certainly hope we get that second half effort at the tip against Richmond, because that’s what it will take to defend a high level offensive team.”
Junior guard Kasey Hill pointed 
out that this year’s lack of energy feels like the opposite of last year, when he said the team struggled in the second half rather than the first. 
He said he has no idea why Flor-
ida has tended to start a little flat in 
recent games, but that it may just be 
a lack of focus.
“Last year we were so worried 
about trying to come out so good,” Hill said, “and this year we should be worried about the same thing but doing it for both halves, and we just haven’t got to that point yet, but we 
can get there.”
The energy may be lacking, but 
Florida’s ability to force turnovers on 
defense and take better care of the basketball on offense has steadily improved in the Gators’ last three games. 
In its first three contests, Florida 
had 22 combined steals and turned the ball over 44 times. 
But in its last three games, the 
number of steals has gone up to 29 and the turnovers down to 21.“We’re taking much better care 
of the basketball, our decisions of-fensively have been much better as of late,” White said. 
“We’ve progressed in those areas 
… we still have a ways to go offen-sively, of course, but in those areas we’re much better than we were.”TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill goes up for a lay-up during Florida's 104-54 win over 
North Carolina A&T on Nov. 16 in the O'Connell Center. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF fans do the Gator Chomp during Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
HOOPS,  from pg13Richmond upset California on Friday 
COLUMN,  from pg13the Gators to become accus-
tomed to competing for national championships “in a hurry.”
“I just can’t tell you how 
happy I am that the administra-tion chose to go our direction," McElwain recalled, "and to trust 
us to help this program get back 
to where it belongs.”
If Florida intends to get back 
to the championship caliber it was in the mid-2000s, compet-
ing against Alabama is arguably 
the best way for the team to gauge where it is on the rebuild-ing scale.
“We’re getting ready to play 
a football team that arguably is the best football team in all of college football,” McElwain said. 
“And historically, a program 
that understands how and be-lieves.”
Winners of three of the last 
six national and conference championships and the only team to win a trio of titles in the Bowl Championship Series, the Crimson Tide have been the 
flagship program of the SEC dur-
ing Saban’s tenure.
To say Alabama has crushed 
SEC competition is an under-statement. 
With an official 386-167-20 
record in SEC play, the team’s 
69.1 winning percentage is eas-
ily the highest mark of any team in the SEC. 
Considering the Gators are 
318-234-15 against the 13 op-
ponents in the SEC since joining 
the conference in 1933, Florida is still looking up at Alabama, hoping to achieve an identical level of dominance.
While replicating Alabama’s 
success is the long-term goal, beating the Crimson Tide is the immediate plan. 
A loss wouldn't unravel the 
progress the Gators have made 
this season. 
But a win over Alabama 
would go a long way to assert-
ing Florida is a complete team 
rather than a strong defensive 
unit that carries a floundering offense.
“I think as we continue play-
ing in these games, you know 
that have real relevance, it re-
ally helps you prepare as you move forward as a program and as a football team,” McElwain said. 
“We’ve got a long ways to 
go, but I think the thing that celebrated is how quickly these guys have changed the way 
they think. And how proud we 
should be for where we’re at. Now let’s go take the next step and go play in it and see what it’s like. That’s pretty exciting. 
And at the end of the day, the 
Florida Gators belong, and these Florida Gators belong in these games.”FOOTBALL,  from pg13Alabama won the SEC 
Championship in 2014
“W e're getting ready to play 
a football team that arguably 
is the best football team in 
all of college football."
Jim McElwain
UF football coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015
