VOLUME 109 ISSUE 87 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF Health hospitals break ground
It will cost $415 million and be completed in 2018, pg. 3.  
HiveSpace looking for savvy students
UF Hillel and Starter Space form startup incubator , pg 5. Faire thee well, Hoggetown
View the photo gallery and video on alligator.
org and the photo story on page 9. Kasey Hill and the 
UF men’s basketball 
team are on a three-
game losing streak 
after losing to Ole 
Miss. Read the story 
on Page 13.
59/38
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13CRESONIA HSIEH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Paynes Prairie is usually only ﬁ  lled with 
bison, wild horses and white-tailed deer, but 
Saturday night, clear skies and social media brought in a record-breaking crowd, and its fol-lowing trafﬁ  c, to the annual stargazing event.
Stargazing at Paynes Prairie brought in 
1,644 visitors, more than doubling last year’s at-tendance of about 700, said Emory Maxwell, a 
Paynes Prairie park ranger and UF English se-
nior. 
“I believe that it was due in part because of 
the weather,” Maxwell, 25, said. “We had better weather predicted for the night.”
Even before the sun set Saturday, Gary Cook, 
a UF environmental design and construction professor and Alachua Astronomy Club mem-ber, said he predicted the event would be ideal 
for stargazing because of its rural location, low 
humidity and time of year.
The moon, Comet Lovejoy, the Orion Neb-
ula, Venus, Jupiter and the Andromeda Galaxy were all visible during the event, said Andy Howell, Alachua Astronomy Club president.
The increased attendance may also be due 
to the Friends of Paynes Prairie’s active social media account, Maxwell said. He said the non-proﬁ  t organization has had a Facebook page for two years, but it has became more active in the past year.
“We were getting a lot of feedback that peo-
ple found out of the event through social media, mostly Facebook,” he said. 
Alex Camacho, an 18-year-old UF accounting 
freshman, said she found out about the event 
Hannah Morse / Alligator 
Richard Hennig, a UF materials science associate professor, watches over an attendee of Stargazing at Paynes Prairie on Satur-
day. Hennig, 42, set his telescope to focus on the Orion Nebula, which is a collection of dust and gas lit up by surrounding stars.
Attendance doubles at Paynes Prairie stargazing
ALYSSA FISHER and   MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writers aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
mmihm@alligator.org
Guns on campus could be a reality as 
soon as June if a recently introduced bill 
passes the Florida House and Senate.
After a legal dispute last semester, UF 
agreed to allow guns stored in locked 
boxes inside parked cars, but the new 
bill — House Bill 4005 — would allow concealed-carry permit holders to carry their weapons freely on campus.
Beyond the parking lot exception, UF 
opposes guns on campus, spokeswom-an Janine Sikes wrote in a statement. UF will look to law enforcement for recom-mendations on matters of public safety.
“The State of Florida University Po-
lice Chiefs, including UF Police Chief Linda Stump, are united in opposition to any legislation that would allow guns on campus,” Sikes wrote.
Gabriel Mondry, a 19-year-old UF 
health sciences sophomore, said he is a proud member of the gun commu-nity and was raised with and formally 
trained in gun safety.
A member of the UF Students for 
Concealed Carry and UF Practical Pistol 
Team, Mondry said he hopes the bill is passed because he feels his constitution-al rights are being violated with the law as is.
“I didn’t mean to get involved in 
the politics, but someone can’t just take 
away your rights,” Mondry said. “Poli-
tics makes my blood boil.”
He said he doesn’t think lawmakers UF concealed carry possibleLOCAL
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
The controversial dismissal of several Citi-
zens Co-op employees last year led to an almost yearlong labor dispute, but a much-anticipated settlement is now on the horizon.
An agreement to rehire four of the ﬁ  ve 
workers who were ﬁ  red last year has been reached between the co-op’s new board of di-rectors and the Gainesville Industrial Workers of the World — the union representing the em-ployees — said Thomas Hawkins, board chair-man.
The tentative agreement would rehire four 
of the ﬁ  ve workers, pay them a collective $10,000 and recognize Gainesville Industrial 
Workers of the World as their union. 
The National Labor Relations Board must approve the terms by March 16 or the labor 
complaint will appear in court.
Hawkins said he is conﬁ  dent the deadline 
will be met.
The agreement would end a dispute that be-
gan in March 2013 when seven co-op employ-ees improperly used the store’s email database to send out a message about unionizing. 
Five of the workers refused to cooperate 
with an internal investigation and were conse-quently ﬁ  red. The dismissed workers then ﬁ  led a complaint with the National Labor Relations 
Board accusing the co-op of ﬁ  ring them for 
wanting to unionize.
Hawkins said there was a drop-off in sales 
when the controversy happened. But new manager Kim Drummond is giving the store a fresh start.Citizens Co-op union rehires 
workers, controversy resolvedSEE STARGAZING, PAGE 4
SEE CO-OP, PAGE 4SEE GUN, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 87 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
67/41SUNNY
68/45SUNNY
59/37SUNNY
63/37SUNNY
59/38
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. from Like the Movies! This 
is a party you don’t want to miss. 
Model Railroader workshop
Model railroaders and people interested in the hobby have a special opportunity to learn and share on Saturday in Alachua. The event is open to the public. Beginners are wel-come. The program is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission is $5 per person. Workshops 
will be held in the fellowship 
hall of First United Methodist Church, located at 14805 NW 140th St. Skilled instructors will conduct workshops, and experienced hobbyists will show samples of their work. A lighting workshop will fea-ture use of LED lighting on 
a layout. More information 
is available online at ncfrail-roadclub.weebly.com.
Fulbright Talk
Eileen Ariza will speak Feb. 3 at 4:30 p.m. in McCarty Hall D, Room G001. Ariza is a professor at Florida Atlantic 
University and a Fulbright 
Ambassador.  Before mov-ing to Florida, Ariza was a Teaching Fellow in the English Language Institute at Harvard University and taught English and related work in several countries, including Mexico, Colombia, 
Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Costa 
Rica, Nicaragua, Brazil, Spain and the Philippines. Come and learn about the Fulbright experience! For off-campus audienc-es, Videoconferencing via Polycom will be available. Refreshments and network-
ing after lecture. For more 
information about this event, contact Professor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your foreign 
language skills, make friends, 
establish new contacts, strengthen your resume and intern abroad. All of these opportunities will be avail-able at the Study Abroad Fair on Feb. 4 on the Plaza of the WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Museum’s Adult 
Volunteer OrientationWant to become a Florida Museum of Natural History volunteer? The first step is at-
tending the new volunteer ori-
entation today from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. to help find the best match for your interests and abilities. Volunteers serve as exhibit guides to school groups and other museum visitors or pro-vide assistance in the research and collections areas. Pre-
registration is required and vol-
unteers must be 18 or older. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/volunteers/ or call 352-273-2056.
Intramural Sports
Registration for sand vol-leyball and team racquetball 
ends Thursday at noon. Spring 
leagues for sand volleyball in-clude men’s, women’s and co-rec, and leagues for racquetball include men’s, women’s, fra-ternity and sorority. For more information about rules, reg-istration and game schedules, visitrecsports.ufl.edu/intramu-
ral-sports/schedule/.
Gay Movie Night: “In Bloom”
Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Pride 
Community Center at 3131 NW 13th St. This witty, intelligent and painfully honest tale is set during one hot Chicago sum-mer, where two young men 
fall in love. Add the foreboding 
threat of a killer on the loose, and this incredibly rich and reward-ing film becomes unmissable. Kurt and Paul seem very solid and in love, living large in their home city of Chicago thanks in part to Kurt’s successful pot-dealing business. Everything 
is going their way. But when 
a sexy young customer makes a play for Kurt, subtle fissures in their relationship and an un-satisfied longing for what they don’t have are exposed, threat-ening their relationship and possibly their lives. Gay Movie Night is a free event of the Pride 
Community Center. A $2 dona-
tion is requested to the cover cost of snacks.
Rock the Block with GatorNights 
Get to know the Asian American Student Union at the Block Party on the North Lawn on Friday from 8 p.m. 
to 1 a.m. Laugh out loud with 
RUB Entertainment and Cat Ladies, an all-female improv comedy trio starring comedi-ans of MTV’s “Girl Code.” Plus free food, games and live music Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
For additional information visit 
ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write?  Want to improve your writing skills while making new friends? Then come to the Creative 
Writing Club every Wednesday 
at Matherly Hall, Room 014. Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a member of the group and then discussing the story with the whole group with a focus on constructive criticism. There are no require-
ments to join, just come and 
have fun with us.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
CAMPUS
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
Business suits and scrubs 
mingled with the occasional 
parka as rain threatened to put a damper on a standing-room-on-ly groundbreaking ceremony at 
UF Health on Friday afternoon.
The afternoon ceremony cel-
ebrated construction on the $415 
million UF Health Heart and Vascular Hospital and the UF 
Health Neuromedicine Hospital, 
which will be completed in 2018.
UF President Kent Fuchs, one 
of the speakers at the ceremony, 
described the hospitals as a kind of medical miracle.
“Today marks a bold step for 
UF and UF Health,” Fuchs said. 
The two hospitals will be in 
one roughly 521,000-square-foot 
building with a family lounge 
connecting them. It will also con-nect to the pre-existing cancer hospital by a bridge that will house a post-operative care cen-ter.
The new hospitals will fea-ture more space for the families of patients, including sleep areas in the patients’ rooms, according to a video shown during the cer-emony.
“So when they’re here with 
loved ones, they’re away from their homes, and this will be a nice environment for them to at least be more comfortable,” said Thomas Beaver, chief of cardio-vascular surgery. 
The hospitals will feature 
state-of-the-art technology, such as five hybrid operating rooms 
that can surgeons can use for 
both open procedures and mini-mally invasive ones, Beaver said. There will also be two MRI oper-ating suites for neurosurgery. 
The new facility’s glitz and 
glamour was designed to match the talent of the UF Health staff, interim CEO Edward Jimenez 
said. 
“If we truly want to make that 
signature mark, the facility has 
to match the talent, has to match the commitment,” Jimenez said. “It’s not about the building, it’s not the brick and mortars.”
The hospitals were designed 
to be convenient for patients by providing as many services as possible in one place, said UF 
Health President David Guzick.
“Our goal is always to put 
the patient at the center of every-
thing we do,” Guzick said. 
The hospitals will provide 
216 new patient rooms, he said. There will also be around 20 new operating rooms. 
The project was funded by 
philanthropy, reserve funding and borrowing money by selling bonds, Guzick said.
The expansion is expected 
to open in 2018, said Brad Pol-litt, vice president of facilities. Similar projects at peer hospitals have taken as long as 10 years to complete, Pollitt said.
“The leadership here were 
all committed to making this work,” he said. “We’re doing a good job, and we’re doing it quickly.”
UF Health hospitals break ground
EMILY COCHRANE 
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org 
A Gainesville man was arrested 
Saturday night after he reportedly fought three police officers while trying to avoid arrest.
According to a Gainesville Po-
lice report, Justin Spencer Smoak, 26, was found by police at 8:20 p.m. with Deltrice Simmons, 25, in an abandoned house, located at 2017 SE Second Ave. Smoak, wanted for car theft in Alachua County and traffic offenses in Hillsborough, was found hiding in a closet. 
When the officer tried to hand-
cuff Smoak, he began elbowing and grabbing the officer, according to the report. Smoak scratched anoth-
er officer on the hand and elbowed 
a third officer in the face before get-ting handcuffed. He continued to try to escape, pushing the third of-ficer into a wall.
When police searched the room 
where Smoak was hiding, two bags of tools and more than $300 in sto-len items were found. The items 
had been taken in a burglary the 
night before, according to the po-lice report.
Smoak was taken to the Alachua 
County Jail on charges of car theft, grand theft, battery on an officer and resisting arrest with violence. As of press time, he remained in jail in lieu of a $90,000 bond.
Simmons was connected to the 
robbery and tried to interfere with Smoak’s arrest, according to the report. She was also arrested on charges of grand theft and resist-ing arrest without violence. As of press time, she remained at the Ala-chua County Jail in lieu of a $15,000 bond.Police: GNV man resists 
arrest, attacks officersDrummond said she has focused on 
reducing expenses — including changes 
to payroll, working with vendors for special pricing and increasing produc-tivity — and keeping workers happy.
“There is less overlap in shifts. We all 
work very productively,” Drummond said, adding that she shortened store hours to reflect the times when most people shop.
The Co-op is averaging about $60,000 
per month compared to $100,000 before the controversy.
“I feel really good about the settle-
ment,” Drummond said. “I think that it’s a positive thing and will help us move forward.”
Alex Osherow, 20, is a vegan and ap-
preciates the unique plant-based prod-ucts the co-op offers.
“Unless I see a drop in quality or 
service, it really shouldn’t affect the con-sumer,” the UF advertising junior said regarding the dispute. 
Because he hasn’t seen negative im-
pacts on either, he’s remained a loyal customer.
“We’re focusing on providing local, 
great organic food to the Gainesville community,” Hawkins said. “That’s the next step — to refocus all of our efforts on that.”
The store, located at 435 S. Main St., 
is now open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily. THE MANAGER WILL NOT
COMMENT ABOUT THE INCIDENT.
JENNY O’DONNELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Protesters rallied in front of Clock Res-
taurant on Saturday morning in response 
to the manager’s treatment of a Gulf War veteran and his small dog.
On Tuesday, disabled war veteran Jeff 
Woods ate at the restaurant with his friend Steve Hamilton and his dog, according to a report by responding Gainesville Po-lice Officer Crystal Castor. Tanya Mad-dux, restaurant manager, walked up to Woods and asked that he put his service dog on the floor. However, the dog was on a blanket and not making contact with the booth, therefore following the Health 
Department guidelines.
“The woman was very rude, abrasive, 
argumentative, belligerent,” Hamilton 
said, referring to Maddux. Hamilton, also a veteran, said he wishes people were educated on veterans with disabilities.
“He was upset at how he was treated 
and how these people were taught to treat his service dog,” Hamilton said, re-
ferring to Woods.After reading an article about Woods 
and his dog, the Rev. Milford Lewis Gri-ner organized the protest.
“I always respond when acts of in-
justice take place against anybody,” said 
Griner, who is the founder and president of the Rosa Parks Quiet Courage Com-mittee. “This is how we all should be when someone’s not treated fairly.”
A group of about 10 people arrived 
at 10 a.m. Saturday, waving banners and 
flags on the sidewalk in front of the res-
taurant for a couple hours. Members of the Gainesville chapter of Veterans for Peace also showed their support.
Paul Ortiz, a military veteran and 
member of Veterans for Peace, was one of the protestors. He said he was happy to see so many people participate in the rally.
“We’re not trying to create a confron-
tation,” Ortiz said. “We’re just trying to educate people about the conditions that veterans face.”
Maddux would not comment about 
the protest or Tuesday’s incident.
Though Woods said he was not feel-
ing well enough to talk when asked to comment on the protest, he did say that 
he was appreciative “that somebody else 
cares.”4, ALLIGATOR � MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
Jenny O’Donnell / Alligator
Cody Anderson, a member of the Military Support Group of Alachua County, holds a flag during 
the protest against Clock Restaurant on Saturday morning. “I felt it was important to support Mr. Woods,” Anderson said. “I felt that the way he was treated was not only illegal but immoral.”
LOCAL
KENDALL PRIOR
Alligator Contributing Writer
Uninsured members of the community 
were able to compare medical insurance op-
tions and enroll online at The Wooly over the weekend.
Enroll America, The Links Inc. Gainesville 
chapter and the Epilepsy Foundation of Flor-ida held the event Saturday to help residents enroll for insurance online before the Feb. 15 final deadline. 
David O’Malley, the organizer of northern Florida for Enroll America said health insur-ance is one of the most important things a person can have in life. Without it, people can lose everything else. 
“Medical debt is the largest factor in per-
sonal bankruptcy,” O’Malley said. 
He would know. In 2006, he received a 
double bypass surgery that left him hospital-ized. He ended up losing his job, his insur-ance and his marriage. 
Insurance agents volunteered to help 
uninsured or underinsured people with on-line enrollment. For those without an email address, which is required to apply online, there was a table and computer set up for cre-ating personal email addresses. 
The Links Inc., a group of professional 
women, also provided free medical services such as blood pressure testing and diabetes screening. Members who were nutritionists 
and a pharmacist were also there to discuss 
health with participants. 
Dr. Marie Kima, the chair of the health 
and human services facet of The Links Inc. in Gainesville, said she was proud to volunteer for this cause. As a doctor, Kima said she believes get-
ting coverage is the best way for people to promote their health. 
“Health is probably one of the most im-
portant things in a person’s life,” Kima said. “My job is to make sure my patients get the best health care possible.” 
The next enrollment event will be Feb. 14, 
the day before the enrollment deadline.   
For coverage, people need to have their 
social security numbers, a recent W-2 form or pay stub and current health insurance infor-mation, if applicable.
Uninsured get help signing up for health insurance at Wooly
Protest supports veteran, service dog outside the Clock
The more than doubled attendance worsened traffic on Route 234
through Facebook. She came with friends 
and said she enjoyed looking through the telescopes, drinking hot cocoa, eating s’mores and listening to music for three hours.
“We got to do all the activities they had without the hassle of lines that we saw as we were leaving,” said Camacho. “Oh yeah, I’m going to go again. Definitely.”
However, her friend Maggie Patterson, 19, 
said she didn’t find the event as pleasant. She arrived two and a half hours later than Cama-cho and was only able to stay for 30 minutes because of the crowds and cold weather.
“If you wanted to do anything, you had to 
wait in line for it,” the UF economics fresh-
man said. 
Maxwell said he thought the event ran 
smoothly, especially considering the double 
in attendance. “The fact that we were able to keep hay-
rides going and that we did not run out of s’mores or hot chocolate — I thought it was 
a very good thing,” he said. “Aside from a 
couple of hiccups, like the wait time on Route 234, we considered the event a huge success.”
STARGAZING  from page 1
CO-OP , from page 1Co-op profits have dropped Still need a permit, be 21 or up
should infringe on his rights because he’s on a school campus.
“It’s our right as humans to protect our-
selves,” he said. “It’s in the Constitution.”
Mondry said he doesn’t think carrying a 
gun on campus is dangerous. And because a gun owner in Florida must be 21 and have a permit, there won’t be an immediate spike in students carrying.
Criminals are already going to be carrying 
weapons, regardless of the law, he said. 
“A college campus is no different than 
anywhere else in the United States,” Mondry said.
But not all students agree.“Allowing non-law enforcement person-
nel to carry concealed handguns on campus will create an unsafe environment for stu-dents,” said Amir Avin, the UF College Dem-ocrats president.
For now, the 20-year-old UF finance junior 
said the organization is coordinating efforts with other chapters in the state to gather peti-tion signatures. He added that they plan on going to Tallahassee to testify before the state Legislature.
“No one’s trying to take away anyone’s 
guns,” he said. “A lot of us are gun owners, and we are entitled to those rights, but bring-ing more guns into a college campus just doesn’t make sense.”
Many things could go wrong with intro-
ducing concealed handguns to college cam-puses, Avin said.
“It just adds a whole number of variables 
into the equation,” he said. “On a college campus we entrust our safety to our law en-forcement officers and (Gainesville and Uni-versity Police) do a fantastic job protecting our students.”GUN , from page 1MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Everybody Walk the Dinosaur
George Hecht, coordinator of museum operations at the Florida Museum of Natural History, speaks to an 
audience Saturday afternoon about Sue, the largest and most well-preserved Tyrannosaurus rex skeleton ever found, now on display in the museum.
EDUCATION
CHRIS CALDERON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Daisey Gainey is nervous about failing the 
GED.
The UF Rawlings Hall custodial worker 
and mother of seven said she hasn’t been in 
school in years, and the recent change in dif-ficulty is not fair.
With the job market’s changing standards, 
the GED, an exam equivalent to a high school 
degree, has been made more difficult. 
Michael Sanders, a teacher specialist for 
the Adult Education and GED Program at Alachua County Public Schools, said there is more advanced language in the reading sec-tion and more difficult math questions. “These days, everything is more difficult,” 
Sanders said. “There are higher expectations 
in things such as high school, college and jobs 
than there was in the past, so the test needed 
to be made more difficult as well. The people 
taking the test will just have to work harder.”
Sanders said the change in question dif-
ficulty are to ensure people are qualified to handle the increased use of technology in modern careers.
“We need to make sure these people are 
capable of and have the capacity for learning how to operate these systems successfully,” 
he said.
Sanders said there is about a 50 percent 
pass rate for first-time test takers, and GED 
specialist teachers are aware of its increased difficulty.
“The teachers have been retrained to teach 
the new material at a workshop and have 
been given the proper tools that they need to 
teach effectively,” he said.
However, this could impact employment 
rates because fewer people are earning their 
GED diploma. 
“A lot of jobs require at least a high school 
diploma, so this could mean there will be 
less qualified people to take the job,” Sand-
ers said.Gainey said the testing center should 
make it easier for older adults taking the 
exam because, like her, they may not have 
been in school for years. 
She said she thinks the changes are unnec-
essary for someone like her who is trying to 
broaden her opportunities.
“I regret not finishing, but I had to raise 
seven children and work two jobs to support 
my family,” she said.  
Gainey said she wants to earn her GED di-
ploma soon and is trying her best. She stud-ies in her spare time and attends tutoring ses-
sions when she can.
“I am not giving up on getting my GED 
certificate,” she said. “I will do whatever it 
takes, and eventually, I will succeed.”GED test more difficult for modern tech-driven job market
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
With one puff of an elec-
tronic cigarette, smokers 
could be sucking a carcinogen into their lungs.
According to a study in 
the New England Journal of Medicine, when e-cigarettes are turned up to high volt-ages, the liquid inside breaks down and releases formalde-hyde — a known carcinogen — in its vapor.
Long-term vaping could 
increase a user’s cancer risk 
as much as 15 times, accord-
ing to NEJM.
But Matthew Thomas, 24, 
the general manager of Emag-inevapor in The Oaks Mall, said he disagrees.  
“When you light up a ciga-
rette, we all know that there’s a rough mixture of, like, 7,000 
chemicals,” he said.  “I can tell 
you that there are up to four main ingredients in this (e-cigarette) — four chemicals.”
The study's findings were 
inaccurate, Thomas said, be-cause it would be almost im-possible to use e-cigarettes at such a high heat, citing a Fox 
News talk show.One of the lead research-
ers, James Pankow from Port-
land State University, told NBC the study does not say e-cigarettes are more harm-ful than traditional cigarettes because it only looked at one chemical.
Thomas said that when 
used at a normal voltage set-ting, Emaginevapor’s formal-dehyde production is “com-pletely in the safe range, 
where it’s releasing none, 
pretty much.”
Dr. Barry Hummel, a pedi-
atrician and the communica-tions director for the Tobacco Prevention Network of Flor-ida, cautioned against using e-cigarettes. 
The long-term conse-
quences of the products have not been studied yet, and no-body knows if they’re safer than traditional tobacco, he said.
“It’s going to take many, 
many more studies," he said, "and it’s going to take many long-term studies to find out 
the impact of these chemicals 
before anybody can make a statement as to the risks as-sociated with electronic ciga-rettes."Study: vapor from 
e-cigarettes contains harmful chemical
 STUDENTS CAN APPLY 
ONLINE.
CHELSEY FREEMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new incubator is rising in 
Gainesville with hopes of recruit-
ing students interested in making a 
difference in the world.
HiveSpace is the new brainchild 
of UF Hillel and Starter Space, an 
incubator founded in September. 
Quang Tran, a managing part-
ner and 2004 UF alumnus, said he is looking to include future compa-nies with an initiative to help the planet and make a profit.
HiveSpace is currently recruit-
ing driven UF students who own a company or are thinking of creat-ing a company they want to take to the next level.
Tran said he does not look at the 
process as “hiring.” Instead, he said he wants the applicants to feel like 
HiveSpace is their perfect match.
“We don’t have a strict applica-
tion,” Tran said. “We actually have 
a survey that says, ‘Is this the right fit for you?’”
The survey, found on HiveS-
pace’s website, is meant to find applicants who share the partners’ five core values, like the idea that 
“failure is fertilizer.”
UF Hillel CEO and HiveSpace 
managing partner Rabbi Adam 
Grossman said he doesn’t expect a company to succeed on its first 
attempt but wants to provide the 
tools to achieve it.
“We know at the end of the 
day that most companies will fail 
on their first try,” Grossman said. 
“Our hope is to help everybody succeed.”
Because of the ambitious and 
philanthropic community at UF, 
Grossman said he has high hopes 
for the first wave of HiveSpace en-trepreneurs.
“Actually taking the actions we 
can take in our world, making it better today than it was yesterday,” he said, “that’s really our goal.”
HiveSpace looking for savvy students“These days, everything is more 
difficult.”
Michael Sanders
Alachua County teacher specialist
 Formaldehyde is a flammable, colorless, strong-
smelling chemical used in building materials and many 
household products. Automobile tailpipes also release formaldehyde into the air. In 1980, studies showed that exposure to formalde -
hyde could cause nasal cancer in rats. The International Agency for Research on Cancer clas -
sifies formaldehyde as a human carcinogen. According to the Center for Disease Control, expo -
sure to formaldehyde can cause a sore throat, cough, scratchy eyes and nose bleeds.
* Information courtesy of the National Cancer Institute and Centers for    Disease Control and PreventionSome successful start-
ups that came out of 
Gainesville incubators:
 Feathr: Creates interactive, digital business cards. 
 Eatable: An app that’s like 
Pandora for food. It recom -
mends dishes geared toward your tastes wherever you are.
 Shadow Health: Online, in-
teractive simulations that help train healthcare provid-ers with the goal of alleviat-ing a worldwide shortage of healthcare providers.Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.39 TOTAL VOTES18% YES
82% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Are you participating 
in the Gator Run? Today’s question: Do you own a gun?
Lift on gun ban 
absurd, dangerous 
for students
Around this time last year, a loophole was forced open 
that allows students to keep guns in locked cars. Many found it problematic, some saw it as a decent compro-
mise between an all-out ban and a free-for-all. But for a few on 
the ideological fringe, it wasn’t nearly enough of a relaxation.
For that reason, House Republicans have proposed a total lift 
on the ban. It’s championed by Rep. Gregory Steube of Sarasota, 
a young representative who took office in 2012.
If this bill passes, anybody with a concealed-carry license 
will be allowed to have a firearm on their person anywhere on college campuses in the entire state of Florida. It would remove 
guns from the list of things you can’t have in dorms — but have 
no fear, dangers such as candles, cats and unlit cigarettes will remain prohibited.
In typical fashion, gun-rights advocates and the National 
Rifle Association are framing it as a reversal of seemingly ir-
rational policies. Raquel Okyay, right-wing writer and Second-
Amendment fetishist, catalogued the responses of concealed-carry advocates in a post which hailed the proposed law. 
They offer up concealed-carry on college campuses as a solu-
tion for all that ails us as far as violent crime is concerned. The 
spate of attempted sexual assaults early last Fall and the shoot-
ing at Florida State University Strozier Library are being used as justifications to allow everybody to be packing.
“Where colleges have allowed concealed carry, there has not 
been a single mass shooting,” said Florida Carry Inc. Executive Director Sean Caranna, who apparently missed school the day they explained the concept of causation.
It basically comes down to dirty politics. The bill is nothing 
but a manifestation of a lofty dogma held by our friends in the state House and the offices of advocacy groups — this idea that bad things only happen because there aren’t enough guns in cir-culation, that the only thing which stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun, despite never presenting a single case to back up the assertion. Pushing this bill through is their way of asserting dominance, shoving their warped action-movie ver-sion of reality down our throats and leaving the students to deal with the consequences.
A stubborn fact remains: this isn’t a goddamn John Wayne 
movie. It’s incredibly easy to fantasize about an armed citizen using a gun to stop acts of horrific violence. We could depart here and list all kinds of terrible things that could happen with a proliferation of guns on campus. But we won’t; that’s fear mon-gering, which is exactly what got us into this mess in the first place. The proposed law isn’t just dangerous, reckless and ir-responsible. It’s wholly unnecessary. While Rep. Steube sits in his office protected by police and metal detectors, we have to sit all day in classrooms full of students armed with guns.Modeling the NFL Pro Bowl after NBA
Imagine this: You’re a professional football player who just had the season of your life. You outperformed ev-ery other player in your position in the National Foot-
ball League, and the fans have rewarded you by voting to send you off to the NFL Pro Bowl, where the league’s top talent form two teams and play each other.
But this game won’t be played just anywhere. It’s in 
Hawaii. That means practices under the warm, blue skies, 
drinks by the pool and did I mention you get paid to be there for the week?
This was a reality for NFL players who were voted into 
the all-star game until the 2009-2010 season. After hold-ing the game in Hawaii for 30 years, the league decided to move the festivities to the same site as the Super Bowl. The league also voted to hold the game a week before the Super Bowl was to be played, a move that meant those players elected to the Pro Bowl who were also in the Super Bowl the following week could not participate.
The reactions to these changes were, as expected, not 
good.
Ratings for the Pro Bowl plummeted as fans lost inter-
est, instead looking ahead to the Super Bowl matchup the following week. Those who played in the game did so with a palpable lack of enthusiasm or competitive drive. Mov-ing the game from picturesque Hawaii to the mainland U.S. also did not go over too well, as you might imagine.
Since these changes were first implemented, NFL Com-
missioner Roger Goodell has demanded more competitive 
play from his players but has not received much of a re-
sponse. The game was moved again to Hawaii from 2011-2014 but was moved back to the mainland for this year’s edition of the game. 
After Sunday’s Pro Bowl in Arizona, the game is once 
again moving back to Hawaii for 2016. Why can’t the NFL, one of the most elite and respected sports organizations, make up its damn mind?
I want to make a case for keeping the NFL’s Pro Bowl, 
but only if it is redesigned to reflect the NBA’s version. The NBA All-Star Weekend attracts thousands of fans from all over the country every year. It is played in a dif-ferent NBA city each season and held in February, splitting the season in two halves.
This format works for three 
reasons.
It works because it puts on a show for the fans. The 
NBA All-Star festivities are held over three days. Friday is all about introducing young talent to the league. It also features the celebrity game, which draws thousands. Who doesn’t want to see Justin Bieber try to play basketball with actors and singers twice his height and maturity?
Saturday night features a slam-dunk competition, 
shooting contests and musical concerts. Finally, Sunday showcases some of the greatest athletes in the world with 
the All-Star game. The whole weekend is about giving the 
fans an experience they will never forget.
The second reason it works is that the players actu-
ally want to participate in the game. The game and oth-er events give the NBA’s best a golden opportunity to show off. And let’s be honest, what professional athlete wouldn’t jump at the chance to do so?
The final reason is its placement in the middle of the 
season. With a grueling 82-game schedule, all NBA play-
ers, elected to the All-Star lineup or not, get a crucial 
week off from practice. This gives them time to rest sore muscles, recuperate from nagging injuries and mentally prepare themselves for the remainder of the season. As an athlete, this week is priceless.
If the NFL took a cue from the NBA’s hugely successful 
All-Star model and implemented even one of these com-ponents, the Pro Bowl would stand a chance at higher tele-vision ratings and fan involvement. Goodell and the NFL 
need to realize that a lackluster All-Star game will impede 
any efforts to improve upon the satisfaction of its players and its fans.
In the end, it will come down to money as it always 
does. Is the NFL willing to spend money in order to make it? 
Erica Brown is a UF journalism junior. Her columns ap-
pear on Mondays.MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORErica Brown
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Last week Benjamin Ne-
tanyahu, prime minister of Israel, announced that 
he will be addressing a joint meeting of Congress in early 
March to discuss actions to be taken against 
Iran’s nuclear program should the diplomat-ic approach prove fruitless. House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, invited the prime minister to make these proposals to Con-gress with little excitement from the White House. Josh Earnest, the Obama administra-tion’s press secretary, said that Obama will not be meeting with Netanyahu when he 
visits in March because they want to steer 
clear of him during Netanyahu’s election campaign. Earnest went on to explain that they want to avoid “the appearance of any kind of interference with a democratic elec-tion.” 
The real reason Obama is refusing to 
meet with the Israeli leader is that he doesn’t want to show a decisive and direct alle-
giance to our only ally in the Middle East. 
He is afraid that will “all but guarantee” nuclear talks with Iran will fail. 
New sanctions against Iran will all but 
surely ruin any developments that have been made with Iran, according to the presi-dent. In his State of the Union address Tues-day, Obama said that “for the ﬁ  rst time in a decade, we’ve halted the progress of [Iran’s] 
nuclear program and reduced its stockpile 
of nuclear material.” 
If only that were true. The day after the president made those 
seriously false statements regarding the dwindling of Iran’s nuclear program, a satellite image showed a 90-foot-long inter-continental ballistic missile on a launch pad near Tehran, the Iranian capital. According 
to the Israeli Channel 2 News, which broke 
the story, Iran is rapidly developing its man-ufacturing of long-range missiles that poses a threat “far beyond Europe.” 
In addition to satellite imagery that 
proves the progress of Iran’s weapon de-velopment, there are no facts to support Obama’s claim that Iran’s nuclear program is being halted. According to Olli Heinonen, 
who headed the International Atomic En-
ergy Agency’s safeguards section during the 2003-2005 talks between Iran and three European powers, “it is true that 20-percent enriched uranium stocks have decreased, but Iran is still producing uranium enriched up to 5-percent uranium. 
The latter stocks have actually increased when you talk about stocks of uranium hexaﬂ  uoride and other chemical compounds.” Heinonen went on to com-ment about Iran’s centrifuges, 
which are devices responsible for enriching the uranium for nuclear capabilities. He said that while there have been no new instal-lations of centrifuges, “it appears that the production of centrifuge components con-tinues” which means that they could be put together in a very short amount of time if all the other necessary parts are completed. 
It is troubling that Obama would make 
such bold claims that Iran’s nuclear pro-gram is deteriorating when all the evidence shows that is not the case. David Albright, who heads the Institute for Science and In-ternational Security, agrees and says that the president’s language in this State of the Union address was “a little bit odd” given the fact that it is not correct that the 3.5-per-cent enriched stock has been reduced. In-
stead it has been converted from hexaﬂ  uo-
ride to oxide, a political gesture that means nothing as the process can be reversed and used to develop a nuclear weapon on very short notice.
Of course during Obama’s State of the 
Union Address, he couldn’t have gone into such great technical detail about all of this as it would be language not readily under-
stood by the majority of the public. Actu-
ally, unless you’re an expert, none of it re-ally makes sense at all. But all the experts are saying that Iran’s nuclear program is full steam ahead. I trust their judgment, and Obama should too. When he makes claims that Iran is being stopped, he is being disin-genuous and making Iran out to be the good guy in this ﬁ  ght. 
More needs to be done to seriously hin-
der Iran’s nuclear abilities and protect Israel from a possible devastating strike, but that is hard to accomplish when we have a presi-dent who seems to think no battle is neces-sary and turns his attention to less pressing issues such as paid sick leave and free com-munity college. 
It’s very worrisome and downright em-
barrassing when interviews with YouTube personalities take precedence over the safety of Israel. Obama has spoken with GloZell Green, but taking time to discuss serious international security matters with Netan-yahu is too troublesome for the president.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political 
science senior. His column appears on Mondays. 
President Barack Obama 
needs to lead against IranColumn
Every year after the 
State of the Union speech, the president 
of the United States goes on a cross-country tour to make a case for his agenda. 
In an effort to reach young-
er crowds, the president in-
vited three well-known You-Tubers to interview him face to face. Hank Green, GloZell Green and Bethany Mota all asked him a variety of questions, from the U.S. stance on North Korea to racial proﬁ  ling to cyberbullying. As a millennial, I am glad the president reached out to people of my age group to talk about all the issues that matter.
Surprisingly, this string of interviews 
was heavily criticized by traditional me-
dia outlets. CNN took this opportunity 
to cover the story by ﬁ  rst showing clips of GloZell in a bathtub full of milk eat-ing cereal in an attempt to poke fun at 
her. 
Even before the interviews were 
taped, CNN’s White House correspon-
dent Jim Acosta asked White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest, “I’m just 
curious, was ‘Charlie Bit My Finger’ or 
‘David After Dentist’ not available?”  Many news sites were shocked that these three internet personalities had 
been chosen to ask the president well-
rounded and substantive questions.
It is very upsetting to see the news 
media, which has lost all kinds of le-gitimacy in recent years, discredit the 
legitimacy of Hank, GloZell and Betha-
ny. These three personalities represent everyday Americans who are aware of American-based problems. Throughout 
the interviews you could tell that they 
spoke from the heart, unequivocally be-ing themselves. If anything, they were brutally honest. 
If you were to compare these to a tra-
ditional news media interview, MSNBC would play suck-up to the president, Fox would ﬁ  nd a way to undermine Obama’s message and CNN would try to look for sound bites that would bring in ratings. Hank, Glozell and Bethany 
didn’t have an agenda or a 
mass media company to be accountable to. They were chosen because they culti-
vated an audience by being 
themselves. The real rea-son why they were sharply 
criticized is that people under 40 see the media as tools to hold up ideological bi-
ases instead of being an objective source 
that simply does “the news.” 
There is so much distrust that the 
Daily Show with Jon Stewart is growing 
to be the most-trusted news program 
for the young generation. These days, millennials trust YouTube personalities because they’ve never been given a rea-son not to. These days young people get 
their news from the likes of Facebook, 
Tumblr and Twitter, and everyday con-versations are about sexism, racism, homo/transphobia, classism, climate 
change, unemployment and more. 
These conversations don’t translate 
into the political arena or mainstream 
culture; that is why the White House de-cided to meet with YouTubers and start 
having conversations that matter.
The news media plays a special role 
in society. They are responsible for tell-
ing us what is in the public interest in 
the most objective way possible. Their 
responsibility is more than to their shareholders. Today, the media has moved so far away from that and we are all sick of it. All the news directors 
in the country have to realize that using 
hashtags and producing staged inter-views to hold up ideologies is not at-tractive to young people. 
Unfortunately, it is clear that high 
ratings will be the ultimate goal. Hope-fully, Anderson Cooper, our resident silver fox dreamboat, can rescue the news from the grips of old, rich men.
Harold Joseph is a UF political science 
junior. His columns appear on Mondays.Millennials are not pleased 
with the outdated mediaColumn
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org
Harold Joseph
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
Photo Left
Ludovic Papillie, a 23-year-old UF law exchange student from France, ﬁ  nishes ﬁ  rst in the Gator Run on Saturday afternoon.
Photo Top
From left: Ami Wang, 20, Chelsi Gaskin, 20, and Valentina Varela, 19, all UF students, throw bags of orange cornstarch at each other Saturday on Flavet Field after running their ﬁ  rst Gator Run.
Photo Above
Runners throw blue powder in the air Saturday evening during the Gator Run after-party on Flavet Field.
Photo Below
Participants in Saturday’s Gator Run get pelted by orange-colored cornstarch as they begin the 5k race.
Run, Gator, 
Run
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffAllison Deutch / Alligator 
Isis Ramirez / Alligator
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffMONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Above
Don Rhodes, 52, marches as a paymaster and noble in a procession at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday. He is a member of The Lincoln Com-panie, an educational group that showcases uniforms, weapons and artifacts from the War of the Roses in 1471.
Below
Al Gardner, 63, of La Porte, Indiana, makes a glass hummingbird at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday. 
Faire thee well, Hoggetown
Susan Huang / Alligator
Nicole Gomez / Alligator
Ehrich Gauvin, 27, a full-time traveling musician from Kent Cliffs, New York, plays for tips at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday. 
Nicole Gomez / AlligatorSusan Huang / Alligator
Carol Black, as Lady Ettie, trails behind the royal procession in her dress for all occasions at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday. “It’s a parade, you know!” she shouted.MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-23BR. partially furnished. Right for man and wife on fixed income. No pets. In Old Town, FL 901-517-6202    1-28-5-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
SWIMMING POOL SERVICE ACCOUNTS, Lake City, FL. Asking $16,000 = 8 months grosse @ 10 hours work per week. Year-round accounts. Must sell, I have too much work. 386-590-3561    1-28-15-5-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-6-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, Energetic person.
Experience preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be available weekends.
Apply in person
Spyglass 701 SW 62nd Blvd
4-22-15-68-14
Fraternity Management Assistant.Work with Accounts Payable/Receivable, Handle Invoices, Attend Weekly Fraternity Meetings, etc. Must be dependable, knowl -
edgeable, and focused. Min of 10-15 hours a week. Email Resume to info@fratmgmt.com    1-28-15-6-14
Experienced breakfast cook sought by Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy. Apply in person.     1-28-15-5-14Part Time Job at CITT on campus help with online courses 20 hrs/wk, $10/hr, flex schedule basic knowledge of: Windows, MS Office and Photoshop Will be assisting Faculty Please drop your resume at 2215 Turlington Hall    1-28-15-5-14
Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
ITC Defense seeking reliable student for 10 hrs/wk @ $8.05/hr. Great resume build -
er doing government contract research & social media strategy. Send resumes to: ITCStudent@ITCDefense.com    1-30-15-6-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY  Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Write an essay on happiness.Win $500. No entry fee.humanhappinessfoundation.org(A Nonprofit Organization)    1-28-15-5-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND - I-PHONE
In O'Connell Center on 1/20. Level 2, Section 
D, Row 13. Turned in to UPD. Claim there 
with code.    1-26-3-25
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Mike Holloway saw his 
4x400-meter relay teams post this year’s best time in the world. Read more at alligatorSports.org.Gators in the NFL
Three former Florida football players — Joe Haden, Maurkice Pouncey and Mike Pouncey — participated in Sunday’s Pro Bowl in Phoenix, Arizona.Women’s golf to start Spring season
The UF women’s golf team opens its Spring season today with the Florida Challenge in Lecanto, Florida. UF’s lineup consists of Camilla Hedberg, Maria Torres, Taylor Tomlinson, Ursa Orehek and Kelly Grassel.GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Winless in their last four games, the Flor-
ida women’s basketball team received some much-needed rest last week for the program to decompress and recover from the strain of the Southeastern Conference schedule.
The break was critical for the Gators, who 
regrouped and got back on track as Florida downed Arkansas 72-58 on Sunday after-noon in the O’Connell Center.
Coach Amanda Butler said the team’s res 
during its midweek bye crucial for UF (10-10, 
2-5 SEC) to correct the losing mindset that 
emerged as the team went winless in three 
weeks.
“I think these kids go so hard for so long 
and that’s just physically,” Butler said. “Then there are the academic rigors that they have 
as well.
“We really encouraged the team for two 
days to stay out of the gym, rest your legs, 
rest your mind, focus on your academics and 
just relax a little bit. I think we did a really 
good job of that.”
Florida received significant scoring from 
its guards for arguably the first time in SEC 
play. January Miller, who shot 18.6 percent 
from the field in Florida’s first six conference 
games, found her rhythm against the Razor-
backs and attacked the basket with force. 
She started the game on the bench, but 
entered the game determined to correct the 
shooting woes.
She did just that, scoring a season-high 16 
points on 6-of-12 shooting.
“I was attacking way more than I was in 
the past,” Miller said. “My coaches just kept telling me that I needed to drive. Once I actu-ally relaxed and just played like I knew how 
to, things just flowed.”
January Miller leads Florida to win over Arkansas
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
January Miller drives into the paint during Florida’s 72-58 win against Arkansas on 
Sunday in the O’Connell Center. Miller scored a season-high 16 points in the win.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
Florida started Southeastern 
Conference play with a three-game 
win streak, but now the Gators 
own a season-worst three-game 
losing streak after falling to Ole 
Miss on the road.
The Rebels defeated Florida (10-
9, 3-3 SEC) 72-71 at the C.M. “Tad” Smith Coliseum on Saturday night.
But coach Billy 
Donovan isn’t so concerned with the 
losing streak. He 
said the next time his team takes to the court in Tus-caloosa, Alabama, 
on Tuesday to go 
up against the Crimson Tide (12-6, 
2-3 SEC), it’ll just be another game. 
But if there is one thing he hopes carries over from the court in Mis-sissippi to the court in Alabama, it’s the Gators’ newfound fight.
“I was proud of the way we bat-
tled and competed,” Donovan said. “I thought we fought really hard but I thought this was a microcosm of how little room for error there 
is.”
Donovan emphasized an overall 
improved performance from a team 
that has shown sparks of greatness but has consistently struggled to maintain that for any length of time on the court. This time the Gators led for 30 of the 40 minutes on Sat-
urday and started the game with 
an unanswered eight-point run. 
But there were still some plays that 
hurt, Donovan said.
Like the last play of the game.
Down by one, Florida got the 
ball back with three-and-a-half sec-onds to play. Senior Jacob Kurtz inbounded the ball and Kasey Hill raced down the court.
But it was too little too late. Donovan 
not worried 
about UF’s 
losing streak
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
After a 4-0 debut against Elon on Sat-
urday, the No. 2 UF women’s tennis team 
continued to hold ground on the second day of the ITA Kick Off Weekend. 
Florida (2-0) downed Maryland 4-0 on 
Sunday, punching its ticket to February’s ITA National Indoor Championships in Charlottesville, Virginia.Doubles duo Brooke 
Austin and Kourtney Keegan clinched the dou-bles point after freshmen pair Josie Kuhlman and Peggy Porter beat Maryland’s Olivia Gaudreault and Alexan-dra Stanova (6-2).
Although Florida remains undefeated in 
doubles play, coach Roland Thornqvist still sees room for growth.“Are we a well-oiled-
machine at this point? Probably not, but we’re two matches into the year,” 
Thornqvist said. “Certainly there’s loads of things we can get better at.”
Once Florida pulled ahead in doubles, 
there was no stopping them after that point.
Sophomores Belinda Woolcock and UF sweeps competition, advances to ITA IndoorsMEN’S BASKETBALL
Donovan
UF W omen’s T ennis
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 14SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 14
SEE W-TENNIS, PAGE 14“We really encouraged the team 
for two days to stay out of the gym, 
rest your legs, rest your mind, focus 
on your academics and just relax a 
little bit. I think we did a really good 
job of that.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coachSpencer Liang gave security to the 
Gators and set the tone for the rest of the match after winning their in-dividual matches.
It was then that 2014 singles 
All-American Brianna Morgan stepped up to bring in the W for the Gators.
With much development to 
come throughout the season, Thornqvist said Morgan showed the younger athletes how it’s done.
“She is a great example. She 
was down I believe 4-1 in the sec-ond set and ends up clinching the match for us 6-4,” Thornqvist said. “When you play this many new players and freshmen, you’re go-ing to have a little bit more up and down in performance. They’re 18. This is their first go-around. And they’re playing against players, we have to realize that too, that most of the time they play with nothing to lose when they play against us.”
After the 5-foot-8 junior came 
back from what was thought to be an upset in the second set of her match, it was no surprise to her coach what the results of the match would be.
“She is absolutely crucial for 
us,” Thornqvist said. “She’s per-haps the best athlete we’ve had in the 14 years I’ve been here and to-day, by the end of the second set, she was flying side to side and her forehand was clicking and that’s great for the Gators.”
Morgan said her head wasn’t 
entirely in the game in the second set until she turned the heat up on her opponent. 
“I think I just got a little more 
focused and honed in on the goal,” Morgan said. “I knew I wasn’t playing my best in those games where I got down and I was just like, ‘I need to focus’ and not re-ally worry about the score but just worry about point after point.”
Morgan said she’s confident 
that the freshmen will continue to 
grow in the early season, and the 
wins will only further accelerate their growth. 
“They’re really mentally 
tough,” Morgan said. “I think they 
can go the distance. No matter 
what the score is, they are going to 
fight no matter what.”
The buzzer rang and the 
sophomore guard just barely 
shot the ball into the air. With 
little follow-through, Hill 
knew it was no good and it 
read on his face as Ole Miss 
celebrated.
“Kasey has got to recog-
nize three and a half seconds, 
you got to get a shot up,” Donovan said. “You just got to stop and shoot the ball. His speed got him to that point which was good but he 
obviously probably took it a 
little too far.”
Though he said he was 
pleased with Florida’s per-
formance from the three-
point line (60 percent on 
12-of-20 shooting) and the 
field (47.8 percent on 22-of-
46 shooting), Donovan noted there was noticeably room to 
improve. Specifically, he said 
he wished the Gators were shooting closer to 70 percent 
from the free throw line rath-
er than the 62.5 percent Flori-da ended the game with. Ole 
Miss shot 84.2 percent from 
the charity stripe.
 “Everywhere on the 
stat sheet, it wasn’t too bad 
in terms of the numbers,” Donovan said. “There’s just no room for error when we make the amount of mistakes that we make.”14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill drives the ball down the court during Florida’s 
75-55 win against Auburn on Jan. 15.
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Brianna Morgan hits a two-handed backhand during UF’s win against Elon on Saturday. Morgan clinched UF’s win against Maryland on Sun -
day, securing Florida’s spot in the ITA National Indoor Championships. 
Brianna Morgan clinched the match
W-TENNIS , from page 13
HOOPS , from page 13Free throw shooting 
woes continue for UF
UF sank 13 free throws to ice the win
Miller wasn’t the only Florida guard who got back on 
track against Arkansas (11-8, 1-6 SEC).
Carlie Needles also scored 16 points for the Gators, 
including a perfect 8-of-8 mark from the free throw line. 
All of her attempts came in the final two minutes of the game, when the Razorbacks began fouling Florida to try and cut the lead to a reachable margin.
But Needles and Ronni Williams made sure Florida 
wouldn’t blow this double-digit lead like the team did against LSU on Jan. 2. The pair made 13 consecutive free throws in the final 1:42, ensuring Florida its second con-ference victory.
“We do our best work when we are energized,” Nee-
dles said. “We play our best when we are celebrating the little things and the big things.”
Florida played with a more relaxed mindset, some-thing that was clear from the opening minutes. Butler altered the starting lineup yet again, something she’s tinkered with often throughout the season. The eighth-year coach chose to start all three of Florida’s freshmen – Haley Lorenzen, Brooke Copeland and Dyandria An-derson.
It would end up being Lorenzen who would deliver 
the needed intensity that the team has so badly craved at the tip-off. The forward from Iowa City, Iowa scored eight of the Gators’ first 12 points, and finished the game with 12 points, all in the first half.
“I knew my team was with me and we came out with 
a lot of energy,” Lorenzen said. “Coach Butler had put a lot of confidence in me, because we were talking about the post needing more shots. I was just feeling confident and that this was going to be my game.”
Kayla Lewis provided 10 points and six rebounds for 
the Gators, continuing her solid all-around play. Lewis, who has scored in double-digits 11 times this season, said the rest for the team was critical to the victory over the Razorbacks.
“We just needed to get our bodies right,” Lewis said. 
“We took two complete days off. Coach Butler told ev-eryone not to come in and use this unique opportuni-ty. When we all came back in on Wednesday we were ready to go.”W-HOOPS , from page 13
“We do our best work when we are 
energized. We play our best when we are 
celebrating the little things and the big 
things.”
Carlie Needles
UF guard“Kasey has got to 
recognize three and a 
half seconds, you got to 
get a shot up. You just 
got to stop and shoot 
the ball. His speed 
got him to that point 
which was good but he 
obviously probably took 
it a little too far.”
Billy Donovan
UF men’s basketball coachMONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
In a match that ultimately 
proved FC Bayern Munich to be 
the more talented side, the Flor-ida Gators held their own in the exhibition spring game played 
between the two clubs on Satur-
day night.
FC Bayern defeated Florida 
4-0, and looked like the profes-sional, world-renowned organi-zation that so many soccer fans have grown accustomed to see-ing. 
But the Gators did what many 
were not expecting of them – they put up a fight.
At halftime, the score was 1-0 
in favor of FC Bayern, the lone goal coming in the 37th minute from midfielder Vanessa Bürki. 
Florida’s defense was hold-
ing strong and redshirt sopho-more goalkeeper Valerie Tys-inger looked impressive in the net, making multiple challenging saves.
However, Florida could not keep up that level of play in the second half. Bayern added three more goals from Katie Stengel, Laura Feiersinger and Eunice Beckmann — the last coming off a rocket from about 30 yards out. 
The game was more valuable 
to the Gators than the scoreboard may reflect. 
The experience of playing 
such a talented team, and actu-ally sticking with them for the majority of the game, is priceless for this Florida squad, a team that is already looking forward to the fall season of 2015.
All in all, both teams were im-
pressive.
“I thought that we had some 
players who really stepped up to the challenge and I think our whole team, as a group, will leave this experience with some confidence,” Florida coach Becky Burleigh said. 
“Any time you can play qual-
ity players and quality teams and get some success out of it, that’s when you’re gonna grow.”UF soccer learns from 4-0 
loss to FC Bayern Munich
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF junior defender Claire Falknor passes the ball during the second half of Florida’s 4-0 
loss to FC Bayern Munich at James G. Pressly Stadium.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Meggie Dougherty-Howard races down the pitch for the ball during the second half.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
FC Bayern Munich midfielder Leonie Maier (middle) kicks the ball during the first half.Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF forward Cassie Owens (18) chases down FC Bayern Munich attacker Vanessa Bürki.GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
Rhonda Faehn is still win-
less in Tuscaloosa.
No. 1 Florida (2-1, 1-1 
Southeastern Conference) suf-
fered its first loss of the season at No. 7 Alabama (2-1, 1-1 SEC) Friday night, showing signs of a young team with little ex-perience performing in such a hostile environment.
Alabama’s performance 
was just the opposite, display-ing the determination of a team that wanted to prove last week’s loss to Arkansas was a 
fluke with flawless execution 
throughout the meet.“It’s re-
ally hard to find much 
positive (Fri-
day),” Faehn said. “When 
I look at the entirety of 
the competi-
tion, out of the 24 routines as 
opportunities, I think we may-be hit five clean routines with-
out a glaring error, so that’s 
very frustrating.”
The Gators put themselves 
behind the eight ball from the start, scoring a 48.950 on bars, 
with freshman Alex McMurtry 
leading the team with a 9.825. 
The Crimson Tide scored no 
worse than McMurtry’s 9.825 
in their first rotation as they 
scored a 49.500 on vault to take an early lead.
The balance beam was an-
other event of concern for the 
Gators. 
Freshman Kennedy Baker 
started the rotation off by fall-
ing within the first 10 seconds 
of her routine, putting the 
pressure on the rest of the line-up. And while they were able to avoid disaster from another fall, the rest of the routines 
were underwhelming except 
for sophomore Claire Boyce’s 9.900, leaving the team with a 49.000.
Faehn said she thought the 
poor first rotation sucked the life out of the team, and from then on there was a lack of en-ergy in each rotation.
“I’m looking for our upper-
classmen to really step up and show that energy,” she said. “I just felt, from the top down, 
other than Kytra (Hunter) we 
were just really timid.”
Faehn also said the atmo-
sphere in the Coleman Coli-seum combined with the ab-sence of junior Bridget Sloan’s energy on the competition 
floor contributed heavily to the 
team’s low energy level.
Florida’s second rotation — 
vault — was its most success-ful. 
Senior Kiersten Wang 
started the event off with a 9.900, and Hunter was able to execute a sensational routine 
that earned a 9.975. McMurtry 
followed that up with a 9.950, further cementing that she will be a major factor for the Gators as the season progresses.
Faehn said she hopes to see 
the freshman compete in the all-around competition in the near-future.
Kytra Hunter was the other 
bright spot of the evening for Florida. 
The senior took home her 
third-straight all-around title 
this year with a score of 39.550.
Florida’s road doesn’t get 
any easier, as its next meet will 
be against No. 10 Georgia on 
Friday in the O’Connell Cen-
ter.
But for now, Faehn said the 
team will need to take the ex-perience from Friday night and 
grow from it, because there are 
many more challenges yet to come this year.
“This is our first road com-
petition of a really challenging magnitude and it’s important for these athletes to be in that environment,” she said. “They need to see for themselves if 
they responded in the way 
that they wanted to or if they responded in a way that they didn’t want to, and to learn 
from it before we go into other 
road competitions that are go-ing to be equally if not more challenging.”16, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Kytra Hunter performs her floor exercise routine during Florida’s 
197.20-195.65 win against Auburn on Jan. 16. Hunter won the all-around in UF’s loss to Alabama on Friday in Tuscaloosa.
UF gymnastics stumbles in loss to Alabama
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer@Morgan_Moriarty
Florida’s 2015 recruiting class 
landed its ninth verbal commit-
ment on Sunday morning. 
Outside linebacker Rayshad 
Jackson (6-foot-1, 205 pounds, Miami Norland, Miami) verbally committed following his official 
visit over the weekend, as first re-
ported by ESPN’s Derek Tyson. 
Jackson, a two-star prospect 
per rivals.com, was visited by head coach Jim McElwain and as-
sociate head coach, co- defensive 
coordinator and linebackers coach Randy Shannon last Monday. 
This marks Florida’s first ver-
bal commitment from South Florida — the area that Shannon knows well and has cleaned up recruiting wise throughout his coaching career dating back to the 
University of Miami in the 1990s. 
Jackson chose Florida over Ar-
kansas, where Shannon coached 
last season. 
Jackson took an official visit to 
Arkansas last weekend. 
National Signing Day is only 10 
days away, and the coaching staff has a lot of work to do between 
now and then, but Jackson’s com-
mitment will give the Gators depth at the linebacker position.
Oral commitments are non-bind-
ing until a national letter of intent is signed on National Signing Day on Feb. 4.Linebacker 
commits to Florida
TENNIS
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
After a tough loss to Ole Miss on Day 1 
of the ITA Kick Off Weekend, Florida was 
determined to bring home a win Sunday morning in the tournament’s consolation match.
The No. 13 Gators did 
just that, defeating No. 30 
Stanford 4-2 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Florida (3-1) had a 
slow start against Stan-ford (1-2), losing the doubles point at home for the first time since 
its 4-3 loss to Georgia on 
March 16 — a span of eight home matches.
“I thought (Stanford) came out there 
and just played outstanding,” UF coach 
Bryan Shelton said. “Josh (Wardell) and Oliver (Landert) I think were caught on surprise a little bit on how affected those guys were.”But Florida has seen that clinching the 
doubles point does not guarantee a victory.
“We could of very easily lost that match 
after losing the doubles and just been like ‘Ah, it’s not our day again’ and lost, but all the guys stayed really positive,” junior 
captain Gordon Watson said.
Florida trailed 2-0 once singles play be-
gan after freshman Chase Perez-Blanco fell 
6-0, 6-1 to Stanford’s David Wilczynski on the No. 5 court. 
But redshirt freshman Oliver Landert, 
junior Diego Hidalgo and sophomore El-liot Orkin followed up with three straight victories to give UF a 3-2 lead, leaving Wat-
son challenged to bring home the go-ahead 
point for the Gators for the second straight match.
And this time, Watson was able to bring 
in the final point for Florida, finishing the second day of the ITA Tournament and adding a (4-2) win to Florida’s season.
“Coming back from (Saturday), there 
was no way I was losing that match,” Wat-
son said.Watson clinches UF win
 DRESSEL AND THEILMANN WON 
FIVE TOTAL FREESTYLE RACES.
MARY FRANCIS
Alligator Writer@Bymaryfrancis
Heading into the weekend with just 
two dual meets remaining in the season, 
the Florida swimming and diving teams looked to make a strong push to qualify their athletes for the NCAA Champion-
ship.
They staked their claim against Au-
burn on Saturday.
The No. 7 Florida men’s team (5-1, 3-1 
Southeastern Conference) defeated No. 6 
Auburn (3-4, 3-1 SEC), 158-142. 
The No. 8 UF women’s swimming and 
diving team (5-2, 4-2 SEC) defeated the No. 10 Tigers (6-2-1, 3-1-1 SEC), 152-148. 
Overall, Florida won 21 top finishes 
out of the 32 events and registered several NCAA ‘B’ provisional marks from the meet.
Freshman Caeleb Dressel finished first 
in the 50- and 100-yard freestyle, with times of 19.61 seconds and 43.88 seconds, respectively.
Junior Jessica Theilmann finished first 
in the 200-, 500- and 1,000-yard freestyle events at 1:48.79, 4:47.24 and 9:43.17, re-spectively.
For women’s diving, junior Kahlia 
Warner received the highest total points with 322.58.
Auburn senior Fraser McKean led the 
men’s diving portion, as he received a meet-high 385.35 points.
“Both squad’s showed a lot of charac-
ter in how they raced today,” coach Gregg Troy said in a release.
“We had a variety of people step up to 
score in key situations for us. We still have some technical issues to address but we are moving in the right direction.”UF swim teams top Auburn
Watson
Faehn
RECRUITING