By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
JACKSONVILLE — With Florida’s 27-3 win 
against Georgia on Saturday, the Gators ﬁ  nd 
themselves in a position they haven’t been in 
for six years.
UF is one win away from going to Atlanta 
— one win from a chance to win the South-
eastern Conference title.There’s only one team standing in the way 
of the Gators, and it will set its anchor down in Gainesville this weekend: the Vanderbilt Com-modores.
While Vanderbilt (3-5, 1-3 SEC) has shown 
improvement this season — the team has al-ready matched its 2014 win total with three wins — most didn’t expect Florida (7-1, 5-1 SEC) to be in the driver’s seat when the calen-
dar hit November.
But coach Jim McElwain was not one of those doubters.
In fact, when asked if he expected the 
Gators to be one win away from clinching the SEC East, the ﬁ  rst-year UF coach had a re-
sounding answer.
“Yeah, I did. Because I don’t expect to 
lose,” McElwain said. “We should never go 
into an event thinking we’re going to come in 
second.”
Florida last clinched a trip to the SEC Cham-
pionship game in 2009 with a win over Geor-gia and a South Carolina loss on Halloween.
The Gators faced off against Nick Saban 
and Alabama, with McElwain on the sideline in the Georgia Dome as the Crimson Tide’s of-fensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach. McElwain’s offense racked up 490 yards en 
route to a 32-13 beatdown of Florida. Alabama 
would go on to win the national title.
The 2012 season aside — when the Gators 
went 11-2 — Florida has been in a tailspin as a 
program ever since. 
However, in just eight games, McElwain 
has led the program back into a position it was 
constantly in during the glory days of Steve Spurrier and Urban Meyer. The turnaround of We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 50 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
Gators remain unsurprised 
by program’s revival
Read sports editor Graham Hall’s column, 
pg. 13
Engineers design drones in new club
The club is called Unmanned Aerial Gators, pg. 3
GNV couple transform home for Halloween
It took two days to transform the home into a spooky cemetery, pg. 5The Fest
Check out the music festival in our photo story,  pg. 8
UF looks to remain beasts of the East after UGA win 
Gators are eyeing SEC Title game
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
GEORGIA 3 FLORIDA 27
Danger Zone: Norman Hall is falling apart
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Stepping into Norman Hall is 
like stepping back in time.
Narrow hallways lined with 
brown lockers are a tribute to the 
building’s origins as a K-12 school. Its red brick exterior dates back to the 1930s.
But the historic building’s char-
acter and charm are lost in its prob-lems.
Holes in rotting windows are 
bandaged with black duct tape to 
keep out bugs and water. Students 
sit in classrooms affected by mold, mildew, asbestos, ﬂ  ooding, loose bricks, loose roof tiles and lead 
paint. 
But now, students are speak-
ing out for Norman to get the state 
funding they say it needs.
Without renovation, the build-
ing is a safety hazard and could become condemned.
Problems
One day in class, Gayle Evans 
had an unexpected visitor.
While she was teaching, the UF 
science teacher saw a rodent run across the classroom.
“Fortunately, I was the only one 
who saw,” she said.
However, the rodents leave 
their mark. They nibble on equip-ment in the building’s science lab, 
she said.
Caitlin Gallingane, a clinical as-
sistant professor, wrote in an email 
the crayons left on her bookshelf in the 2400 wing are partially eaten.
The building isn’t sealed off, 
which exposes it to animals and Florida’s unpredictable weather.
But it’s looked the same since 
1932, back when it was home to the students of  P. K. Yonge Labo-ratory School. It was a state-of-the-art building where teachers learned to teach, said Glenn Good, the dean 
of the College of Education.
It was built facing 13th Street. 
About 60 years ago, the College of 
Education moved in from Peabody 
Hall. In 1979, UF built an addition, 
New Norman, which faces 12th Street.
The college is now home to 
about 2,800 students, a number 
that is expected to grow by 20 per-
cent in the next ﬁ  ve years, Good said.
But in its current state, it’s not 
safe for students.
“I don’t want to alarm students 
and employees,” Good said, “but we also have had to put caution tape routinely because bricks will 
fall off the side of the building from 
three stories up, and the rooﬁ  ng 
SEE NORMAN,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Science competition
Applications for the 53rd 
Annual Junior Science, 
Engineering and Humanities 
Symposium (JSEHS) high school science research com-petition are due Nov. 9. 
Eleventh and 12th grade stu-
dents who have conducted original STEM research are encouraged to apply. Best-in-state winners receive college 
scholarship awards to the in-
stitution of their choice and a sponsored trip to the national competition for the opportu-
nity to win up to $16,000 in 
additional scholarship money. Faculty and STEM research staff interested in outreach are encouraged to sign up to host 
a lab tour or serve as a paper 
reviewer or competition judge. For more information, contact the UF Center for Precollegiate 
Education and Training at 
jsehs@cpet.ufl.edu or visit cpet.ufl.edu, or call 352-392-2310.
International Trivia Challenge
Trivia will be sponsored by the International Center in celebration of International 
Education Week Friday, Nov. 
20 at 3 p.m. at the Hub. Come have fun while putting your world trivia knowledge to the test for International 
Education Week. Teams will 
have a chance to compete for the title of International Trivia Champions! The competition 
games will include subjects 
such as currency, geography, languages, flags, culinary and more.To sign up, send the name 
of your team and team mem-
bers (max. four players) and their email addresses to Alexis Weisman at aweisman@ufic.
ufl.edu.  Space is limited, so 
sign up today.
Festive, Fun Holiday Shopping! 
Would you like to kick off 
your holiday shopping in a 
joyful and friendly atmosphere with music, refreshments and a wide variety of unique gifts 
to choose from at reasonable 
prices? Holy Trinity Episcopal Church’s highly anticipated, annual Holiday Bazaar opens at 7 p.m. Friday, Nov. 20, 
with a $5 entrance fee at the door.  Featured will be attic 
treasures, designer seasonal 
decorations, unique jewelry, 
hand-painted furniture, home-made baked goods and much more. The Bazaar continues (no fee) Nov. 21 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m. with lunch available 
from 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. and Nov. 22 from noon to 2 p.m.  The church hopes to see 
you at Holy Trinity Episcopal  
Church, located at 100 NE First Street.  
ISTEAM seminar: Gaze-driven 
Video ReeditingProfessor Eakta Jain (CISE) will speak Wednesday from 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. in 
Marston Science Library, 
L136. Today, there is a huge variety of digital displays we can use to view videos. Most people spend more time on 
their phone screens than large 
displays. But movies are origi-nally created for widescreen format. How would you pres-
ent a widescreen movie on a 
small screen? How would a computer algorithm do this? There will be a discussion on how insights from computer 
graphics, visual perception 
and cinematography come to-gether to create algorithms for reediting widescreen videos 
via automatic pans, cuts and 
zooms.
New theatre troupe
The Center for Arts in 
Medicine, Dean of Students 
and STRIVE seek culturally di-verse individuals interested in social justice for a new theatre 
troupe that uses the power of 
the arts to prevent interper-sonal violence. Become part of the movement to eliminate stigma, build awareness and 
educate your peers. The club 
will provide training and op-portunities; you provide pas-sion, talent, energy and drive.  
No prior theatre experience re-
quired. Contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu. This club meets Tuesdays at UF in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre 
and Dance Pavilion in Studio 
G15 starting Nov. 17 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Trainings and select performances scheduled 
for Spring 2016.  
RecSports three-on-three 
Soccer TournamentDo you and two other friends 
enjoy playing soccer? This 
is the perfect tournament for 
you. The three-on-three soc-cer tournament is fast paced with each team having just three players on the field and 
a maximum of six on the ros-
ter. Make sure to register by Wednesday at noon to have your chance to take home the 
gold. The tournament will 
take place Nov. 8 to 15.
Drive a tractor at the fall fes-
tival
The Agronomy-Soils Club 
presents the annual Fall Festival Wednesday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the 
Agronomy Teaching Farm, lo-
cated at 2024 IFAS Research Drive. Activities include free food, games, harvesting crops, driving a tractor and more. 
Support the field and fork pan-
try with a nonperishable dona-tion as admission.
Group Fitness Training Course 
AuditionDo you enjoy taking Group Fitness classes through RecSports? Have you always 
wanted to be the one teach-
ing the class? You now have a chance to audition to take the Group Fitness Training 
Course. Auditions will take 
place Nov. 12. Make sure to register on RSconnect.recs-ports.ufl.edu to save your spot in the audition!  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 50
HIGH  90° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Monday - Friday
Appointments &
Walk-Ins AvailableGround Floor, Reitz Union
352-379-46868 AM TO 5 PMWe can help
you look fantasticfor Homecoming!
Professional 
haircuts & styles 
for men and women
CAMPUS
By Kathryn Mellinger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Is it a bird? Is it a plane? 
Actually, it’s a drone.As drones continue to circulate the sky and 
media, a group of UF students created an outlet to make their own on campus.
JeanCarlos Asencio started Unmanned 
Aerial Gators this semester after noticing UF students didn’t have an avenue to create their own drones, unmanned aerial vehicles used for anything from spying on foreign countries to taking selﬁ  es.
“Many universities have clubs catered to 
people interested in drones, and I always won-dered why UF did not, especially considering 
its substantial background in aeronautics and 
micro-aerial vehicle design,” the UF aerospace engineering sophomore said.
Asencio, 19, joined forces with Eric Wag-
ner, a UF mechanical engineering senior and 
the club’s external vice president. The Un-
manned Aerial Gators will be led by Peter Ifju, a professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering and the co-program director and aerospace lead of the UF Unmanned Aircraft Systems Research Program.
“We were able to round up others who were 
also interested in drones and come up with a game plan,” Wagner, 21, said. “Having other 
people interested in the technology helped all 
of the pieces come together and drove us to start the organization.”
About 50 students attended the ﬁ  rst meet-
ing Oct. 14.
With Ifju’s guidance, the organization’s ﬁ  rst 
project will be the development of a quadcop-ter, which is a hovering helicopter-like vehicle with four separate propellers. The members said they are hoping to fundraise about $1,000.
The vehicle will have a camera to capture 
live video so the team members can view the device’s surroundings in real time and enhance its autonomous ﬂ  ight capability.
The team members said they plan to create 
the quadcopter and use it to compete interna-
tionally next Spring, but it’s still in the design 
phase.“It’s all ideas, it’s all modeling, it’s all put-
ting the concepts and pieces together,” Wagner said.
The Unmanned Aerial Gators will have to 
face the strict regulations of the Federal Avia-tion Administration, which deﬁ  nes the condi-tions under which devices can and can’t ﬂ  y in public.
The organization is hoping to bypass the 
FAA’s monthslong permit process by getting permission to ﬂ  y in UF-owned airspaces or the new indoor football practice facility.
The members said they’re enthused about 
learning together and developing new devices.
“The sky’s the limit as far as drone develop-
ment is concerned — both literally and ﬁ  gu-ratively,” Ifju said. “It’s only up to the imagi-nation of people to deﬁ  ne what’s next with drones.”
Undergraduate engineers design drones in new club 
“Having other people interested in 
the technology helped all of the pieces 
come together and drove us to start the 
organization.”
Eric Wagner
UF mechanical engineering senior Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
T erri Cosner, a co-owner of Waters Edge Creations from Sebastian, Florida, strings pieces of glass to 
make wind chimes at the Micanopy Fall Festival on Sunday. She and co-owner Carol Frey sell wind chimes and mobiles made from recycled stained glass, wine bottles and beach glass.
RIGHT:
Deborah Mas spins alpaca ﬂ  eece into yarn and greets customers passing through her booth during the Micanopy Fall Festival on Saturday. She said she breeds alpacas in Chieﬂ  and, Florida, and dyes yarn made from their ﬂ  eece, which she then weaves into make mats and scarves.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Fall Festivities4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
tiles fall off and it’s potentially le-
thal.”
Most of the issues come through 
the windows, which are in their 
original form and have not been replaced in 82 years, Good said. 
Age has taken its toll and exposed 
the building to rain and humidity through multiple holes.
Good said faculty and staff, who 
work in the building eight to 10 hours a day, are mostly concerned about mold and mildew.
“There’s some spaces that we 
may have to condemn and close off 
because we can’t manage the mold 
successfully because (of) the mois-ture from the windows,” Good said.
Faculty and staff have removed 
papers and books in some of the rooms and offices to keep the mold and mildew from getting worse, he said.
Evans said one professor had a 
bloom of black mold coming out of her air vent. She was displaced while the mold was removed and painted 
over, but now she avoids spending 
too much time there.
Good said the building could be-
come uninhabitable.
“We don’t want to lose Norman 
Hall, but that’s kind of the option,” he said. “Either we renovate it or we lose it.”
Maintenance Attempts
Last year, the computer server 
room flooded twice, Good said.
It led to the loss of about $100,000 
in hardware, said Tom Dana, an as-sociate dean for the College of Edu-cation. 
The flooding occurred Sept. 2014 
when the water pipe burst after 5 p.m. No one was in the building. When the servers went down, the technical staff went to see what hap-pened. By then, much of the equip-
ment was damaged.
As a precaution, computers have 
been moved to places less likely to 
flood, Dana said. The computers are 
about five to seven years old and 
cost about $1,000 to $1,500 each.When the water pipe burst in 
Norman Hall, the college was left without running water for several weeks, Good said.
The break required the water to 
be shut off for the entire building, said Gregg Clarke, the director of op-erations for the physical plant.
New Norman was built on top of 
the water supply line to Old Norman, which makes the water line inacces-sible to workers, he said. A new wa-ter line had to be built, which cost 
$45,800 and took several weeks, UF 
spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
No one could use the drinking 
fountains or the bathrooms. Faculty and staff would run across the street to the Campus USA Credit Union on Fifth Avenue to use the restrooms, said Pam Johnson, the manager at 
the time.
Most of Norman’s maintenance 
work orders attempt to prevent fu-
ture breakages or leaks, Clarke said.
In the last fiscal year, which ran 
from July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015, there were 245 preventative main-tenance work orders for Old Nor-man and 92 for New Norman, he said. UF’s Physical Plant spent 2,318 
hours at Norman the last fiscal year, 
not including custodial services.
The cost of maintenance for Old 
Norman was $185,700, while New Norman was $126,600 and Little Hall was $122,700, Sikes said.
UF is in the planning stages of ren-
ovating room 10D to remove a high 
level of lead paint from the walls, 
Sikes said. The cost and completion date haven’t been determined.
Re-roofing is also a necessary 
project, she said. It will cost an es-timated $650,000, and a steampipe upgrade will cost an estimated $20,000.
Money from the state would 
take care of the most deadly threats, 
Good said.
Lack of Funding 
UF’s Student Government has 
recognized that the building’s condi-
tions require lobbying for $8 million, 
said Matthew Hoeck, SG’s external 
affairs director.
A total of $24.4 million is needed 
to complete Norman’s necessary renovations, and the additional $16.4 million will be lobbied in fu-ture sessions.
The initiative to renovate Nor-
man began last year, but Gov. Rick Scott vetoed its funding.
Scott approved UF’s first two 
items: money to renovate the Engi-
neering Building and money to fix 
the boiler system, Hoeck said. Scott vetoed Norman’s funding because there was “no identifiable statewide 
impact,” according to a prepared let-
ter.
Now, SG is collecting support 
through a change.org petition. As of press time, more than 750 people 
have signed and students have left 
comments advocating for the reno-vation.
SG has tentatively planned a Nov. 
17 lobbying trip to Tallahassee for students to voice their opinions in the state capitol, said UF Sen. Mad-die McClinton (Independent, Educa-tion).
“We’re gonna keep reminding 
(the legislature) of that until it hap-pens,” she said.  
Limitations
Elizabeth Bondy, a professor 
for the UF School of Teaching and Learning, has been teaching in Nor-man since 1989.
She sees a future for Norman. She 
sees the community coming together in Norman for family programs.
It just isn’t possible in its current 
condition.
“It’s a wonderful facility, but it’s 
very limiting,” she said.
She said she imagines Norman 
with large, spacious rooms that can 
be divided into smaller sections with 
screens. It also needs to be more ac-cessible for families with disabled children.  
Gallingane, whose crayons are 
eaten by rodents, said the building’s one elevator breaks down too often to be reliable.
“As far as the elevator, it goes out 
of service more often than is accept-able,” Gallingane said. “The elevator is the only handicapped-accessible way out of the Norman Addition.”
Todd McCardle, a second-year 
UF curriculum and instruction doc-
toral student, said he came to UF 
for the faculty, not the building. But the state of the building makes him question UF’s ability to be competi-
tive for the best and the brightest of 
faculty and students. 
The 37-year-old said he worries 
Norman Hall’s condition could turn away potential graduate and doc-toral students.
“I feel insulted being in there,” he 
said.
When Olivia Johnston, a 19-year-
old art education freshman, came to UF, she said she imagined herself learning art education in new, mod-
ern classrooms.
When she saw Norman the first 
day of the Fall semester, she said she 
was shocked to find few outlets, bro-ken microphones and chalkboards. 
Coming from Lincoln Park Academy 
in Fort Pierce, she was used to using a lot of technology.
Like Norman, Lincoln Park’s 
middle school building did not age gracefully. But it was torn down while she was a high school student, she said.
“For me, it’s kind of like going 
through the same experience all over again,” she said.
Upgrades would be ideal, but for 
now, the college’s faculty is con-
cerned with safety.
“At some point, you either have 
to fix it or close it,” Good said. “I 
don’t want to see someone get hurt before they make that decision.”NORMAN,  from pg1It needs $24.4 million in renovations
RIGHT:
In the basement of Norman 
Hall, the doors of Room 1D lead into an area contami-nated with mildew and rotting pipes. The room is off limits to students because of health and safety concerns.
BELOW:
Glenn Good, the dean of the UF College of Education, scratches at flaking paint and rotting wood in a third-floor room of Norman Hall on Oct. 19. Holes in the windows allow bugs, rodents and water into the building.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffBlack duct tape attempts to keep bugs and water out of Norman Hall. The windows have not been replaced or renovated in 82 years.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local 
man Thursday evening after police 
said he attempted sexual battery on Tuesday. 
At about 1:30 a.m. Tuesday, John-
Phillip Rogers, 24, tried to talk with the woman as she walked down the stairs of an apartment in the 1700 block of Northwest Third Place, ac-cording to a police report. Rogers, who is also a resident of the apart-ment complex, followed the woman to the parking lot where he then dragged her behind a car, according 
to the report. 
He pulled the woman’s dress up to 
her stomach and placed his hand over 
her mouth. Rogers told the woman he would shoot her if she kept scream-ing, according to the report. Someone passing by interrupted Rogers, who stopped trying to unbutton his pants and ran, according to the report. The woman helped police create a sketch and later picked him from a photo lineup, according to the report. 
A detective walked around the 
apartment com-
plex and spotted 
Rogers, whom he 
thought resem-bled the woman’s description, GPD spokesman Of-ﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said. Rogers told police he was in 
the complex when the assault took place, but he denied attacking the woman, according to the report. He could not be reached for comment as of press time. Police charged Rogers with attempted sexual battery and took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Sunday morn-ing on a $75,000 bond.Police arrest man for 
attempted sexual battery
Rogers
By Jessica Morales 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Every Halloween, Jami and Mark Thomas 
transform their front yard. 
The typical tufts of grass at 2705 NW 50th 
Place become Kimber Hollow, a fog-ﬁ  lled 
cemetery ﬁ  lled with pumpkins, potions and 
skeletons. 
It’s a tradition the couple has upheld for 
the past ﬁ  ve years as they hand out pounds 
of candy to visitors. This year, they estimated they gave out about 41 pounds of candy to about 500 people as part of what they hope is a memorable experience. 
“Every little kid that comes up and maybe 
gets a little spooked, not quite terriﬁ  ed out of their wits but maybe a little bit scared, gets their reward for a bit of bravery,” Mark said. “That’s somebody who might very well go away and have a memory that’s going to last them until they’re adults and they do it for other little kids.”
It took them two days and about $1,000 to fully furnish the front of their home, in-cluding $250 spent speciﬁ  cally on candy and 
chocolate. 
As visitors walked up the driveway, they 
passed a pumpkin patch ﬁ  lled with both 
papier-mache and handpainted pumpkins before crossing through a cemetery ﬁ  lled with handmade tombstones and entering the apothecary by the door of the house. 
The tradition began as a tribute to Jami’s 
favorite holiday.
“We’re completely dorks,” Mark said. Debra Carter, 28, heard about the event 
after searching for Halloween events on Google.
“I love the effects of the fog,” Carter said, who was dressed up in a Day of the Dead costume. It’s very mysterious.”
Neighbors said they think what the cou-
ple does every year is great.
“A lot of dedication and work went into 
it,” said Avo Oymayan, who lives to the left of the cemetery. “We like it. It’s deﬁ  nitely bringing people to the neighborhood.”
Next year, the couple hopes to expand 
their decorations to their backyard.
Mark said he plans on moving the grave-
yard to the backyard for more lighting op-tions and possibly adding a psychopathic scientist’s laboratory.
“We try to tell a story, but sometimes the 
story tells itself,”  he said. Gainesville couple transforms home for Halloween 
They gave out 41 pounds of candy
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
BREWERY YOGA
Aidan McCormich, a Florida Museum of Natural History employee who has been doing yoga for three 
years, stretches at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Sunday. About 100 people participated in a Ha-tha yoga class taught by Brielle Jenkins, a UF student pursuing her Registered Yoga T eacher certiﬁ  cation.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Why study the humanities? There’s a good reason
“También No-hacer es creador, pues 
no sólo de hacer vive el hombre”-  -Gonzalo Arango
This week, The Economist de-
buted its ﬁ  rst-ever college rankings. 
Yale University ﬂ  unked, and came in at No. 1,270 out of 1,275. A host of no-name pharmacy col-leges fared better. Its criterion: “Which colleges do most for their graduates’ pay-packets.”
Two days earlier, the world tuned in to the 
Republican primary debate. A brain surgeon who acts as if he’s suffered a few undiagnosed strokes himself ar-gued for a tithe while twittering his “gifted hands.” The ousted CEO of the company that made my shitty printer argued for 
trimming bureaucratic fat but stayed mum on the 30,000 lay-
offs she oversaw. A real estate executive who likes to marry Eastern European women insulted the soft-spoken governor of Ohio who called frontrunners’ platforms “fantasy.” 
In our culture, Ben Carson could conclude the ﬁ  rst Repub-
lican primary debate by bragging he’s the “only one to have separated Siamese twins,” or Donald Trump boasting about his private wealth, or Carly Fiorina regarding the merger of HP and Compaq. Our polity worships ﬁ  nancial and medical 
success, even in the absence of minimal knowledge of world 
affairs. Something is rotten in the state of Florida. We can’t separate the ﬁ  nancial valuation of universities from our mon-ey-crazed GOP race. We’ve gone to Preview, where, as Eng-lish junior Jack Edmondson remembers, “Everyone told you to become an engineer.” UF’s catalog’s headline for the Eng-lish major reads: “Undergraduate study in English prepares students for diverse careers in law, publishing, advertising, media and business, teaching and advanced degree work.” 
Note what comes last. A professor of mine once said students 
should learn to write poetry in order to write emails. But if we study English for portable skills, why not ﬁ  re brilliant scholars like him and switch to copy-editing instructors?
Under Gov. Rick Scott, who proposed shifting funds to 
STEM my ﬁ  rst Fall here, and discounting STEM’s tuition my second, I’ve long felt on the defensive. Many literature stu-dents I’ve talked to have had buyer’s regret. I understand: Why bother taking a course instead of reading the syllabus?
Through my interviews, I have tried to ﬁ  gure 
it out. Professor Kligerman described the rush of ﬁ  nishing his oral exit exams and his caring profes-
sors; Professor Schuering described the alienation 
and excitement of leaving home, and the passion of classrooms. I once teared up as Professor Rylko-va compared the loss of provincial Russian life in “The Cherry Orchard” to our current trimming of the humanities: We just can’t afford the cherry or-
chard. So, what are we saving up for? Razing bookstores and erecting blood plasma centers? Mark Edmundson writes in “Why Teach?” it’s hard to defend a liberal arts education to 
someone who hasn’t had one. This explains the overwhelm-
ing plurality of vocational degrees on our Board of Trustees.
For me, the study of literature, culture and history as if 
they mattered taught me compassion, breadth and perspec-tive. It taught me how little I knew and how to learn. In Elena Ferrante and Karl Ove Knausgård’s recent gargantuan mem-oirs, they capture the freedom of literature education, and of writing life into something valuable. I quivered at the Hialeah Metrorail transfer one evening, last winter, reading Knaus-
gård on discovering modernism: “our ludicrously inconse-
quential lives…had a part…in the supreme…you only had to read.” And the other day, I read a Susan Shapiro interview: “Bob Dylan said when he ﬁ  rst heard Elvis Presley, it was like breaking out of jail. That’s how it was for me with the confes-sionals.” As Goethe wrote, “He who does not know how to give himself an account of three thousand years may remain in the dark, inexperienced, and live from day to day.” The Swamp isn’t interwar Paris, and as Mark McGurl writes in 
“The Program Era,” the college teacher has replaced Gertrude 
Stein. We need authors, editors and reﬂ  ective citizens who think beyond bottom lines. We need university spaces of free thought, exploration and critical reﬂ  ection, because the beau-ty of life is superﬁ  cial: The rest is shitting, pissing and dying. We need more than printers and money and a brain stem.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Mutual respect 
ought to trump 
diﬀ  erences
Last week, The Atlantic published a video titled, “What Will This Era Be Remembered For?” as one part of a se-ries of videos covering last month’s Washington Ideas Forum 2015. In the video, policy leaders such as U.S. At-torney General Loretta Lynch and Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development Julián Castro responded to the ques-tion by expressing hope that their respective areas of political interest would undergo meaningful progress.
Being college students, that most selﬁ  sh and self-absorbed 
breed of person, we read the same question and came up with a different interpretation of the inquiry: “What Kind Of Person Will This Era Be Remembered For?”  
As any student of pop culture could tell you, different de-
cades breed different blends of young people. The ‘50s gave 
us Allen Ginsbergs and Jack Kerouacs, but it also birthed more 
“Ron Howard in ‘The Andy Grifﬁ  th Show’” types than we’re comfortable with. The ‘60s had hippies, and the ‘70s carried the torch of the counterculture movement before the material-ism and selﬁ  shness of Reagan-Era ‘80s kids put a ﬁ  rm stop to that. Young men and women of the ‘90s have been referred to as “slackers” for quite some time now, and we’re too close to the aughts to make any deﬁ  nitive statements on that lovely bunch.
Which brings us here: What attitudes, characteristics and 
actions are going to deﬁ  ne us, the future hags and cranks of the mid-21st century who came of age in the ‘10s? Keeping in mind both Halloween and recent local events, one need look no further than the Florida-Georgia game and Fest 14 in order to conjure some vague deﬁ  nition of what is going to deﬁ  ne us.
There is no disputing that when movies are going to be 
made about the ‘10s, you’re going to see a lot of high-waisted shorts, groomed beards and people deliberately ignoring the 
world around them in order to be on their phones: These are 
non-negotiable certainties. But as far as the more subtle stuff goes — the attitudes, ﬁ  rmly held beliefs and slang — that’s slightly trickier.
We live in a time of polarization. You’re either a ﬁ  lthy 
commie-pinko lefty, or a staunch, racist conservative. You’re either a monstrous misogynist of a frat bro, or a hypocriti-cal elitist of a “hipster.” If John Hughes’ movies or “Dazed and Confused” taught us anything, it’s even the unlikeliest 
of people can become friends. Forgive us if we’re being cyni-
cal, but we somehow doubt you would have seen a single Ralph Lauren-adorned bro at Lot 10 on Saturday, or a tattooed, bearded gentleman rocking a No Idea Records T-shirt in Jack-sonville this past weekend.
Without becoming yet another technology-skeptical edito-
rial, by plugging in, we exist in self-perpetuating bubbles that reinforce our preconceived notions about the world. The ‘10s have been marked by hostility and debates over the merits or 
lack thereof as it pertains to different subcultures. But have we 
ever tried, you know, being decent to one another? The dude brandishing a Morrissey tee doesn’t have to love football, but he doesn’t have to think lesser of those that do. Likewise, it would be nice for one to be able to walk through Midtown on a Friday night without fear of being called a “faggot” for wearing nail polish or something not traditionally masculine.
It’s pretty goddamn simple. Rather than be deﬁ  ned by our 
differences, let’s try being deﬁ  ned by mutual respect and — 
gasp — humanity.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Assaulting a stu-
dent should never be a dis-ciplinary mea-sure, especially 
when the offense is as harmless as using a cell-phone in school. And yet, a police ofﬁ  cer saw it ﬁ  t to ﬂ  ip a girl’s desk over. Police ofﬁ  cers are meant to keep people safe, so what went wrong?
These students are children; 
any disciplinary matters should be handled by teachers and prin-cipals, not police ofﬁ  cers.
Refusing to hand in a cell-
phone does not warrant being tackled. It’s ridiculous that this topic is even being debated be-cause it’s an abundantly clear overuse of force. Disobeying an 
order is not enough to warrant 
force, as the student was not do-ing anything that posed danger to herself, her teacher or those around her. Having a police ofﬁ  -cer handle disciplinary actions is a clear illustration of how schools have been viewing their students as potential criminals. The school 
had several options with which to 
approach discipline, with none of them requiring assault.
Raven-Symoné and other ce-
lebrities have blamed the girl for breaking the school rules, but this is an issue that goes much deep-er than that: It’s systemic. This video was not about one student breaking a rule, it was indica-tive of a problem that is multi-faceted and can’t 
simply be explained by 
the student’s behavior.
It may have been an 
issue of race.
While there are 
many who still believe 
the Black Lives Matter movement is irrelevant and its slogan should be “all lives matter,” the issue of 
discipline in schools highlights 
the importance of emphasizing black lives, as it is black students who get disproportionately sus-pended.
It’s important to point out that 
overzealous school discipline and police brutality affects black stu-dents more profoundly. An “all 
lives matter” approach makes 
it seem like these problems are experienced equally by all races when that is simply just not true. Police ofﬁ  cers are not supposed to attack the communities they are meant to protect. If black stu-dents are not seen as valuable in the classroom, it’s not a sur-
prise that this sentiment carries 
throughout their lives. It’s time for a change that puts an empha-sis on understanding students be-fore harshly disciplining them.
Nicole Dan is a UF political 
science sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays. Classroom assault highlights 
another discussion about raceColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgI want to make my intentions perfectly clear: I want Ann Coulter, the conserva-tive ﬁ  rebrand and provocateur, to speak at UF. In fact, the event should be re-quired for everyone to attend. If a stu-
dent values his or her education, listening to Coulter speak is a must.
Before I go into why I think Coulter 
would be a great lecturer, I want to say I can already hear the complaints and misgivings over such an event. Some students will un-doubtedly protest this speaking engagement. Some will write angry columns in newspapers lambasting Coulter and her views. The reasons for such a backlash will 
hover around the fact that a Trump-supporting, pro-
life, anti-immigrant, Bible-thumping, gun-toting pundit on the right that says outlandish statements should never speak on campus.
However, I believe Coulter should speak for these 
very reasons.
Saying Coulter is a ﬁ  rebrand is an understatement. 
Her most recent book, “Adios, America: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country Into a Third World Hellhole,” 
takes no prisoners. The subtitle itself is enough to make 
any American recoil. As a main-street conservative who knows Coulter’s shtick, I immediately disregarded the book and her views. When I had heard her say Mitt Romney’s idea of illegal immigrants self-deporting is not as crazy as people think, I ignored her message even more.
Little did I realize, I was denying myself the oppor-
tunity to listen to a very smart (Ivy-League educated) 
and rhetorically gifted speaker explain a view and dis-
position many Americans share. Additionally, her tell-it-like-it-is and brash speaking style is entertaining, to say the least.
So, I decided to listen to her speaking engagements 
during her book tour. And as it turns out, I found Coul-ter’s arguments extremely detailed and persuasive. I was impressed by the thoughtfulness of the book’s main thrust — she backed up her opinions with cold, 
hard facts. I was shocked about how little I actually 
knew about the immigration system. In retrospect, lis-tening to Coulter’s speaking engagements was beneﬁ  cial. After all, I know many con-servatives devour Coulter’s writing and help her achieve The New York Time’s bestsell-ing author status.
To be fair, I do not support all of the 
ideas Coulter mentions in her book and I do not necessarily agree with her pugna-cious approach to issues. But I do appreci-ate the fact that such a talented individual gave such a full-throated, passionate and 
unapologetic account of an extremely divisive stance on an extremely divisive issue. Such an account takes bravery, especially when our culture and media are so 
willing to haphazardly throw words like “nativist” and 
“racist” around.
Despite having a person speak about political posi-
tions most UF students have never encountered — and probably don’t condone — that would beneﬁ  t everyone involved, I am conﬁ  dent this speaking event would nev-er happen. Students would say Coulter is too provoca-tive and try to cancel the event. We only like speakers to visit campus if they agree with what we believe. Just 
this past month, we invited the overwhelmingly liberal 
voices of Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Jim Obergefell, the lead plaintiff in the Supreme Court case that legal-ized gay marriage, to speak on campus. Where’s the diversity in that?   
I truly believe many students — especially students 
on the left — have never had their political views chal-lenged before. These students should welcome a speak-er like Coulter who would really take them to task.
The best part about going to college is the ability 
to engage with people of different life experiences and opinions. That’s how we learn. However, can you name one Trump-supporting, pro-life, anti-immigrant, Bible-thumping, gun-toting professor or student who says outlandish statements?
Exactly. We need this voice on campus. We need 
this teachable moment. We need Ann Coulter to speak on campus. Our education depends on it.    
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Controversial Ann Coulter must speak at UFColumn
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
Title Fight, a punk rock band from Kingston, Pennsylvania, per-
forms at City Lot 10 during The Fest on Friday. More than 400 tick-ets were sold for the show. 
Thousands of indie en-thusiasts and punk rock fans swarmed the scene in downtown Gainesville this weekend. About 400 
bands performed on Friday, Sat-urday and Sunday for the an-nual music festival known as The Fest. No Idea Records drew guests from around the world to 21 venues for the 14th year. Fans came from countries as far as Russia and Australia. 
Photos by Andrea Cornejo
 Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
Festivalgoers wait to snack on hot dogs from a Nathan’s Famous food stand across the street from City Lot 10 during The Fest on Saturday. 
TOP RIGHT:
LeAnn Marie, a self-employed massage therapist, shows off her Halloween costume at The Fest on Saturday. “I made the costume myself, ” she said. “I’m a bird goddess. ” 
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Adam Mendez, a FedEx Ground employee, spray paints a van downtown during The Fest on Saturday. Mendez said he traveled from Califor-nia to see Masked Intruder and Young Widows perform at the music festival. By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested 
an Old Town, Florida, man after 
police said he robbed two Wells 
Fargo locations in Gainesville in 
the span of a month.
At about 3:50 p.m. Oct. 1, 
Donald Richard, 56, approached 
a teller at the Wells Fargo on Ar-
cher Road and gave them a note that said he was armed, GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in a series of emails.
He walked away with an un-
disclosed amount of cash and evaded police dogs, ground pa-trols and a helicopter.
At about 4 p.m. Monday, 
Richard walked into the Wells Fargo in the Oaks Mall parking lot with a similar note, according to the emails.
He escaped once again with 
an undisclosed amount of cash, but Mary Vaught, a GPD crime analyst, researched everyone re-
leased from the Department of 
Corrections to Gainesville since 2013.
Out of 76 options, she found 
Richard. He was released in 2013 
after serving a sentence for six 
bank robberies in Hillsborough County, according to the emails.
“He is now in jail for these 
robberies simply because of her and her dedication to her work,” Tobias said.
Authorities found a picture 
of Richard on Facebook wearing 
the same shoes he wore during 
both robberies. Two employ-
ees of a Vet-erans Affairs housing unit 
in Gainesville also recognized photos of Rich-ard, who used 
to live there, 
according to 
the emails.
Gainesville Police and the 
sheriff of Dixie County later 
found Richard and his wife sit-
ting in lawn chairs outside their home — he was wearing the same boots.  
Authorities searched their 
home and truck and found more clothing used in the robberies, along with an imprint of the second robbery note in a receipt 
book, according to the emails.
Richard’s wife said she rec-
ognized her husband in surveil-
lance photos, and he borrowed 
her truck on both days, accord-
ing to the emails.
Authorities arrested Richard 
on two Alachua County warrants for the robberies and took him to 
the Dixie County Jail where, as 
of press time, he remains with-out bond.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF administrators and Gradu-
ate Assistants United continued to disagree about the definition of 
inequality Friday.
UF chief negotiator Bill Con-
nellan responded to GAU’s Oct. 
26 fee and salary proposals with 
a counteroffer of a 2-percent sal-
ary raise for all graduate assis-tants effective Jan. 1, 2016, and a $100 fee relief also effective Jan. 1, 2016.
Ioannis Ziogas, a political 
science graduate assistant and GAU’s bargaining chair, said the 2-percent raise doesn’t address 
GAU’s concerns about income in-
equality. A 2-percent raise in sala-ries would give the most money to top earners.
“Percentages don’t put food on 
the table,” the 35-year-old said.
Connellan said he’s willing to 
work with GAU but won’t agree to their proposal of the top earn-ers receiving smaller raises than 
those who make less.
Kevin Funk, a political sci-
ence graduate assistant and co-
president of GAU, said he thought Connellan could do better with 
his proposal.
“It’s in our interest to do some-
thing that benefits everybody, 
particularly those who are strug-
gling at the bottom,” the 33-year-
old said.
Ziogas shared a graph that 
showed the effects of Connellan’s 2-percent raise proposal. He com-
pared a graduate assistant mak-ing $40,000 a year to one making 
$10,000 a year. With time, the pay gap increases.
Connellan said he understood 
GAU’s argument, but he believes a percentage-based raise works best.
GAU will come back with a re-
sponse Nov. 9.
UF Student Body President Jo-
selin Padron-Rasines was present at the meeting. She said students should follow the negotiations be-
cause many are taught by gradu-
ate assistants.
“It’s important for undergrads 
to understand what GAU is fight-ing for,” she said.UF counters GAU salary proposal 
Richard
CRIME
Authorities arrest 
man for two bank robberies 
DEERL Y BELOVED
Quinlan Stewart, center, an 
18-year-old UF art freshman, hands out slips of paper to Art Bash attendees on Friday inside an inflatable dead deer Stewart and five other students made. They asked visitors to write shallow compliments on the pa-per and place them in the deer to keep its ego inflated.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffThere was a counteroffer  
“It’s in our interest to do 
something that benefits 
everybody, particularly those 
who are struggling at the 
bottom.”
Kevin Funk
co-president of GAUMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Unfurnished room with private bathroom in 4/4 at Gainesville Place Apartments.Close to UF with bus every 20 minutes$454 mo.Free router and modem. 727-203-1261   11-3-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Herring Realty3BR/1.5BA HOUSE on 1 ACRE. Located be-tween Trenton & Belle. Must see to appreci -
ate. $79,900. Call Lois Litchfield at 352-354-5341    11-2-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
Gainesville Modern
Seeks developer for new website.
Prefer flat fee for initial rollout. Submit pro-
posal w/ references to mike@mhastings.com.    
11-2-15-5-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
Office cleaner needed after 5p m,t,th,f and sat and sun time varies...Home/apartment cleaner needed somewhere in between 8-5 m-f and wed,sat,sun time varies ....weekly pay and paying 8.25/hour..MUST Have A CAR with valid license and be able to pass a background/drug test...if interested please call 352-214-0868    11-4-5-14
NOW HIRING!Lloyd Clarke Sports is seeking an outstand-ing person to join our staff. Must work 1 day on the weekends and maintain 25-35 hours per week. Apply in person only.1504 NW 13 St. 1 Mile N of UF    11-4-5-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14Looking for UF student experienced in video 
editing. I have athletic videos that I want 
made into 1 video for recruiting purposes. 
352-359-7788    11-2-15-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
● ● RENT A  DRAGON ● ●
on a 30ft gooseneck trailer for YOUR HOMECOMING PARADE FLOAT!
 GOOGLE 
"Monty, A Dog Gone Dragon" Call 352-284-3382        
11-2-15-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 21 Entertainment
 16 Health ServicesSavannah Jordan and Christen 
Westphal were named SEC Players of the Year, the league announced Sunday.  Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
JACKSONVILLE — Florida’s 
defense was ready for Georgia’s of-
fense on Saturday, but it wasn’t be-
cause the Gators had an extra week 
to gameplan.
In fact, it was quite the oppo-
site. 
Rather than spending the full 
two weeks meticulously studying every nuance of the UGA attack, Florida turned its focus inwards.
“We didn’t work on Georgia at 
all during the bye week,” coach Jim McElwain said. 
“We had to get better our-
selves.”
On Oct. 17, LSU ran rampant 
against UF's defenders, rushing for 221 yards and three touchdowns — one of which came on the game-
winning fake ﬁ  eld goal, granted — 
largely on the shoulders of running back Leonard Fournette.
And through the air, Tigers quar-
terback Brandon Harris exposed the Gators’ secondary, exploiting 
gaps in coverage and miscommuni-
cations between defenders for 202 yards and two more touchdowns on just 19 pass attempts.
For a defense littered with NFL 
talent and an offense that still isn’t powerful enough to win a shoot-out, the performance wasn’t good enough.
The UF defenders knew that, 
and they were determined to rec-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain watches during warm-ups prior to Florida's 27-3 win against Georgia on Saturday at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
Defense key in UF's win over UGA
INSTAGRAHAM
JACKSONVILLE
T  his summer, the alligatorSports foot-
ball reporters predicted which teams we thought would win the Southeast-ern Conference and its divisions.
I was the only one to choose Florida 
— a prediction for which I received a good amount of playful rib jabbing.
But now, I look like a genius. Undeservedly 
so, of course. 
Anyone who has had the good fortune of 
talking about sports with me knows I base my predictions off of sheer gut instinct, with a ten-dency to get a little ballsy with my selections.That’s an ego-padding way of 
saying I frequently predict the unex-pected simply because it would be crazy if said outcome actually hap-pened.
Choosing Florida to win the SEC 
East was absolutely a prediction I made because of how implausible it seemed.
The Gators had just gone 7-5, 
and there wasn’t any indication the offense would be better under coach Jim McEl-wain.
And without Dante Fowler Jr. leading the pass rush, there were legitimate concerns the defense would suffer a drop-off.
I, like so many others, was 
convinced former coach Will Mus-champ was a signiﬁ  cant factor in 
UF’s defense being elite.
As it turns out, all Muschamp 
was doing was holding UF’s offense 
back.
What was unofﬁ  cially dubbed 
by the fanbase and media alike as a season of transition must now be labeled UF’s return to national prominence.Just like Muschamp rightfully received the 
majority of the blame for UF’s struggles, McEl-wain deserves the majority of the credit for the team’s turnaround.
“Coach Mac, he’s doing a hell of a job,” 
junior running back Kelvin Taylor said. “The 
guys were tired of losing, man.”
Taylor’s right: The Gators were tired of los-
ing, and they’ve played like it.
UF has won games they weren’t expected 
to win. 
It took everything going right for the Gators 
to beat Tennessee, and then-No. 3 Ole Miss 
With nation taking notice, Gators remain unsurprised by program's revival
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15THE GATORS HAVE 
WON EIGHT STRAIGHT 
MATCHES. 
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
Becoming an elite team re-
quires the mental resolve to 
maintain intensity against every 
opponent, even when playing 
teams at the bottom of the con-ference. 
The Gators volleyball team 
did just that on Sunday as No. 12 Florida swept Georgia, 25-12, 25-12, 25-19, to give UF its fourth consecutive sweep and eighth straight win. 
Senior outside hitter Ziva 
Recek led all players with 12 kills, setter Mackenzie Dagostino had her sixth double-double of the season by compiling 25 as-sists with 10 digs and the Gators 
(17-4, 9-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) held the Bulldogs to a low-ly -.031 hitting clip in a match that only took a little more than 
an hour to complete.
Florida got off to a fast start 
and didn’t look back, never trail-
ing in the ﬁ  rst set that it won handily, 25-12.  
Georgia didn’t go down with-
out a ﬁ  ght, beginning the second set on a 4-1 run. 
However, the Gators respond-ed with a small run of their own to pull even at 5-5. 
With Florida leading 8-6, 
sophomore setter Abby Detering 
began a 14 point-serving run to 
blow the match open.
Prior to this, the team’s lon-
gest point serving run was nine by junior Alex Holston. 
The streak propelled a 17-1 
run and gave the Gators an in-surmountable 22-6 lead on their 
way to another 
25-12 set vic-
tory. 
Once again, 
the Gators got off to a fast 
start in the 
third set, build-ing a 6-1 lead 
and cruising to a 25-19 win to 
secure the sweep. 
Clearly the better team, Flor-
ida dominated both on offense 
and defense throughout the match.
The Gators put up a solid .352 
hitting clip and had more than double the amount of Georgia’s kills, 42-19. 
The team’s offensive efﬁ  cien-
cy was impressive as well. 
Sophomore middle blocker 
Rhamat Alhassan hit .667 while compiling eight kills with no er-
rors. 
Carli Snyder added six kills on Florida claims fourth 
straight shutout with victory over Georgia 
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15SEE DEFENSE,  PAGE 15Georgia held to 223 yards 
Wise
"You know when coach Mac walks in the building. If you 
can hear a pin drop you can tell he's serious. "
Marcus Maye
UF safety 
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
the program has been a storyline as 
the season has progressed.
McElwain has come in and re-
vitalized the football team with his 
own methodology, setting the stan-dard for the players to follow.  
“The guy always tells us just to do 
the little things right and everything else is going to pay off for you,” run-ning back Kelvin Taylor said. “I feel like that’s our motto, and it’s work-ing really well.”
The Gators say the atmosphere 
surrounding the program is different 
than in previous years, and it’s one 
of the main reasons this season feels different than past seasons. After running through Georgia and domi-
nating the Bulldogs defensively, the team’s confidence is high.   
“There’s a good vibe on this 
team,” cornerback Vernon Harg-
reaves III said. “We still know we have more to accomplish. But it’s 
awesome. We’re going to enjoy this 
win and see how the rest plays out.”
McElwain is already looking 
ahead to the challenges Vanderbilt presents. The Commodores posses 
a stout defense, with coach Derek 
Mason taking over the play calling duties this season. As a result, this Vanderbilt team isn’t the pushover 
the Gators have been accustomed to. 
After finishing near the bottom 
of the SEC in total defense last year 
— the Commodores allowed 402.1 yards per game — Vanderbilt is sixth 
in the conference, allowing 323.4 
yards per game.  “I just can’t help but focus on a 
really good defense that Vanderbilt has,” McElwain said. “Derek (Ma-son) is doing an outstanding job, and we can’t fall off. We’ll find out 
what our team is made of.
“Just looking at film and watch-
ing that defense of theirs, we’ve got 
a lot of work to do offensively.”
The Gators have proven pun-
dits wrong time and time again this season, and while it’s easy to look ahead to the SEC Championship, McElwain is still insisting the team 
take things one game at a time. 
“It’s not about thinking about go-
ing to the championship,” McElwain 
said. “It’s about what do we do right now to get better. Because a champi-
onship will never come if we don’t 
take care of the now.”FOOTBALL,  from pg1Florida faces Vanderbilt on Saturday
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway breaks free for a 66-yard 
touchdown during Florida’s 27-3 win over Georgia on Saturday. RIGHT:
UF defensive back Vernon Hargreaves III celebrates after an interception during Florida’s 27-3 win over Georgia on Saturday at EverBank Field in Jacksonville.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
Three UF defenders tackle UGA running back Sony Michel during Florida’s 27-3 win over Georgia on Saturday. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
a .500 hitting percentage and was 
also error-free. 
More impressive than Florida’s 
offense, however, was the stellar play of its defense.
Georgia’s -.031 hitting clip was 
the second lowest team hitting 
percentage the Gators have al-
lowed all season. 
San Diego State hit just -.040 
against the Gators on Sept. 12 in a 3-0 win. 
The Bulldogs’ 19 kills also 
marked a season-low for a Florida opponent. 
“The hitting numbers today 
will be what people may focus on," coach Mary Wise said in a release, "but we are even more pleased with the defensive effort and holding an SEC team to such 
low numbers."
The victory on Sunday was the 
Gators’ 12th sweep of the season, 
capping off a weekend in which 
Florida also beat South Carolina 
and took care of business against the cellar dwellers of the confer-ence. 
With the loss, Georgia’s record 
dropped to 5-17 overall and 0-10 in the SEC, as the Bulldogs remained in last place in the conference. 
With the win, Florida improved 
its record to 25-4 all-time against the Bulldogs in Athens. 
The Gators next return home to 
face Mississippi State this Friday at 4 p.m. on the SEC Network+. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
was predicted to expose Florida at home by more 
than a touchdown.
And then there’s the off-the-field distractions 
that could have halted the team’s progress in its tracks. 
Both quarterbacks, a starting safety and a start-
ing RUSH linebacker had been suspended, on top of former running back Adam Lane leaving the team before the season. 
Include the arrests of cornerbacks Deiondre 
Porter and J.C. Jackson and it would be under-standable if the Gators were a .500 team heading into Saturday’s battle with Vanderbilt on Home-coming.
But they’re not, and for that, the McElwain-led 
Gators deserve all the credit.
Save for a seven-point loss to a good-as-
they’ve-ever-been LSU team, Florida has handled 
every test this unpredictable season has thrown 
at it.
Barring an unforeseen collapse, the Gators 
should easily trounce Vandy, Florida Atlantic and South Carolina and head into Atlanta to face the SEC West champion. 
If Florida wins out, they have more than just a 
solid chance to make the College Football Playoff. 
Whodathunkit?
Well, here’s where I admit I wasn’t the only 
one in Gainesville who thought the team would 
prove everyone wrong: The Gators have publicly said for months they can beat any team.
“Yeah,” cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III said 
frankly when asked if he thought at the beginning of the season that the Gators would make it to Atlanta.
“But where we are now, we can only stop our-
selves.”COLUMN,  from pg 13
tify it during their time off.
“We gave up too many plays,” 
All-American defensive back Ver-
non Hargreaves III said of the LSU game. 
“We were in OK shape on 
most of the plays but didn’t make any plays. That was the big thing, and that’s what we kind of real-
ized. We kind of took it to the 
practice field.”
That’s where the Gators stud-
ied their own mistakes, all the things that weren’t right against 
the Tigers, and worked out the 
kinks.
“What you do is you self-scout 
yourself,” McElwain said. 
“That’s offense against de-
fense, 'what do we need to do?'"
So when the possibility 
emerged last week that Georgia could start junior Faton Bauta at 
quarterback, Florida didn’t need 
to scrap a full week of prepara-tion for how the offense would have worked with Greyson Lam-
bert at the helm.
And even though Bauta hadn’t 
started a game in his career, and 
there was no film to study to pre-pare for him, the Gators simply 
did what they could scouting wise 
and trusted their own ability.
“Once we got that news (that 
Bauta would start), we were like 
‘OK what are we going to do?’” safety Marcus Maye said. 
“But I think on Tuesday, you 
know, we realized it doesn’t mat-
ter what they do. We still have 
to play our ball. We still have to 
play the defense we know.”
That type of ball worked, and 
Maye and company were able to 
shut down Bauta and the Bull-
dogs, holding them to just 223 to-tal yards and taking the ball away five times.
Defenders held the edge, line-
men won the line of scrimmage 
and the secondary was seemingly 
in all the right spots at all the right times.
By going back to the basics 
and fixing the details, Florida’s defense looked like the unit it’s capable of being.
And according to Hargreaves, 
that was the only thing that was standing in the way of the team playing up to its potential.
“When we communicate, 
we’re one of the best defenses in 
the country,” Hargreaves said. 
“That’s all it is for us. We stop 
ourselves from being the best. 
When we communicate, when 
we make plays, when we’re fly-
ing around, we’re hard to beat.”DEFENSE,  from pg 13The Gators forced five 
turnovers agains UGAVOLLEY,  from pg 13Florida allowed a season-low 19 kills Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF defensive back Vernon Hargreaves III returns an intercepted pass during the first half of Florida's 27-3 win against Georgia 
on Saturday at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF outside hitter Ziva Recek swings for a kill during Florida's 3-0 win over Auburn on Oct. 11 in the O'Connell Center. 
“When we communicate, 
we’re one of the best defenses 
in the country.”
Vernon Hargreaves III
UF cornerback 16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015
