We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 7 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
UF football looking to establish identity
The Gators open their season Saturday, pg. 13
Florida senator comes to UF, discusses rising 
sea levels
Tropical storm Erika’s rain will affect sea levels, pg. 5
Emiliano’s closed for renovations
It plans to reopen Friday, pg. 8In all kinds of weather: Rainesville
Check out our rainy day photo story, pg. 9
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Dan Pollock, the head of information technology at the Anaclerio Learning and Assessment Center, gazes 
upon 18 screens streaming live footage of ﬁ  rst-year medical students interacting with volunteer patients Friday. Pollock’s voice can be heard in the halls of the center, instructing students during their lesson.
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
Smoothing out their shirts, ad-
justing their stethoscopes and stay-
ing completely silent, UF ﬁ  rst-year 
medical students wait for a sign 
from God.
“You may now start the station,” 
said God, also known as Dan Pol-lock, the head information tech-nology specialist at UF’s Anaclerio 
Learning and Assessment Center in 
the new George T. Harrell Medical Education building.
Dr. Marí a Velazquez, director of 
the Harrell Professional Develop-ment and Assessment Center, jok-ingly calls Pollock “God” because his voice emanates from the speak-
ers above, instructing students dur-
ing their assignment.
Situated on the third ﬂ  oor of the 
Harrell Medical Education build-
ing, built in July near the McKnight 
Brain Institute, the medical students completed their ﬁ  rst video-recorded examinations and interviews with standardized patients Friday. The 
volunteer patients act out symp-
toms and give feedback to the fu-ture doctors.
“I think once you’re in there 
talking with the (standardized) pa-tient, it’s more comfortable,” said Stephanie Socias, a ﬁ  rst-year medi-cal student.  “It doesn’t seem so Hunger-Game-esque out here when 
you’re waiting,”
The 25-year-old is one of 135 
ﬁ  rst-year medical students who will 
participate in the examinations and 
interviews. There are two eight-
minute long interviews that test communication skills and taking UF med students learn hands-on in new building
CAMPUS
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
In 2012, there was one artist at Gator Growl, and for the next 
two years, there were two.  
But at this year’s Gator Growl, held Nov. 6, there will be 
three artists: Echosmith, T.I. and Jana Kramer.
“We really wanted to capture the diverse interest of the stu-
dents,” said Maddie Daugherty, the event’s executive producer.
She said she’s hoping that with three-time Grammy-winning 
rapper T.I., the indie-pop band Echosmith and country-music 
singer Jana Kramer, Gator Growl will appeal to all types of stu-dents.Student Government Productions is paying for all the per-
formers, a total of $160,000, according to SGP Chairman Bobby Finigan.
Santiago Ramirez, the event’s associate producer of com-
munications, said Gator Growl organizers will not comment on how much the individual performers will be paid at this time.
Gator Growl organizers posted clues about who’s perform-
ing on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram throughout the week.
But Daniel Bowen, a UF history and political science junior, 
said the lineup announcement was a letdown.
“They hyped it all up, and they gave us Jana Kramer,” the 
20-year-old said.
He said other Gator Growl clues made him think a more well 
known country star like Carrie Underwood would perform.
Still, UF journalism sophomore Isa Perez is excited about 
Kramer, who starred as Alex Dupré on One Tree Hill. The 
19-year-old is watching the show for the third time.
“I didn’t like her for her music,” she said. “Originally I knew Gator Growl brings 3 performers, tickets selling out
THE DEGREE WILL OFFER 
SEVERAL NEW COURSES.
By T aylor Maloney
Alligator Contributing Writer
Santa Fe College will soon offer a 
new technology degree.
The Southern Association of Col-
leges and Schools recently approved a proposal that would allow Santa Fe 
to offer a new four-year bachelor’s degree in information systems tech-nology, said Jorge Ibañez, director of information technology education at Santa Fe.
“When there is determined that 
there is a speciﬁ  c need in the area, we develop a program,” he said.
According to a Florida Depart-
ment of Education application, the degree will build on the existing as-sociate degrees in networking ser-vices technology and programming and analysis.
While the application states the 
degree will be available in Spring, the proposal for the  new program still needs to be accredited by SACS, Ibañez said.
“We hope that we will hear (from 
SACS) by the end of the semester,” Ibañez said.
The program was developed after 
reaching out to the community and working with UF  to address needs within the area of information tech-nology.
 “We never compete with UF. 
We compliment each other,” Ibañez said.
The degree will offer several 
courses, including computer operat-ing systems, web design, mobile de-vices and computer networks.
For Austin Branch, 21, the new 
degree is a welcome addition.
“I was kind of disappointed be-
cause I saw they only offered an AS degree,” the Santa Fe computer sci-ence sophomore said. “I kind of wish they had more of IT or computer or 
programming classes.”
Santa Fe to oﬀ  er students new bachelor’s degree in ITSEE HARRELL,  PAGE 4
Sydney Sierota
 T.I.
 Jana Kramer
“I think once you’re in 
there talking with the 
(standardized) patient it’s 
more comfortable. It doesn’t 
seem so Hunger-Game-esque 
out here when you’re waiting.”
Stephanie Socias
medical student
SEE GATOR GROWL,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free stand up comedy tonight
Free stand-up comedy featur-
ing UF students and alumni, 
as well as Gainesville locals, is 
tonight at 9:30 p.m. at Market Street Pub and Cabaret in downtown. 
The show features profes-
sional comedians and amateur comics tearing up the stage. Feeling funny? Show up before 9 p.m. and 
sign up for the comedy open 
mic. A comedy workshop will be held at 8 p.m. hosted by lo-cal pros. Visit  facebook.com/
gainesvillecomedyshowcase.
Cinema Verde
This Wednesday, Green Drinks Meets Cinema Verde will host 
a Welcome Back networking 
and film night with a special reprisal of our Cinema Verde Audience Choice 2012 award-
winning film Confessions of an 
EcoTerrorist. Please join Cinema Verde for a fun Happy Hour with locals interested in creating a sus-
tainable future - a world that 
Cinema Verde wants to live in. It's from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Market Street Pub, 112 SW 1st 
Ave, Gainesville, FL, 32601. 
Film begins at 6:30 p.m. and tickets available online or at the door http://www.cine-maverde.org/tickets/.
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate the first home football game of the 
season with Game Day: Swamp 
Chomp, on Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a live magic show from magician 
Ran’D Shine, Stuff-A-Gator, 
a Mechanical Football and a Headphone Disco dance party. GatorNights will also be host-
ing two showings of the movie 
“Tomorrowland”  at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free 
barbecue during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Card. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.UFIC Study Abroad Fair
On Wednesday, Sept. 16, 
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the 
Plaza of the Americas, the UF International Center invites students and faculty to learn about current study-abroad 
programs. 
At the UF study abroad fair, students can learn more about the vast array of study abroad 
options available to them. 
Program directors, indepen-dent program providers and former study abroad students will be available to share their 
international experiences at 
the fair. The UFIC staff will be avail-able to explain the applica-
tion process and help students 
with the first steps to find the right program for them. Other universities and institutions that offer UF-approved study 
abroad programs and intern-
ships will also be available to help students navigate their way through the many study 
abroad opportunities. 
For additional information about the study-abroad Fair, visit ufic.ufl.edu or contact Alexis Weisman at aweis-
man@ufic.ufl.edu.
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement with CubaThe UF Center for Latin 
American Studies, Cuba Program, International Center, and the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences invite 
you to attend a workshop on 
Academic Engagement with Cuba on Tuesday, Sept. 29 from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the UF 
International Center. 
The workshop is free and open to the public, but registration is required. To reserve your seat, please visit EventBrite.
com (search: Workshop on 
Academic Engagement with Cuba).
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-
ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. Judges will award a first, sec-
ond and third place in each of 
four categories. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize winners will each receive $50 and third-prize winners will  
each receive $25. 
Total prizes to be awarded equal $525.The first category, study-abroad and service learning 
students (UF sponsored), is 
open to all current students who have taken part in a UF study-abroad program in 
2014 or 2015, as well as stu-
dents who participated in a UF-approved service learning program abroad. Photographs must have been taken during 
a trip abroad and reflect the 
competition theme of “global culture.”The second category, interna-
tional students, scholars and 
employees (F-1, J-1, H-1B, TN, E-3, O-1), is open to all cur-rent UF international students, scholars, faculty and employ-
ees on Visas listed above. 
Photographs must have been taken anywhere in the U.S. in 2014 or 2015, meeting the 
theme of “global culture.”
The final category, faculty, staff and alumni, is open to all current or retired UF faculty and staff, as well as UF alum-
ni. Photographs must have 
been taken abroad in 2014 or 2015 and reflect the theme of “global culture.”
Submission period will be 
open until Oct. 9, 2015. For more information please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html or email mcardec@ufic.
ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 7
HIGH  86° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca KravetzTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
When Nicholas Carrè took of-
fice as UF Student Body treasurer, 
he sought to make Student Govern-ment’s finances available to stu-dents.
But this goal took a detour.Carrè said he learned during his 
second week in office that students wouldn’t have access to Docutraq, the activity request system for stu-dent organizations funded by SG, because it would show students personal information.
The program, currently in its 
third version, would have shown an account holder’s UFID number and address, he said.
“Regular students can’t have ac-
cess to all that information without violating a bunch of laws,” he said.
Before Carrè learned this, he 
planned for the website to be ac-cessible with students’ GatorLink 
login.
“I really came into it thinking it 
was simple,” he said.To filter that information out 
and give every student access, he 
would have to wait until Docutraq 
was updated to its fourth version. 
That could be a year from now, Carrè said, as SG’s  IT department is stretched thin.
The three members that make 
up that department are focusing on other projects, such as creating the new SG website, he said.
To combat the software limita-
tions, SG has been releasing trans-parency reports on its homepage.
“The report filters all that stuff out,” said Stanley Beckerdite, the business manager for SG Finance.
Carrè said the report was the 
best alternative to Docutraq to keep finances visible.
Recent SG finance activity has 
been mostly blanket costs, Beck-erdite said. These costs set a cer-tain amount aside for programs such as free printing at the Reitz Union, funding for Marston Science Library, and funding for free admis-
sion to the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
and the Florida Museum of Natural History.This sets a cap on how much 
money these programs have to use throughout the year, Beckerdite 
said. 
Currently, these reports are be-
ing released once a month, but Car-
rè hopes to release them bimonthly soon. He would send reports on the 1st and 15th every month.
The last report was published 
Aug. 2 and the next one should be published in a few days, he said.
“I’d rather provide students with 
something that is similar to what I want them to have,” he said.
Access to SG finances more limited than previously thoughtnotes on a patient’s health history, 
Velazquez said.
The recent changes in the Medi-
cal College Admissions Test (MCAT) have included new sections in ver-bal communication skills, too, ac-cording to the Association of Ameri-
can Medical Colleges’ website.
“The whole thing is to make 
sure the students are going to leave 
medical school with everything that they need, not only to treat 
the patient, but also to communi-
cate so they can help their patient,” Velazquez said.
In Room 10, Samantha Smith sat 
as a standardized patient and com-
plained about her head-and-neck 
area hurting. The medical student who came in to examine her had to give a diagnosis, using what he or 
she learned the week before.
Smith, a 27-year-old UF doctoral 
nursing student, began working as 
a standardized patient in Fall 2012. She said she has continued because 
she feels the encounters help stu-
dents understand the patient’s ex-perience.
“From talking down to being re-
ally open and sincere, it’s a great activity to understand the empathy between patient and doctor,” Smith said. “You need to relate and com-
municate effectively with your pa-
tient to develop a relationship so they feel comfortable talking.”
UF’s standardized patient pro-
gram is the oldest in the state and has become the “mother” for pro-grams in other colleges of medicine, Velazquez said.
The Anaclerio Center houses 
18 exact replicas of patient exam rooms and two hospital rooms, making it the ﬁ  rst of its kind in the nation, she said.
“We are making history as we 4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Dr. Mar ía Velazquez, director of the Harrell Professional Development and Assessment Center, explains to 
a group of ﬁ  rst-year medical students how to complete their ﬁ  rst video-recorded assignment Friday.
CAMPUS
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is orange and blue and a whole lot of 
green.
In a new record, the University of Florida 
Foundation raised $315 million in private do-
nations in the past ﬁ  scal year, a $29 million 
bump from last year.
“We are humbled by the generosity of 
alumni and friends,” said Tom Mitchell, the 
vice president for development and alumni af-
fairs at the UF Foundation.
The money raised is used to provide schol-arships and research opportunities. It also 
funds capital projects, which are campus im-provements that use substantial resources, like money for buildings, plots of land and artwork, according to UF’s division of ﬁ  nance and ac-counting’s website.
Mitchell said one of the main reasons the 
UF Foundation gets funding is the Preemi-nence initiative, a program that provides funds for faculty and students interested in research on information systems, sustainability, health and education.
“I think we have extraordinary momentum 
fundraising with Preeminence, the number of new faculty joining and what our students are accomplishing across the country,” he said.
One of the professors whose programs is 
funded through Preeminence is Juan Gilbert, who leads UF’s Human-Experience Research Lab.
“This program has been great for all of us,” 
Gilbert said.  “Without sufﬁ  cient funding, we couldn’t do this innovative research or bring in graduate students that are the top in the county.”
Donated resources, such as land and mon-
ey, come from university benefactors. Two of these are Steve and Carol Shey, who donated art from their personal collection and more than 650 acres to the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for a new conference center and retreat, Mitchell said.  An anonymous donor gave $12.5 million to provide services for student-athletes, such as tutoring and academic advis-ing.
Mitchell said he is optimistic that alumni 
and other community members will continue to respond positively to the improvements made with this year’s funding.
“Gators continue to respond to the call to 
enhance (the) quality of their institution,” he said.
UF raises $315 million for scholarships, research, buildings
HARRELL,  from pg 1It helps med students with patient care THERE WILL BE CASH 
PRIZES.
By Jordanne Laurito
Alligator Contributing Writer
This semester, 14 UF organiza-
tions will be buying bubble tea in hopes of earning cash prizes.
Lollicup, a local bubble tea and 
coffee cafe, is sponsoring a compe-tition among the organizations for the duration of the Fall semester.
Students who make a purchase 
will receive a sticker to place on a poster next to the name of their favorite club. The top three clubs 
will be entered in a rafﬂ  e to re-
ceive prizes ranging from $100 to $300, and the remaining clubs will also receive smaller cash prizes.
While the cafe, located on 
Southwest 34th Street, has been sponsoring student organizations since its opening nine years ago, owner Nam Diep said this compe-tition is a new and exciting way for campus clubs to earn some support and recognition.
“We talked to the clubs and the 
students, and they seemed very in-terested,” Diep said. 
The contest will run until the 
end of the semester, and prizes will be distributed in the Spring.Andrew Nguyen, a biology se-
nior and external vice president of the Korean Undergraduate Student Association, goes to Lollicup once every two weeks.
“Ever since I came to UF, Lol-
licup has been sponsoring KUSA and many other clubs under the Asian American Student Union,” he said. “They help us out by pro-viding funds and prizes for differ-ent events.”While many clubs supported by 
Lollicup are Asian-American, Diep said he also reaches out to other organizations, such as the His-panic Student Association and the Pre-Optometry Pupils club.
“We try to reach out to as many 
organizations as possible,” Diep said. “They are a great way for students, especially freshmen, to make friends and lasting connec-tions.”
Lollicup holds contest to support campus organizations
her from acting.”
For UF psychology freshman 
Marissa Cassaway, Echosmith is the main reason she will be attend-ing the concert.
When her friends attended an 
Echosmith concert, they sent Cass-away videos. She said she’ll do the same for them.
Still, she said she’s open to 
Kramer’s performance.
“Who knows?” she said.  “After 
the concert, I might like her.”
For 1,000 fans who want to be 
closer to the stage, they can pur-chase tickets in the pit-pass area, which costs $30. Student tickets are $15 and general admission is $25, she said.
Gator Growl will be held on Fla-
vet Field for the second year in a row, Daugherty, 21, said.
While the event will feature an 
emcee like in the past, she said the details have yet to be ﬁ  nalized.
With the changes, tickets are 
expected to sell out before Gator Growl again, Ramirez said.
But for Bowen to want to attend 
this year’s pep rally, he said he’d like to see a comedian.
“I’ve actually thought about 
this a lot,” he said, citing Donald Trump as his ideal main act.
“He wouldn’t see himself as a 
comedian, but everyone else prob-ably would,” he said.GATOR GROWL,  from pg 1The total cost of the 
performers is $160,000
kd 
@kayteemillah
yo f**k uf for having echosmith and ti for gator growl like 
what is that
Camila M. Rodriguez  
@camilatweets
T.I. is coming to #GatorGrowl and my inner 8th grader is dying a little bit.
bernard yount  
@dakotajeﬀ  ﬀ  ej
@UFGrowlHC yawnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
heyits_bay
@beline00
UF bringing T.I. for gator growl, they should have money to bring someone to perform for black history month
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
TROPICAL STORM ERIKA’S RAIN 
WILL AFFECT SEA LEVELS. 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Florida Sen. Bill Nelson visited UF to dis-
cuss the threat of rising sea levels.
On Monday, Nelson met with UF assistant 
geology professor Andrea Dutton in Pugh Hall 
to discuss her research on the history of rising 
sea levels and what it can tell scientists about 
the future.
“The highest place in Florida is 350 feet 
above sea level,” said Nelson, who advocates for action against sea-level rise. “I’ve been preaching to a choir that doesn’t listen.”
About one-third of sea-level rise can be at-
tributed in part to thermal expansion, which is when water in the ocean expands as it heats 
up, Dutton said to an intimate audience of 
about seven.
Melting ice sheets are also to blame, she 
said.
“In the next century, we expect massive 
loss from polar ice sheets,” Dutton said.
Although people might be able to alleviate 
the problem temporarily, she said even if we stopped emitting carbon dioxide today, sea 
levels won’t stop rising.
“Sea level’s not going to stop in 2100,” she said. “It’s going to keep going.” 
Nelson shared this concern and said sea-
level rise would directly affect Florida. Sev-
enty-ﬁ  ve percent of Florida’s population lives along the coast, he said.“The evidence is there,” Nelson said. “We 
have sea-level rise in South Florida that is ﬁ  ve 
to eight inches.”
It will take a major catastrophe for people 
to care that rising sea levels are a threat, he said.
Although Tropical Storm Erika has weak-
ened, the rain will affect sea levels in Florida, 
Nelson said.
He said all of the rain from Erika will ﬂ  ow 
down the Kissimmee River to Lake Okeechobee in two months. This will force the water level of the lake to decrease, and all of the nutrient-laden water will cause algae blooms.
Nelson said insurance companies are rais-
ing rates for people who live in ﬂ  ood-prone 
areas around Florida. These areas comprise 40 
percent of all areas with federal ﬂ  ood insur-ance, he said.
Dutton said sea-level rise would affect the 
entire state.
“Looking at the impact on a broader per-
spective, that will have a huge effect on Gainesville,” she said.
The projections for Jacksonville and the 
west coast of Florida are also bad, Dutton said. These areas get less attention because there are fewer people living there than in South Florida.
“Not only is it going to happen, it already 
has,” she said. “It’s not a question of ‘if’ but ‘when.’”
Helen Warren, a Gainesville city commis-
sioner, said she felt it was important for her 
to come out and hear Nelson speak about sea-
level rise.
“It’s real,” Warren said. “It’s happening.”
John Hursh / Alligator
U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson speaks with UF geology researcher Andrea Dutton about rising 
ocean levels on Monday.
Florida senator comes to UF, discusses rising sea levels 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
local man early Monday morning 
after he reportedly crashed his car 
on 13th Street.
At about 1:07 a.m., Steven 
Blake Shoemaker, 25, crashed 
into a tree located next to a bus stop in the 2600 block of NW 13th St. while under the inﬂ  u-ence of alcohol, according to GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Tobias said the passenger was 
sent to UF Health Shands Hospital 
with back and neck pain.
Shoemaker had bloodshot, 
watery eyes and dilated pupils, 
along with an injury from the air-bag, according 
to the report.
“Anytime  
you’re over that 
legal limit, it’s 
trouble — as this 
one proves,” To-
bias said.
Shoemaker  
said he has cerebral palsy before 
he agreed to a ﬁ  eld sobriety test, 
according to the report.
He showed signs of nystag-mus, a response to alcohol in peo-
ple’s eyes, during several tests, 
Tobias said.
“We always say, ‘nystagmus 
does not lie,’” he said.
Tobias said only two out of al-
most 300 GPD ofﬁ  cers are trained as drug recognition experts, who can usually guess a blood alco-hol level by looking at someone’s 
eyes.  
Shoemaker registered a 0.123 
on a breath test, according to the report.
“Honestly, as bad as it is, 
that’s fairly low for Gainesville,” 
Tobias said.
Police arrested Shoemaker on 
charges of driving with a sus-pended or revoked license and DUI with property damage. 
Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where, as of 
press time, he remains in lieu of a 
$20,000 bond.Local man arrested for DUI, crashes car into tree   
Shoemaker
Passenger sent to hospitalThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
College classrooms 
are no place for 
clowning around
In K-12 education, the trope of the class clown was an 
all-too-real one. Students, whether due to crippling in-security or a genuine need to have their (misguided) 
voice heard, would interrupt the teacher and shove 
their sense of humor down the throats of the rest of the 
class. Everyone has done it at one point or another, but it was the egregious offenders who were dubbed the “class 
clown.”
By the time students arrive to a college classroom, this 
doesn’t seem to be much of a problem any more. At this 
point in the class clown’s life, they have either hung up their derby hat to indulge in more studious pursuits, or they 
have committed to their act entirely, parading their jackass-
ery for all of Facebook and their hometown to see, far from the sanctity of a college course.
There is, however, an insidious permutation of the class 
clown that pervades lecture halls all over the country. We speak, of course, of the peanut gallery.
The peanut gallery is when two or more — at the risk of 
appearing sexist, usually male — students sit next to each other in a lecture hall and mock the speaker from afar, us-
ing the distance between teacher and student as a mask 
with which to cover their impropriety. Funny accents, “witty” observations and an all-too-overwhelming sense of smugness are but a few of the regrettable traits exuded by 
the peanut gallery.
There are no laws that formally designate muted asshol-
ery in the classroom as a criminal offense. But by God, there 
ought to be.
There is a solid chance that if you’re at UF, you worked 
hard to get here. UF, at least ostensibly, is not an institu-tion for scrubs. Despite the high standards UF sets for in-trepid applicants, it isn’t as though the university can place a check box that reads, “Mark here if particularly rude or 
boisterous in the classroom,” on applications. And so, a few 
rotten apples inevitably slip through.
To address members of the peanut gallery directly: We 
respectfully ask you to cut it out. You know who you are. If you believe a particular class is so inane that your comments 
are a refreshing source of entertainment, you’re wrong. 
Boring or not, college courses are a source of knowledge and skills, all of which we’re paying an exorbitant amount for. Additionally, some of us (especially in the liberal arts, 
where grad school is all but a necessity) still care about our 
GPAs.
The only proper way to deal with a seemingly dull lec-
ture is to grin and bear it. If you want to mock your profes-sor the second class is over, by all means, do so — express-
ing your dissatisfaction in private is a healthy, reasonable 
way to process your own boredom. Surf Facebook, Twitter and other mindless pursuits on your phone if you have to! But don’t force it on the rest of us; odds are, we resent the 
class even more due to your behavior.Greek life is more than its stereotypes
With the beginning of the Fall semester 
comes a myriad of UF activities, but perhaps the most discussed is rush. 
Whether it’s news coverage, Snap-
chat stories or traffic halting hordes 
of impeccably dressed girls, you simply can’t es-cape it. Consequently, the criticisms of Greek life 
seem to reach a fever pitch this time of the year.
As someone in Greek life, I’ve heard it all: 
It’s exclusionary, elitist and superficial. There 
have been countless instances where, after off-handedly mentioning my sorority, fellow UF students have 
elaborated on these points or simply looked at me like a 
lower life form.
While all of these opinions are completely valid, it’s 
hard to stand idly by without voicing my own perspective. 
Since the only experience I have is my own, I’m not trying 
to make any broad, sweeping statements about all Greek chapters. I’m merely hoping to provide a counterbalance to the overwhelmingly negative coverage.
Why did I rush? Well, as a cripplingly awkward, school-
obsessed high school student, I didn’t have the most stellar social skills. The IB Program at my tiny school consisted of 17 wonderfully nerdy individuals, so needless to say the transition to a student body of 32,000 was…rough. I wanted 
friends, somewhere I could feel at home and a sisterhood.
I know, boring, but stay with me.
I never saw myself as a “sorority girl.” The term con-
jured up images that seemed discontinuous with how I saw myself. I knew when I heard “sorority girl” I sure as hell 
didn’t think of neurotic bookish types who went through 
vampire phases in middle school.
Yet, as time went by, I felt increasingly comfortable with 
this new title. I never felt pressured to fit a particular mold, 
and any changes I’ve gone through in the last two years 
were undeniably for the better. The problem with this is no one wants to hear about how my sorority sisters made me a better person. Let’s be honest, it’s boring and a whole lot less sexy than the hedo-
nistic image everyone loves to hold onto.
Yes, I’ve gone to parties with my sisters — 
and I’ve also gone to National Women’s Libera-
tion benefits with them. I’ve taken on Midtown 
with them and I’ve sat in the waiting room of 
doctor’s offices with them when they were too scared to go alone. They dragged me to football games and I dragged them to poetry readings.
What I’m trying to say here is any generalization about a 
particular community is guaranteed to fall short. Are there entitled, shallow, narcissistic people in Greek organiza-tions? Absolutely, but chances are they were like that long before they joined a sorority or fraternity. It’s a classic case 
of “nature versus nurture” that can never truly be settled 
but is worth consideration regardless.
Greek students make up less than 20 percent of the un-
dergraduate population at this school, so why all the de-bate? I think there’s something inherently human about fo-
cusing on surface level differences. Sometimes it’s hard to 
ignore whatever deltas or omegas are plastered all over an-other student, but in the end they don’t mean anything. For the most part, we all have the same goals: get good grades, 
make some friends, graduate on time and don’t screw it up 
too badly. The paths we take to accomplish these goals can take any form, and that doesn’t make one necessarily any 
better than another.
The UF Student Body is an amazingly diverse, intelligent 
and eccentric community. I think now, more than ever, it’s 
time to shift the focus from our differences to our similari-
ties.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 Happy Tuesday, 
gang! What a week it’s been. After last 
week’s column, 
some of 
you may have won-dered: “Why me-
diocre advice? Why 
would anybody listen to you?” Well, in a world where people still 
religiously eat Ol-
ive Garden, listen to Fall Out Boy, watch MTV and 
read Buzzfeed to find out if 
their boyfriend is cheating on them, it seems as though me-diocrity is still in.
I digress. Thank you to all 
who have inundated medio-cre.alligator.advice@gmail.com with emails; all of your inquiries are appreciated. 
Due to certain constraints, I 
will not be able to answer all questions that were asked, but I will be able to saga-ciously advise a few lucky 
individuals.
Hi Mediocre Advice,
Hope all is well. My girl-
friend of two years really wants to have a threesome….but I’m scared. How do I mentally prepare myself?
– Unnamed Urkle
I have one word for you 
Unnamed Urkle: BRUH. You’re essentially about to 
enter the Super Bowl of sexu-
al encounters: There are only going to be about five min-utes of action and the rest of the time your girlfriend is go-
ing to be bored and thinking 
of Tom Brady. So yes, you should be terrified.
Typically during sex there 
are already hundreds of things that could go wrong, but with another person in the mix, one faux pas and you’re done for. Not only are 
you going to end up disap-
pointing your girlfriend, but the third party as well. You can be guaranteed that, quite 
literally, 30 seconds after she 
leaves, every single one of her friends will receive less than generous reviews about your humble endowment and 
lackluster performance.
So here’s the plan: Go to 
a local Gainesville doctor — 
NOT the infirmary — and 
inform them of your embar-
rassing and completely fabri-cated erectile dysfunction. 
DO NOT leave until you 
receive a prescription for Vi-
agra or Cialis. Hopefully you 
trust your girlfriend, but you may not know what this oth-er girl has been up to. 
This is why you need to 
think about using protec-
tion. Helmet on, Viagra in one hand and condoms in the 
other, and you're 
ready to go to town on game day. You’re not going to be Tom Brady, 
but you just might 
score.
Hey Mediocre 
Advice,
I’m trying to improve 
my basketball skills. I shoot hoops all the time and play pickup, but I just don’t get 
better! What’s up with that? 
How can I improve?
– 6’4’’ and Jewish
6’4’’ and Jewish,Rome wasn’t built over-
night and your skills are not going to improve during that time span either. Pickup bas-
ketball is great, but I think 
you need to focus on the fundamentals of the game: selfishness and disrespect. 
You’re doing it all wrong. 
I bet you patiently wait 
your turn to play when you 
arrive at the court. You prob-ably even pass the ball to 
open teammates and shake 
hands after the game. People like you disgust me. Do you think you are going to earn 
one shred of respect from 
your peers by doing those things? No. You’re going to earn respect by focusing on your swag.
6’4’’ and Jewish, stop 
practicing your jumper. Put-ting in hard work obviously isn’t making you better, so 
instead, just buy your talent. 
My advice: Go to Footlocker and buy a $300 pair of Leb-ron shoes, $50 pair of mesh shorts and $30 pair of Nike 
socks. No, these things are 
not overpriced; they’re just the cost of success. 
While donning your new 
swag, you will find that your talents will soon resemble those of the pros. Not only will you be supporting your favorite athletes, but you will 
also be helping the American 
economy. 
In the words of Shia 
LaBeouf: “Don’t let your 
dreams be dreams. Yesterday 
you said tomorrow. SO JUST DO IT.”
Simon Moskovitz is a UF 
English senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.Mediocre Advice: Balling 
on the court and in bed Column
Simon 
Moskovitz
opinions@alligator.org
Common wisdom holds for one to 
be true to thy self. If you’re a self-described Southerner, odds are 
good you might still be licking your 
wounds from the flogging the north 
dished out 150 years ago.
If this is so, I don’t blame you, since it 
would be hypocritical for me to cast judg-ment. I, too, am visited frequently with pangs of shame over the outcome of the Ecuador-ian-Colombian War of 1863, in which my Ecuadorian 
ancestors were embarrassingly coerced into capitula-
tion, courtesy of Colombia. I haven’t found my posture 
since.
But it might be time for me to do so.
Although I have no plan or words of reassurance for 
those still vindictive about the wars their forefathers fought in, I might have a useable idea for those South-
erners who are still bitter over the outcome of the Civil 
War and remain adamant in purporting the glory of the rebellion.
Be true to thy self.
Gainesville is a strange place. A quintessential exis-
tence, in that the culture of higher education and the 
mythos of the good Old South are able to avoid clash-ing together, instead mingling agreeably. The latter is not limited to bumper stickers nor proud flags on pri-
vate property, but can also be found in class discus-
sions on our college campuses, debating whether the Civil War was fought primarily for states’ rights or for slavery. In this matter, the doctrine of “heritage, not 
hate” is favorably espoused to defend the presence of 
Confederate America.
Well, there should be no gray area, no purgatory for 
a culture of racism. To clarify, my point is not to attack those who have refused to acknowledge any wrongdo-ing on the part of slave-owning states; the cause for 
educating them in the atrocities perpetrated by our an-
cestors was lost long ago. Rather, it is those who have opted for higher education and continue to speak high-ly of blatantly offensive and patently incorrect symbol-ism that I take umbrage with.
Here’s my point: If you’re a Southerner in college, 
willfully waving the “Stars ‘n’ Bars,” be true to your-self.
Abandon the cowardliness of jingoisms like “heri-
tage, not hate.” Just be racist. Join the ranks of those big-rigged, Luke Bryan-blaring (Disclaimer: Luke Bryan is a sweet dude and although I don’t particularly like commercial country 
music, he’s alright with me… even though 
we all know a good chunk of his fan base is racist) country bumpkins.  Because that’s what you reduce yourself to when you insist 
that the war was fought to defend states’ 
rights. You’re either ignorant, or you’ve de-liberately decided to adopt a heinous culture 
of passive racism.
When I was working in Southeast Florida this past 
summer, each morning I would drive by a dishev-
eled home whose green-brown yard was bordered by 
a chain-link fence. On this property resided two to-tems to willful ignorance. The first was a lifted, Dixie-adorned Ford 350, with metal testicles dangling in the rear, all too proud to boast its prowess for dispensing 
smog. The second was the battle flag of the Army of 
Northern Virginia, which flew high and proud, albeit tucked gingerly under a larger American flag.  
Each time I passed it I would say to myself — opt-
ing not to knock on the door of our presumably affable rebels — how can you do that?
It was just two months ago that nine African-Amer-
icans were cut down by a malleable-minded white su-premacist trumpeting the doctrines of the Confederacy. How can one consider themselves a forward-thinking, decent individual, yet still fly a flag that represents op-
pression and death for a people our country has ma-
nipulated and continues to abuse to this day? How can one consider themselves a good American?
I’m more than aware that this will, more likely than 
not, fall on deaf ears. Although I sincerely doubt my words will change the tunes of those set in their ways, it must fall on the ears of college students, who are not deaf, to disavow a heritage of hate, discrimination and 
terror.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe journalism junior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.The ideals of the Confederacy remain lost causeColumn
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
“There should be no gray area, no 
purgatory for a culture of racism.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Capturing Chrysalises
Two-year-old Layla Salman tries to take pictures of butterflies and chrysalises at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History on Monday. Layla’s mother, Jean Salman, said they were first-time visitors from Atlanta.
CAMPUS
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local drag queens will strut 
through the University Audito-
rium as the Pride Student Union 
celebrates its 15th annual LG-
BTQ+ Welcome Assembly at 6 p.m. Thursday.
This is the first year Pride 
Student Union will have an of-ficial keynote speaker. Bamby Salcedo, a trans-identified Latin woman and activist from Califor-nia, is set to speak and will be 
paid $3,000. 
At the assembly, Pride Stu-
dent Union will show all stu-
dents what UF has to offer the 
LGBTQ+ community, said Car-
olyna Guillen, PSU internal vice president and UF microbiology and cell science junior.
She said she thinks the drag-
queen show will be the biggest hit of the event because it will be the most entertaining and could help students connect to the 
community.
“We want to showcase that this is our community, but this is also our community on campus,” 
the 20-year-old said.
Pride Student Union will 
point students to other clubs 
and organizations that fit what 
they’re looking for, Guillen said.  The event’s theme is Ascension, which focuses on finding your-self and reaching your potential, 
Guillen said. 
UF management master’s 
student Sebastian Wright said 
he has attended the celebration 
twice.
“I think that it’s important 
that people take part in this, no 
matter what community they are from, because it’s only for 
the bettering of each other,” the 
21-year-old said.
Wright said because gay mar-
riage was recently legalized, he 
expects more people to attend 
the event.
“They are realizing that this is 
accepted, and they are welcomed by not only UF but the nation,” 
he said. “And this event is a 
great opportunity to show that.”Pride Student Union 
to celebrate assembly with drag queensBy Krystalle Pinilla
Alligator Contributing Writer
Just in time for happy hour, Emiliano’s 
Cafe will reopen with a brand new look.
The Latin cafe closed Saturday for ren-
ovations to the kitchen area, the outdoor 
awning and the design of the indoor bar.
“We’ve been here for over 30 years, so 
these changes are necessary every so of-
ten,” said Diego Ibañez, co-owner of Emil-
iano’s. “We want our establishment to al-ways match our product.”
He said it was the first renovation for 
the cafe in eight years. The cafe will open its doors again 4 p.m. Friday for its Sund-
owner happy hour.
Although the cafe closure is brief, some 
students were disappointed they couldn’t 
get their Latin food this week.
“I drove there on Sunday because my 
friend was visiting from my hometown, Atlanta, but it was closed so we ended up going somewhere else,” says Annie Klopp, a 21-year-old UF fine arts senior.
Ibañez said the decision to renovate this 
week wasn’t an easy one, but the changes were necessary. He had hoped the renova-tions would be finished last week due to UF’s first football game this weekend.“It was a combination of scheduling,” 
he said. “It was coordinating with the peo-ple who would be doing the work, and it was because we usually get a slow-down during the first few weeks of each semes-
ter.”
Ibañez said while he’s excited to show 
off the renovations Friday, it’s hard to 
miss a week of business.
“It hurts every time the phone rings and 
we have to turn people away,” he said. “But everyone’s really excited.”
Ibañez added, “The hardest part has 
been turning away new customers who 
have come on a recommendation.”Emiliano’s closed for renovations, plans to reopen Friday
Quick facts about Bamby Salcedo
• She is a nationally and internationally recognized 
trans activist.
• She grew up with her mother in Guadalajara, Mex-ico.
• She worked at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, where she spent eight years as the health educa-
tion and HIV prevention services coordinator.
Information was found on bambysalcedo.com/#bio.
 - Ansley Pentz“It hurts every time the phone rings 
and we have to turn people away, but 
everyone’s really excited.”
Diego Ibañez
co-owner of Emiliano’sThe cafe hasn’t been renovated in eight years
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
T ai Chi by the Trees
Retired UF College of Veterinary Medicine professor Roger Reep (left), 63, practices tai chi with occupa-
tional therapist Chuck Boardman, 60. Reep said the pair like to practice regularly in the park just north of the UF Health Shands Hospital.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
LEFT:
Kailey Pak, a 19-year-old UF 
biomedical sciences freshman, walks outside the architecture building on her way to Library West on Monday. Scattered showers soaked students on campus throughout the day.
BOTTOM LEFT:
From left: Jessica Brown, an 18-year-old zoology freshman; Trevor McCabe, a 19-year-old biology and Spanish sopho-more; and Kelsey Stefan, an 18-year-old health science freshman, walk outside the Hub on Monday. Stefan said the three UF students were headed to the gym.
BOTTOM MIDDLE:
Robert Donaghy, a 21-year-old UF aerospace engineering stu-dent, unicycles with an umbrella on campus Monday.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Connor Elkin, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering sopho-more, crosses Newell Drive to head east on Inner Road. Elkin braved the waterlogged streets Monday to get to his differential equations class.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Sungwhan Cho / Alligator Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffIn all kinds of weather: Rainesville
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious atmosphere. $475/mo includes high speed internet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 325-631-0737    9-3-15-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-30-15-29-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 fem roommates wanted for 3 bedroom spacious, house. Shaded fenced backyard, wood floors, screened living porch. Washer/Dryer. 6 blocks from campus/from "Swamp/UF Plaza, NW 6th Ave. $490/m + Utl. Call/Text: 607 351 8655     9-1-15-5-4
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
BACKPACKSNorth Face, Osprey, & Jansport on Sale!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13 St /1 mile North of UF on 13th St352.372.37836    9-2-5-10
YETIRambler Cups In Stock. Keep it as cold as possible!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13th St / 1 mile North of UF352.372.7836                    9-2-5-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
For sale: HIGH VISABILITY motorcycle rid-
ing JACKET, large, greenish-yellow with high visability BACKPACK - same color. Paid $262 for both - will sell for half-price at $130 together. Don 352-328-0764    9-1-5-11
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-1398 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250
352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
A large reptile farm in Newberry is seeking enthusiastic new team members. The pri-mary hours of operation are Monday-Friday 9am to 5pm. Weekend hours may also be available. Starting salary of $9.00 per hour with a pay increase to $12.00 per hour and a benefits package after a 90 day probationary period. We welcome students and offer flex-ible scheduling!
This position involves caring for various rep-
tile species, and may include tasks such as feeding, watering, cleaning cages, breeding, and recording data. Being comfortable work-ing around insects, reptiles, and rodents is important for this position.
This is a hands on position. Candidates can-
not be afraid of handling reptiles and possi-bly being bitten. Don't worry; we do not have any venomous species at our facility!
If you are a motivated hard worker with re-
liable transportation and are interested in working with animals, please contact us!
The Gourmet Rodent
352-472-9189       9-2-15-5-14MAKE $$$ Referring College/University Students To Our Website!!!Send Inquiries To Dr. Wayne Hunter:  (386) 801-1599; khunter35@cfl.rr.com; www.drwayneeditsandresearch.com    9-1-4-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring for
recreational & team gymnastics coaches,
front desk, & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
9-3-15-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred.
Email resume to:    drpohani@gmail.com     
9-4-15-5-14
College Student needed part-time for busy 
law firm in Gainesville to answer phones. Must be familiar with Google Calendar. Send resume to touchtonassistant@gmail.com and include phone number for contact.    9-3-4-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Consign-a-Rama
Gainesville's newest college and juniors 
consignment sale! Positions available, visit 
www.consign-a-rama.com for info
9-4-15-5-14
P/T ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Holy Trinity Church. Strong oral/written commu-nications skills including editing required as well as working knowledge & experience with MS Office Suite and social media. Must have positive attitude & be a team player. Direct inquiries to rhpowell43@gmail.com.   9-4-15-5-14
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
EDITING PAPERS AND DISSERTATIONS--ADJUNCT PROFESSOR AND NATIONAL AUTHOR whyland99@yahoo.com; http://whyland99.wix.com/jefferson    9-4-15-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Revolutionary new natural coldsore treat-ment completely dries outbreaks within 1-3 days. Instant relief. Buy 1-get-1 Free: Coupon xU83F1G Expires 09/07www.herpacor.com/xu83f1g    9-4-15-4-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Attention Runners:2 New Races on Oct. 11th!Alachua Lake Half Marathon & 5K Prediction Run on the Hawthorne Trail.Sign up at www.lloydclarkesports.com    9-2-5-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorsports or online at www.alligator.org/sports for updates on UF athletics.Florida's men's and women's cross country teams are youth-laden, but competing in the SEC remains the goal. Read the story on pg. 14. 
Alhassan earns Southeastern Conference honors
Florida volleyball sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan was named 
the SEC Defensive Player of the Week on Monday. Alhassan set a single match school-record with 14 block assists in UF's season-opening win over James Madison University. UF RETURNS FOUR 
STARTERS ON OFFENSE.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
After eight long, tortuous 
months, football is back at last.
And while it’s less certain if 
the same can be said about Flori-
da football, the excitement to get 
underway and find out is palpable 
— both from the inside and out-
side of the locker room.
An offseason filled with noth-
ing more than speculation mixed 
with glimpses of one-on-one drills 
and scrimmages is mercifully over, and it’s finally time to truly begin the Jim McElwain era.
We all know the storylines, or, 
rather, the questions.
Will McElwain be able to solve 
the offensive issues that have plagued the Gators since 2010?
Who will ultimately start at 
quarterback? 
If the offensive line struggles, 
will it even matter?
Can the defense continue to 
be one of the best in the country 
without former coach Will Mus-
champ?
One game is far from a big 
enough sample size to answer 
any of these definitively, but it’s 
the first small piece to a larger puzzle.
Even McElwain, who has wit-
nessed nearly every workout, drill and practice firsthand, doesn’t 
have the answers yet. 
That’s why quarterbacks Tre-
on Harris and Will Grier will both 
play in the opener against New 
Mexico State. 
He has an idea of what both 
guys bring to the table, but he 
needs to see it take place in a game just like the rest of us. 
“I don’t think that idea is going 
to be uncovered until we get in a game situation,” McElwain said about which situations his quar-Gators look to establish identity
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
The Gators unveiled their depth chart on 
Monday for Saturday’s season opener against 
New Mexico State, and the biggest revelation came with the announcement that senior Anto-
nio Morrison is healthy and will start at middle 
linebacker.
Morrison suffered a serious left knee injury in UF’s 28-20 Birmingham Bowl victory over 
East Carolina on Jan. 3 and had two surgeries. 
His initial recovery timetable was predicted to be 10-12 months, but Morrison completed his recovery in just six months.
“It’s unbelievable what he’s done, to see 
him recover like this,” coach Jim McElwain said Monday of Morrison. ”We’ve had the doc-tor in a bunch, probably more so for me not believing him. And yet the strength levels, all 
the tests, believe it or not it’s actually tighter than the other one. That’s 
a credit to him and what 
he did in the offseason to 
prepare himself to help this football team.”
Furthermore, the depth 
chart confirmed McElwain’s plan to use both redshirt freshman Will Grier and sophomore Treon Harris at 
quarterback. Needing to see both during game 
action, the team has been preparing to let the 
quarterback battle be decided during the regu-lar season. McElwain said the coaches are still developing the gameplan for Grier and Harris, but the lack of game experience makes that 
process more difficult.
“I don’t know when we’ll determine it,” 
McElwain said. “As much as you try to simu-
late (game situations), there’s no experience for doing it. I think it’s going to tell us a lot when we get done and watch the video of this game.”
Junior Kelvin Taylor is listed as the starter 
at running back, and freshmen Jordan Scarlett 
and Jordan Cronkrite are slotted behind him at 
second-string. Florida unveils depth chart for Saturday's season openerSCOUTING THE OPPONENT
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
The Florida football team 
opens its season against New 
Mexico State Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. Here’s what you need to 
know about UF’s first opponent, the Aggies.
Offense:
On paper, the Aggies had a 
middle-of-the-road offense last season. 
They finished 52nd out of 
128 FBS teams in total offense, averaging 420.9 yards a game while converting more than 40 
percent of their third-down at-
tempts.
But while New Mexico State 
was able to move the ball, it struggled to tack points on the 
scoreboard. The Aggies aver-
aged 24.5 points per game, fin-ishing 95th in scoring offense.
While the Aggies’ offense is 
average at best, their offensive line proved to be their strong point last year. In 12 games, New Mexico State gave up just 10 sacks, the third-best mark in 
the nation.
New Mexico State returns 
six players on offense who have 
started at least six games, three 
of whom are on the offensive 
line.Defense:
While New Mexico State’s of-
fense held its own, its defense struggled.
The Aggies finished dead 
last in rushing defense (308.75 yards/game), 116th in total de-fense (483.3 yards/game) and 
121st in scoring defense (39.1 
yards/game). Their front seven also struggled to generate any sort of pass rush, ending with an FBS-worst five sacks on the 
year. And with New Mexico 
State’s four defensive line start-ers having just a combined 10 starters among them, they could 
experience some growing pains 
early in the season.
Players to watch:
Quarterback Tyler Rogers 
and running back Larry Rose III both return with a year of start-
ing experience under their belt. 
Rogers, a junior who started 11 games in 2014, passed for 2,779 yards and 19 touchdowns while 
also recording 200 yards and 
a pair of touchdowns on the ground. Rose, a sophomore, re-corded 1,102 rushing yards and averaged 5.9 yards per carry. He 
became the first New Mexico 
State running back to amass 1,000 yards since 2011.
On the defensive side of the 
ball, the Aggies return a trio of linebackers with starting experi-Previewing Florida's 
opponent: the New Mexico State Aggies
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida football players huddle at practice Monday at the Sanders Practice Field. UF coach Jim McElwain 
said he won't determine the team's starting quarterback until after he sees them play Saturday. 
Injured linebacker will start
SEE ROSTER,  PAGE 15Morrison
SEE SCOUTING,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015CROSS COUNTRY
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer 
@ebaueri
Underclassmen runners played 
a big part in Florida’s women’s 
cross country team last season, 
and it appears this year that very 
well may be the case again. 
“We’ve added, I feel like, a 
very talented recruiting class,” 
coach Paul Spangler said. 
“I’m excited to see the athletes 
(and to) see the team progress 
this year.”
With last years top three run-
ners in Becky Greene, Taylor Tubbs and Lauren Brasure all re-turning, the team will be able to rely on experience at the top. 
However, for the rest of the 
starting seven, things are fairly unclear.
Perhaps the most likely fresh-
men to crack the Gators’ starting 
rotation are a trio of internation-
al students, starting with Maria Larsen of Denmark.
Larsen comes to UF as the 
Danish national record holder in the indoor 3000 meters with a time of 9:19.56 and she finished in 30th place at the junior World Cross Country Championship in 
March. 
“She comes in with a very good 
resume and with some very good international experience,” Span-
gler said, “and certainly she’s 
gonna come in and contribute.”
In addition to Larsen, Florida 
also stands to benefit from the 
abilities of fellow freshmen Cait-
lin McQuilkin-Bell and Elisabeth 
Bergh. 
McQuilkin-Bell hails from 
Tamborine, Australia, and was the runner-up in both the 1500 
meters and the 3000 meter stee-
plechase at the 2015 Australian junior championships. 
Bergh, a native of Haugesund, 
Norway, qualified for the junior track and field world champion-ships.
“We expect her to come in and 
make a contribution,” Spangler 
said of Bergh.
Add Greene, who is from New 
Zealand, to the mix and the team 
has an international flair heading 
into the season. 
On the men’s side, the team 
will benefit from faces both new 
and old — and in two cases, both old and new at the same time.
After taking a redshirt year 
in 2014, redshirt seniors Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia rejoin the team after earning USTFCCCA 
All-South Region accolades in 
2013. 
As far as the duo being where 
they need to be to contribute this season, Spangler thinks that they’re right on track. 
“They’ve looked good in prac-
tice, they’re extremely hard work-ers, (and) they’re very, very fo-cused,” he said. 
“They’re about where they 
should be right now.”
As for the new crop of fresh-
men, it starts with Nick Diaz. 
The Miami native was a two-
time class 4A state champion while competing for Miami Sun-set high school and was named the 2013-14 Gatorade Florida 
Boys Cross Country Runner of the 
Year.
In addition to Diaz, Connor 
Vaughan, Jack Guyton and Sea-mus Love are some names to keep 
an eye on as far as freshmen go.
Last year was a down year 
for both teams, but the influx of 
young talent along with the vet-
erans at the top has this year’s 
squads feeling optimistic about competing in the Southeastern Conference. 
Spangler said competing in the 
SEC is an expectation every year.
“Year in and year out, our goal 
is to contend for an SEC title,” Spangler said. 
“I expect both teams to go in 
with that goal and work during the season towards that accom-plishment.”Gators prepared to lead with youth
FLORIDA SNAPPED FSU’S 24-
GAME UNBEATEN STREAK.
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Coach Becky Burleigh and the Florida 
soccer team are focused on the conditional 
relationships following a victory over the No. 1 team in the nation.
The Gators (3-1-0) handed defending 
national champion Florida State (3-1-0) its first loss of the season in UF’s home opener on Sunday.
Last week, Florida scored seven goals, 
took down two in-state rivals and brought in the accolades. Junior forward Savan-nah Jordan and freshman midfielder Sarah Troccoli were named Southeastern Confer-ence Offensive Player of the Week and SEC 
Freshman of the Week, respectively.  
Making its first appearance on the side-
line for the Gators was an orange oar, a 
symbol Burleigh hopes will keep the team going in the right direction.
The oar idea came from a meeting Bur-
leigh had over the summer with Western Michigan football coach P.J. Fleck, who told her about his team mantra of ‘Row the 
boat’. 
“When you’re rowing a boat that every-
body has to be rowing in the same direc-
tion with the same intensity and the same speed together,” Burleigh said. 
She said a team can reach its destina-
tion even if the team stops “rowing”, but 
the journey becomes much more difficult.
“We introduced that idea to our team on Thursday when we played Miami,” Bur-
leigh said, “and they kind of got into it a little bit.” 
Burleigh said how important it was to 
work for each other, play as a unit, stop worrying about playing perfectly and just play their game — continuing to row the boat.
UF is spending the week focusing on cutting out the conditional relationships and not getting complacent after defeating the nation’s top squad.
Burleigh said conditional relationships, 
such as the amount of congratulatory text messages she received after the Florida State match, are examples of things that the athletes can’t let affect them head-ing into Friday’s match against Oklahoma State (2-1-0).
“Now looking forward to (Friday)’s 
game, we have a whole different set of is-
sues to deal with,” Burleigh said. “Some-
times I think we get conditioned to that the way we provide value is through our performance and we don’t believe in that on our team. We really believe in the idea that the character of our team will drive everything.”
Burleigh doesn’t want the team to get 
away from the ‘CPR model’ — the char-
acter drives the process drives the result 
— the team is going to focus back on the character to get away from any pressure that can come from focusing on results or rankings. 
Senior center back defenders Claire 
Falknor and Christen Westphal gave an impassioned speech during halftime of the team’s 4-2 win over Miami on Thurs-
day night that Burleigh thinks really has 
brought the team together and provided a valuable lesson early this season. 
“I think that Claire and Christen just in 
their willingness to step up in front of our team and sort of be vulnerable. ...if you look at it objectively in that game they made mistakes too,” Burleigh said. 
“But they were just very resilient in 
their recovery from those mistakes and they showed just a perfect example of what it looks like to play through mistakes.”
With the leadership of the veterans and 
the mentality of the team to work together to improve rather than focus on mistakes is what Burleigh thinks will help this team the most moving forward.
“We have a lot of work to do still,” Bur-
leigh said. “We have to keep rowing.”UF soccer encouraging strong character, team mentalityJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jimmy Clark races during the 2013 Southeastern Conference Cross 
Country Championships at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh puts her arm around defender Rachelle Smith (81) following Florida’s 3-2 win against Florida State on Sunday at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
terbacks thrive in. “As much as 
you try to simulate it, there’s no experience for doing it.”
The same can be said for the 
rest of the team, too, and that’s what excites the first-year UF coach the most about finally kick-ing off the season.
“(I’m) more so kind of look-
ing forward to seeing what our identity is going to be,” McElwain 
said. “This will be the first chance 
to give us a chance out there and see what we are, what we’re all about.”
For an upperclassman like of-
fensive lineman Trip Thurman, helping the team create a new identity is a welcoming challenge. 
Being part of some of the worst 
seasons Florida football has had in over a quarter of a century isn’t the type of legacy a redshirt se-nior wants to leave behind. So to say Thurman is ready to turn over 
a new leaf — for both himself and 
the program — might be an un-derstatement.
“Absolutely,” Thurman said 
about whether he feels this year is a new beginning for Florida. “I think the whole team does. Obvi-
ously with the new coach and just 
the way he’s implemented things all through the offseason and spring ball. 
“We definitely have a new era 
and we’re ready to go.”
There is certainly pressure 
that comes along with the excite-ment, too, and McElwain admits 
that even with all his coaching 
experience — including national championship games — there are always nerves about all the un-knowns when the season begins. 
But, he insists, that just comes 
with the territory.
“Well, shoot — I mean, I get 
nervous going to practice,” McEl-
wain said. 
“The day you don’t get butter-
flies is probably the day to get out 
of this. It’s fun, and I don’t look at it as nervous as much as the 
thrill of another year.”FOOTBALL,  from pg 13McElwain still firm about not naming starting quarterback 
ence in junior Rodney Butler and sophomores 
Derek Ibekwe and Dalton Herrington. The trio tallied 305 tackles, 14.5 tackles for loss and two 
interceptions.
Last Meeting: Sept. 3, 1994
Florida quarterback Terry Dean threw seven 
touchdown passes in the first half — a feat that 
is still tied for the national record — and the 
Gators packed on 618 yards of total offense in a 
70-21 rout. Receiver Jack Jackson caught four of Dean’s touchdown passes.
Key Stat: 0
New Mexico State has yet to pull out a win 
against a Southeastern Conference team in 13 tries. 
In those games, the SEC team came out victo-
rious by an average of 35.2 points. 
Here’s the full breakdown:
Sept. 27, 2014: LSU 63-7Nov. 3, 2012: Auburn 42-7Nov. 5, 2011: Georgia 63-16Sept. 4, 2004: Arkansas 63-13Nov. 15, 2003: Arkansas 48-20Sept. 28, 2002: Georgia 41-10Aug. 31, 2002: South Carolina 34-24Sept. 23, 2000: Georgia 37-0Sept. 2, 2000: South Carolina 31-0Sept. 28, 1996: LSU 63-7Sept. 16, 1995: Georgia 40-13Sept. 3, 1994: Florida 70-21Nov. 6, 1993: Auburn 55-14SCOUTING,  from pg 13The Aggies gave 
up only 10 sacks 
last seasonFreshman Martez Ivey, who reportedly 
suffered a slight meniscus tear on Friday, is 
listed as the No. 2 left offensive tackle be-hind redshirt senior transfer Mason Halter.
Despite the injury typically requiring two to four weeks of recovery, McElwain refused to rule Ivey, and injured junior start-ing safety Keanu Neal, out for Saturday.
“I wouldn’t put it out of the question, 
believe it or not,” McElwain said about Ivey and Neal playing, “but we’ll hit that on Wednesday when we talk about the injury report.”Bryan Cox, Jr. will start along the defen-
sive line with redshirt junior Alex McCali-ster suspended for the opener.
"This is the first game, we’re going to 
play a lot of guys,” McElwain said. “You’ve got to put names in there, right? You’ve got to give them as game notes to the opponent. But I wouldn’t read too much into it.”
ROSTER,  from pg 13Injured players aren't ruled out for opener
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF defensive back Keanu Neal leaps to make a one-handed interception during practice on Aug. 8 at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Will Grier throws a pass during Monday's practice at Sanders Practice Field. Grier and quarterback Treon Harris will split reps during the season-opener. 16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
