We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 35 MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
UF players progress in ﬁ  rst week of 
men’s basketball practice
First-year UF coach Mike White said redshirt fresh-
man Brandone Francis-Ramirez stood out, pg. 15
Weekend Crime Roundup
It includes robbery and damages to a police car, pg. 3
Lauren Poe holds fundraiser for 2016 
mayoral race
He is one of two candidates running, pg. 9UF SG holds vigil for Umpqua shooting victims
Nine students at the community college in 
Oregon were killed Oct. 1, pg. 5
MISSOURI 3 FLORIDA 21
‘NEVER SATISFIED’
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
COLUMBIA, Mo. — Few thought the Gators 
would be undefeated heading into Saturday’s 
road matchup against Missouri.
Even fewer thought Florida would come 
out of the contest a top-10 ranked team, bowl-
eligible and on top of the Southeastern Confer-ence Eastern division.
While UF completed that trifecta with a 21-3 
victory, the Gators aren’t content with proving 
the doubters wrong — far from it, actually.
“We’re never satisﬁ  ed,” junior running 
back Kelvin Taylor said, coming off a pair of ﬁ  rst-quarter touchdowns that highlighted Flor-ida’s offensive performance. “At the end of the day, our team is what it’s all about.
“Every week we gotta get better and bet-ter and we can never be satisﬁ  ed. That’s what we’re aiming for.”
Admittedly, Florida (6-0, 4-0 SEC) didn’t get 
better on offense, but it didn’t matter.
Despite an efﬁ  cient yet rattled performance 
from redshirt freshman quarterback Will Grier, the Gators offense moved down the ﬁ  eld like a well-oiled machine on the ﬁ  rst drive — a 12-play, 75-yard march capped by Taylor’s ﬁ  rst touchdown of the game from a yard out.
The ability to move the ball from the open-
ing series had been sorely missed over the past month as Florida opened each of its last four games with a three-and-out offensive posses-sion.
“Our play action, motions, shifts I think got 
them off balance and that’s how we have to play,” UF coach Jim McElwain said. “We have to play to keep them off balance.”
The Gators have been embarrassed by 
Missouri (4-2, 1-2 SEC) the last two seasons — a 36-17 beatdown in Columbia in 2013 that knocked the Gators out of the rankings for al-most two years and a 42-13 homecoming shel-lacking last season.
On Saturday — Missouri’s homecoming 
night — the Gators got their revenge.
UF wants more than 6-0 start
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
LOCAL
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer     
Mika Vuto’s daughter, Mia, was born with 
Down syndrome.
It was a complete shock.  “It went from total excitement to tears,” 
Vuto said.
With very little information from the hospi-
tal, Vuto went to the Internet, a research pro-cess she said was scary and overwhelming.
“Looking back, nobody should have to go 
through that alone,” Vuto said.
Eighteen months ago, Vuto and other par-
ents of children with Down syndrome got together in a living room in Williston to start working on a project to help raise awareness for individuals with the genetic disorder.
Vuto watched Sunday afternoon as the rib-
bon was cut in front of that project, now ﬁ  n-ished — the ﬁ  rst chapter of GiGi’s Playhouse in Florida. The nonproﬁ  t organization, which serves as a support center for individuals with Down syndrome and their families to meet and help each other, is now open next to Midnight Cookies on 34th Street.
Although there are about 25 GiGi’s Play-
house centers across the nation, this center is the ﬁ  rst to open in Florida.
“We are making history,” Vuto, who now 
serves as president, said as she held back what she called happy tears.
She said the center will help families with a First GiGi’s Playhouse in Florida opens in Gainesville Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
TRASH FESTIVAL
Student cartoonist at the Sequential Artist Workshop Javed Imthiaz (left) and co-founder of The 
Gainesville Iguana and Civic Media Center Joe Courter enjoy live music during the Fall Trash Festival on Saturday. “I’m a person that lives by repurposing things, ” said Courter. “The Repurpose Project is a celebration of creative reuse. ” See more photos and read the story on page 8. 
SEE GIGI’S,  PAGE 4IT WAS FOR THE THIRD 
ANNUAL MINI MEDICAL 
SCHOOL.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Harvey’s heartbeat thumped 
through a speaker as a stethoscope 
lay on his bare chest. The patient simulator’s blue eyes stared up at the ceiling above his head.
Behind him, a small, silver key 
turned in an ignition slot, giving Harvey life.
“Everything in Harvey, by the 
way, is digital,” Dr. Ira Gessner told a group of 15 undergraduates.
They were part of about 120 
undergraduate students to meet inside the new, $46-million George 
T. Harrell, M.D., Medical Educa-
tion Building, located on Newell Drive. Sunday morning was the third annual Mini Medical School, said Sean Taasan, one of the event organizers and a ﬁ  rst-year UF med-
ical student.  
The event, 
hosted by UF’s Equal Access Clinic Network, 
was designed to give students hands-on ex-perience with UF’s medical 
program, Taasan said. For the ﬁ  rst time, all 120 registration spots for Sunday ﬁ  lled up. Participants paid $28 for access. More than $2,300 
was raised, all of which is going 
toward the network’s free clinics in Gainesville.
The 21-year-old said it’s impor-Undergrads receive 
hands-on med practice   
SEE MEDICAL,  PAGE 4Gessner
“Looking back, nobody should have to go 
through that alone.”
Mika Vuto
MotherSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pride applications are open
Pride Awareness Month at UF 
is the largest student-led cel-ebration for the LGBTQ+ com-munity. This year, our theme is 
DEFIANCE. Join us as we defy 
the norm and make our stories count. Visit facebook.com/prideawarenessmonth and ap-ply today. But hurry, staff ap-plications close tonight at 11:59 p.m.
UF School of Theatre + Dance 
Presents ‘The Drowsy Chaperone’Directed by Tony Mata with musical direction by Tony Offerle, this Tony Award-winning musical pays hom-age to musical comedies of America’s Jazz Age. Music, laughs and surprises abound 
when a musical theatre addict 
puts the needle down on his favorite vinyl cast recording of the fictitious 1928 musical, “The Drowsy Chaperone.” “The Drowsy Chaperone,” on stage in UF’s Constans Theatre from Friday until Oct. 25, will make you fall in love with the theatre 
all over again. Performance 
times are 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and Oct. 20 and 24, and at 2 p.m. Sunday  and Oct. 25. Tickets are $13 for UF stu-dents, $15 for UF faculty/staff and senior citizens and $18 for the general public. More infor-mation is available at arts.ufl.
edu/calendar. Tickets are avail-
able through the University Box Office, by calling 352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation online using #DrowsyChaperoneUF.
Funding opportunity for of-in-
terest graduate studentsThe International Center, in conjunction with UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, 
Graduate School and Office of 
the Provost, is pleased to an-nounce the 2015-2016 Research Abroad for Graduate Students funding opportunity. This op-portunity is open to advanced doctoral students in the sci-ence, technology, engineering or mathematics disciplines to 
conduct an extended period of 
research at a foreign labora-tory or field-site during Spring or Summer 2016. Selected stu-dents will receive funding up to $10,000 toward the costs of the international research trip. Applicants should submit all materials electronically to 
the Office for Global Research 
Engagement at OGRE@ufic.ufl.edu, with subject line “Research Abroad for Graduate Students Application,” no later than Oct. 23 at 3 p.m. For complete de-tails and an application form, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/OGRE/FundingOpp. Please direct any 
questions to Nikki Kernaghan 
at nikkik@ufic.ufl.edu.
UFIC and the Fulbright Lecture 
Committee hosts “What I Need to Prepare If I Receive a Fulbright Award and Go Abroad”This workshop, held Oct. 24 
from 9 a.m. to noon, will be 
presented by Karen Reed, a clinical assistant and profes-sor of nursing. Dr. Reed was a Fulbright Scholar in Cambodia for the 2013-14 academic year. There she taught as a visit-ing professor at the Kampot Regional Training Center in 
Kampot, Cambodia, as well 
as conducting professional development programs for Cambodian nursing faculty, nurses and nursing administra-tors. Dr. Reed holds profession-al memberships in Sigma Theta Tau, the North Florida Chapter 
of the Fulbright Association, 
the Transcultural Nursing Society and the Association for Rehabilitation Nurses. She has been an active volunteer for the American Heart Association as a CPR instructor since 1982. Internationally, she serves as a volunteer mentor to nursing 
students in Cambodia and vol-
unteers her time and resources to teach in their undergradu-ate nursing programs as well as provide professional devel-opment programming for staff nurses in both public and pri-vate Cambodian hospitals.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In the article titled “UF students 
walk to be healthy" in Friday's paper, the walk for health was held outside the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. The Alligator reported otherwise.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 35
HIGH  82° LOW  59°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Kristine  
  Janata, Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, Michael  
  Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
Police arrest three men for armed 
robbery, still seek another
Gainesville Police arrested three Bradford men early 
Friday morning after they reportedly robbed four people at gunpoint.At about 11:15 p.m. Thursday an unknown driver, whom police are still searching for, stopped in the 100 block 
of Southeast Fourth Street, GPD spokesman Officer Ben 
Tobias wrote in an email.
The location is one block from the 
Hippodrome State Theatre and about one mile from the GPD building.The front passenger, 21-year-old Eugene Jackson, asked two people on the sidewalk for directions to Gator City 
Sports Grill, according to the email.
Taiviyon Johnson, 19, who was sitting 
behind Jackson, then pointed a hand-
gun at the people, according to police reports.  Jackson demanded whatever they had, and one of the people gave him an iPhone, which Jackson made him un-lock, according to the reports.   About 15 minutes later, the men trav-
eled to the 400 block of Northwest Third Street, where they robbed two more people using similar tactics, ac-cording to the reports.
Freddie McCrary, 22, who was sitting next to Johnson, stepped out of the car to pick up bags dropped by the two people, according to a police report.An officer saw the suspects turn onto 
Northwest 19th Street where they ran 
from the car. Another officer, assisted 
by a police dog, Argos, found Jackson and Johnson hiding in a home’s bushes about four blocks behind Midtown.
Police then found McCrary nearby and found all the stolen items. The gun was never found, according to the email.Police arrested each man on four charges of robbery with a firearm and took them to the Alachua County Jail where, 
as of press time, they each remained in lieu of $2 million 
bonds. Police arrest local man after fight causes $400 in damage
Gainesville Police arrested a local man early Friday 
morning after he reportedly slammed an officer into his own car and caused $400 in damages. 
At about 5 a.m. Tobreis Fields, 27, told a woman he 
“does not mess with her” from the back seat of a car, according to a police report.
Standing outside the car, she returned 
the insult, saying she “sure does not 
mess with him.” Fields stepped out of the car and pushed her face with his hand, according to the report.After she tried to use a Taser on 
Fields, he reportedly hit her with a lawn chair several times.Fields was back in the car when po-
lice responded, and they told him to raise his hands. 
Fields tried to leave the car after he dropped something 
that rattled on the floorboard — later identified as a pill bottle with .4 grams of cocaine, according to the report.An officer started to handcuff Fields, who then tried to pull the officer into the car. 
Police pulled Fields out of the car before he grabbed an 
officer by the waist and lifted him off the ground, ac-cording to the report. He then slammed him on the hood of a patrol car, caus-
ing $400 in damage, GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias 
wrote in an email.Fields then stood on the patrol car and punched toward the officers before everyone fell during the struggle, ac-cording to the report.
The fight ended when an officer used a Taser on Fields’ 
back and buttocks before handcuffing him. Police arrested Fields for charges of criminal mischief, possession of paraphernalia, possession of cocaine, ag-
gravated battery and aggravated assault, along with two 
charges for battery and three charges for resisting an officer.Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remained in lieu of a $258,500 bond. MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Police arrest local man after he flaunts 
stolen goods on Facebook
Gainesville Police arrested a local man Friday after-
noon after he reportedly robbed three people at gun-point and posted about the stolen items on Facebook.
At about 7:30 p.m. Thursday Kevin D. Waters, 20, 
pointed a gun at three people walking down the street and told them to stay there or be shot, accord-
ing to a police report.
A man reportedly handed over his 
chain necklace and $10 in cash but asked to keep his phone, which 
Waters allowed.An officer recognized the descrip-
tion of Waters, including a star 
tattoo associated with Bloods gang members under his right eye, ac-
cording to the report.
Police searched Facebook and reportedly found him 
wearing the same clothes from the robbery and the stolen chain described after the robbery in his profile picture.After saying he never saw the people or the chain, 
Waters eventually told police he robbed them with 
a stick, which he later said was actually a fake gun, according to the report.Waters has an open charge for aggravated battery 
in a separate incident, according to Alachua County 
court records.Police arrested Waters on charges of robbery with a firearm, carrying a concealed weapon and posses-sion of a weapon by a convicted felon, along with 
two charges of aggravated assault.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a bond of more than $1.6 million.Fields
Weekend Crime Roundup
McCrary
Jackson
Johnson
Waters
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
LOCAL
By Jennifer Louissant
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s oldest Irish pub has decided to 
become smoke-free.
Durty Nelly’s, located at 208 W. University 
Ave., has recently started to forbid customers 
and patrons from smoking cigarettes inside. 
The local bar, which has allowed smoking in-
side since its opening in September 1994, de-cided to make the change to bring in more cus-tomers and stay relevant to Gainesville where smoking is seen as a dying trend.
“Basically we felt it was the time now,” said 
Gosia Jagusiak, a bartender at Durty Nelly’s. “It’s a dying habit. There’s less smokers now.”
Jagusiak said allowing customers to smoke 
inside proved to be a limitation on customers — even her friends wouldn’t come visit her at the bar because of the former smoking policy.
Krista Farmer is one of the Gainesville lo-
cals who refused to visit the bar due to the smoking inside. The UF graduate architecture student said she is allergic to tobacco smoke and used to find it difficult to even enter the 
establishment.
“I remember just walking in and the place 
being filled with smoke,” the 27-year-old said.
But now, she said she’s happy to go to the 
bar with her friends to drink and watch the UF 
football games.
Patrons used to leave the bar because of the 
smoking allowed indoors, Jagusiak said, but now there is a space outside specifically made for smokers who visit Nelly’s.
However, despite the outdoor area, Shauna 
Dixon, the manager and co-owner of the bar, said a few of Nelly’s regular patrons have tem-porarily stopped visiting since the bar changed to being smoke-free. But the change wasn’t personal, Dixon said, despite the unhappiness of the smoking bar patrons — only business.
“I hope they come back,” Dixon said. 
“We’ll keep their stools warm for them.” Durty Nelly’s bans smoking indoors to bring in customers
tant for pre-medical students to learn about how the medical field works, and they don’t get that experience in their general undergraduate science classes.
“We have lecturers who are (UF 
College of Medicine) faculty, and they’re talking about things that are 
directly related to medicine,” he said.
UF biology freshman Brittany 
Fischer attended the event. She said 
after a family medical emergency, she considered a career in health care.
“My mother suffered from a stroke two years ago, so I’ve really been immersed in the field,” the 
18-year-old said. “I see the potential 
to make a difference in people’s lives through it.”
The almost eight-hour program 
included a tour of the Harrell build-ing and seminars taught by UF Col-lege of Medicine professors, like Dr. Gessner. The seminars held discus-sions on sports medicine, cardiol-
ogy, pediatrics, women’s health and 
childbirth.
Dr. Robert Hatch, a community 
health and family medicine doctor, talked to the students about diagnos-ing injuries.
“Inspection is a really big part of 
medicine,” he said.Others showed students how to 
properly interact with patients and 
how to apply to medical schools.
During lunch, Taasan and other 
UF medical students sat at the front 
of Harrell’s lecture hall, answering questions from participants.
They spoke about balancing 
work, taking out loans for medical school and absorbing loads of infor-mation at once, likening it to drink-
ing from a firehose. Taasan advised 
students to get enough sleep, even if it means taking naps.
“You do have to find ways to 
balance everything,” Taasan said. “Sometimes you might fall asleep in class and your friend might take pic-tures of you.”
MEDICAL,  from pg 1The program lasted almost eight hours
child with Down syndrome gain confidence as they raise their children.
“You have to let go of the dreams you had 
of your child, and create and embrace a new journey,” Vuto said.
As the ribbon fell down on a stage inside 
the building, people cheered with tears in their eyes.
Chris Waite said he planned to visit the cen-
ter with his daughter, 8-month-old Erin Marie.
“I just think it’s nice to have a place with a 
supportive atmosphere,” he said.
While Vuto and the other staff at GiGi’s 
Playhouse are still trying to raise the $100,000 
needed to fully run the organization, the build-
ing will still host free programs for all individu-als with Down syndrome and their families.
“We don’t want cost to be a barrier,” Vuto 
said.As of now, programs will focus on getting 
to know the individuals and their needs. But Vuto said programs will eventually include research-based tutoring in math and reading.
Most of the staff will be volunteers, includ-
ing members of a UF service sorority, Delta Nu Zeta.
“I couldn’t have done this alone,” Vuto 
said. “It takes a community for GiGi’s Play-
house to be successful.”
Paul Hintze, the treasurer at GiGi’s Play-
house, said he hopes he will be able to raise 
awareness while working there.
“We are all more alike than different,” Hin-
tze said.
Donations are accepted through the GiGi’s 
Playhouse website at gigisplayhouse.org/gainesville under “Donate.” The organization 
is also hosting their second annual golf benefit 
Saturday on UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course. Registration for the event is also available on the GiGi’s website.It helps people with Down syndrome
Daniela Bulla / Alligator
Addie Dalton, a board member for GiGi’s Playhouse, a nonprofit organization for chil-
dren with Down syndrome, snips a ribbon at the center’s grand opening on Sunday. 
ABOUT 20 PLA YED A TRADITIONAL 
FILIPINO GAME CALLED AGAWAN BASE 
ON TURLINGTON PLAZA.
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students relived two childhood games — capture 
the flag and hide-and-seek — Sunday night.
About 20 students ran around campus, laughing as 
they chased each other on Turlington Plaza. For the first 
time at UF, Pi Delta Psi invited students to play agawan 
base, a traditional Filipino street game that mirrors tag-
based American games.
Keith Macalino, who organized the event and is a 
member of Pi Delta Psi, said he wanted to organize a fun event for students to interact with Asian culture.  
Agawan base translates to “stealing bases.” Macalino 
said he created a version of the game that would allow more people to play and be easier to understand.
Players were split into two even teams, and the seek-
ing team had a base the hiding team tried to get to. Each round ended when a majority of the hiding team touched the base or a majority of the hiding team was sent to “prison.”
UF applied physiology and kinesiology sophomore 
Mark Pangilinan had never played the traditional game but had played manhunt, which he said is similar.
“The rules of agawan base were bent and blended,” 
the 19-year-old said. “A lot of us, as part of the Asian American Student Union, want to take our traditional customs and incorporate them with the American and university culture.”UF students celebrate Asian culture
By Martin Vassolo 
Alligator Staff Writer
Dressed in blue, red, yellow 
and pink — they came to dance, leaving their shoes at the door. About 200 UF students twirled in wavering circles Sunday night.
In UF’s Florida Gym, the Indi-
an Students Association celebrat-ed Navratri, an annual, nine-day Hindu celebration of goodness in India. While the club danced off campus last year, this term ISA brought the event to campus to accommodate more students, said Neal Trivedi, the event’s director.
Women in long, colorful out-
fits topped with sashes and jew-elry complimented one another. Men in long shirts were quiet on the sidelines until they began dancing. 
“It’s a really joyous time,” said 
Radhika Gopalan, the president of ISA. 
“I just like staying in tune with 
my roots,” the 21-year old psy-chology and sociology senior said.
A live band, Sur Bahaar of Mel-
bourne, performed traditional In-dian music as the crowd rejoiced, dancing around the gym’s wood-en floor in unison. 
The crowd danced garba, 
an Indian dance typical of the Navratri celebration. 
But everyone had their own 
adaptations to the choreography, 
Gopalan said, who had henna 
designs covering her wrists and hands. 
Ujjval Vyas, one of the singers 
for the night, said the atmosphere was electric. As the band’s drum-mer sped up his stick work, the dancers responded with faster, more emphasized movements. 
“It’s a lot of fun to sing when 
you have a crowd like this,” Vyas said during an intermission.  
In India, Navratri draws thou-
sands of people, Vyas said. When he was 16, he attended his first festival there. Now, he’s in his 40s, and he said he travels the country performing for revelers.
While the majority of partici-
pants claimed Indian heritage, all ethnicities were represented. 
Andrew Klein, a UF physics 
freshman, stood barefoot on the sidelines after dancing in the ro-tation.
“It’s impressive,” the 18-year-
old said. “And they’re all very 
well dressed.” 
Gopalan said seeing people of 
other backgrounds embrace the 
Indian culture makes her happy.
“I really like sharing our cul-
ture with them,” she said. UF students participate 
in Indian danceCAMPUS
GIGI’S,  from pg 1MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF students and faculty lit candles Fri-
day morning with solemn faces as nine 
names were read.
Lucero Alcaraz. Quinn Cooper. Kim Di-
etz. Lucas Eibel. Jason Johnson. Lawrence 
Levine. Sarena Moore. Treven Anspach. 
Rebecka Carnes.
UF Student Government held a vigil 
for the victims of the Oct. 1 shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. Umpqua student Christopher Harper-Mercer, 26, killed the nine students and injured nine others.
“No matter how near or far this incident 
happened, it could’ve been us,” said Court-nie Moodie, the SG community involve-ment and service cabinet director.
The vigil, held on Turlington Plaza, also 
honored the victim of another shooting at Northern Arizona University that occurred Friday morning, hours before the vigil.
A moment of silence was held for fami-
lies of the victims and the communities af-
fected by the shootings. Participants held 
candles to remember the victims.Joselin Padron-Rasines, UF Student 
Body president, said these events were tragic, and related them to last November’s Florida State University library shooting.
“Last year at FSU, we learned how all 
too easily these things can happen close to home,” she said.
Kevin Doan, UF Student Body vice pres-
ident, said students and the community shouldn’t be numb to campus shootings.
“These communities don’t deserve to go 
through this,” he said. “No one should.”
UF President Kent Fuchs lit a white can-
dle for the victims.
Fuchs said it was important to remem-
ber fellow students, and he thought it was important for him to be there.
“You can’t control what people will 
do,” he said. “You do pray that nothing will happen here.”
Alexa Ide, a UF applied physiology and 
kinesiology junior, said the vigil made her 
think about how fragile and short life can 
be. 
“It’s sad to think about,” the 20-year-
old said.
Mandy Devane, a UF health education 
and behavior junior, said though the pro-gram was short, she liked that SG lit can-dles for the victims.
Devane, 20, said she felt awful for the 
students at Umpqua.
“They went to school that day thinking 
it would be a normal day,” she said.UF SG holds vigil for Umpqua shooting victims 
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Students hold candles on Turlington Plaza at a vigil on Friday morning for the victims 
of the Oct. 1 shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon. Roo Poage (right), a 19-year-old UF architecture sophomore, said she was terrified when she first heard about the shooting because her close friend lives near the college.
CAMPUS
By Gabriela DeAlmeida
Alligator Contributing Writer
After the rain passed, about 
800 UF students and alumni in 
patterned bikinis and bright board 
shorts crowded Lake Wauburg’s 
South Shore on Saturday.
For the first time, WakeFest, 
the annual fundraiser hosted by 
the UF Wakeboard Club com-
monly known as Gator Wake, was held during the Fall term because USA Wakeboard rescheduled its 
national competition. The club 
raised about $3,000, which will be used for the club’s competi-tions and practices, said Spencer Sinclair, Gator Wake president. 
At WakeFest, students wake-
boarded around the lake, trailing behind a boat. At the end, a few people wakesurfed, where athletes 
aren’t strapped into the board like they would be with wakeboard-
ing. Contestants were scored on 
style, technique and the difficulty 
of the tricks performed, from flips to extreme turns, said Sinclair, the 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior.
Sinclair said this year, Wake-
Fest also added a men’s open divi-sion in which only current college athletes could compete. 
Three UF students competed in this round.
UF aerospace engineering 
freshman Porter Strickland said his favorite part of WakeFest was 
watching the professional riders 
do tricks.“It’s something (I can) look 
forward to if I can get to that level 
one day,” the 18-year-old said.
UF aerospace and mechanical 
engineering junior Tommy Power 
competed in the men’s intermedi-ate competition.
“It’s not so much competing 
against each other; it’s competing with each other,” the 20-year-old said. “It’s a great support system.”WakeFest fundraiser held in Fall for first time, brings 800 people 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HARTFORD, Conn. — Stu-
dents at the University of Con-
necticut are trying to use an em-barrassing video about macaroni and cheese to raise a little ched-
dar.
The video of a fellow student 
berating food service workers 
who refused to sell him jalapeno-bacon mac and cheese prompted a group of students to start an online fundraiser to give the be-leaguered employees a well-de-served night out.
“A top-20 research university 
shouldn’t have to be redeeming its name after one bad egg goes and ruins our reputation,” fresh-man Sadie Rumsey said.
Rumsey and her friends set 
up a page on GoFundMe.com (gofundme.com/vs5yvngw) to show their support for the work-
ers abused in the video captured 
inside the university’s student union last week. As of press time, the page had collected more than $1,500.
The nine-minute, obscenity-
laced video clip posted online shows freshman Luke Gatti argu-ing with and eventually shoving Dave Robinson, a food service su-pervisor. Police and the manager said Gatti was refused service Oct. 4 for carrying an open alco-
hol container.
The video, which became fod-
der for late-night talk show hosts, 
shows the 19-year-old question-ing why in America he can’t have beer in the building. He uses a gay slur against Robinson and re-peatedly demands, “Just give me some (expletive) bacon-jalapeno 
mac and cheese.”
After shoving Robinson, Gatti 
was tackled by another employ-
ee, was arrested by a police offi-cer and spat at the manager be-fore being led out of the building.
Gatti, of Bayville, New York, 
has not returned phone calls or an email seeking comment. He is 
due in court Tuesday on charges 
of breach of peace and criminal trespass.UConn mac and cheese 
spawns fundraiser
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
PLANNED PROTEST 
Santiago Benjumea (left), a 23-year-old Ignite School of Ministry sophomore, and Karen Paige, a 
49-year-old administration assistant, stand among about 25 protestors picketing Planned Parenthood on Saturday. Paige’s son was conceived when she was raped at 15, and she said the world would have lost out on his contributions if she had an abortion. “We are at war, ” Benjumea said. “We are out here in combat. ”
“It’s something (I can) look 
forward to if I can get to that 
level one day.”
Porter Strickland
UF aerospace 
engineering freshmanThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The ﬂ  u ought 
to bring UF to a 
grinding halt
The Fall Flu: Even if you’ve never had it, you’ve cer-
tainly come into close contact with it. For those of you who are new to UF — or just have really strong 
immune systems — the Fall Flu is the annual time 
of year when cold- and ﬂ  u-like symptoms ravage the 
Student Body. Some call it Gator Flu or, even more charm-ingly, the UF Plague. GPAs are crippled, dates are ruined, 
everything becomes miserable for a solid week or so and 
Netﬂ  ix (note the absence of “chill”) becomes one’s top weekend priority.
The Fall Flu, like all deadly viruses, is spread in the most 
innocuous of ways; careless kisses lost to time and the on-
set of the morning at Midtown; sharing a pencil with your 
classmate who always forgets that most assessments are scantron-based in that class; and BATHROOMS.
As effective as the aforementioned means of contami-
nation may be, they pale in comparison to the classroom. Yes, the classroom, where students with 99-degree tempera-ture fevers drag themselves to due to outdated attendance policies; the classroom, where a simple sneeze, misdirected cough or careless handshake can adversely affect the health 
of scores of students.
We’re going to make a plea: If you are sick, please, stay 
in your home, dorm or fraternity/sorority basement. We get 
it: Attendance policies being what they are, you are com-
pelled by mandate to drag your diseased and germ-ridden 
body to a room full of (relatively) healthy individuals. How-ever, it is much more beneﬁ  cial to both your health and the larger UF populace if you just stay at home, cuddle up to season ﬁ  ve of “Breaking Bad” and recuperate.
We’re also going to make a request to the university, 
instructors and teaching assistants: Please don’t penalize us for not coming to class while sick. We understand it can be difﬁ  cult to motivate students without strict attendance 
policies, and we are more than sympathetic to the idea that 
when you show up to work, you’d actually like for there to be students for you to educate. 
At the same time, keeping a ﬁ  rm adherence to an already 
rigid attendance policy affects more than just the sickly stu-
dent who might miss class. It affects every person that stu-
dent comes near.
Some would counter that the presence of “excused ab-
sences” if a doctor’s note is provided offsets the aforemen-
tioned concerns. That’s all well and good, but the Fall Flu 
is also called the UF Plague for a reason: It spreads quickly and effectively. Given the difﬁ  culty of arranging appoint-ments at the UF Student Health Care Center on a regular week, the idea of getting an appointment that works within 
your schedule during ﬂ  u season seems like a fool’s errand.
We’re abundantly aware this editorial isn’t going to im-
mediately stop students from contaminating their class-
mates or convince professors that more than three absences 
isn’t the worst thing in the world; at the least, we hope it 
serves as half-decent tissue material in these tough times.Faith has its place on college campuses   
Faith is a subject many students brush aside 
or simply disregard. School and job oppor-tunities and personal experiences leave little time for spiritual contemplation.
I know this well: UF is the only school 
I’ve attended that is not religious. Before my time in college, I was part of a strong Catholic community. I went to Mass every Saturday and even helped out at services when needed. I ex-perienced 12 great years in the Catholic educa-tion system. But when I came to UF, I pushed faith and that community aside.
I slowly but surely became enticed with the perfect 
prose of Christopher Hitchens, a member of that one group 
your atheist friend always quotes to sound smarter: the 
Four Horsemen of the Non-Apocalypse. Being a person who regarded himself as a highly intelligent young scholar, I took up their banner and professed a life of reason and a life of faith are not compatible. Faith is simply unnecessary and serves no purpose.
But I just recently realized how wrong I was. Faith does 
have a place. Faith gives us a sense of purpose and a sense of pride. Performed properly, faith stresses the importance 
of caring for your fellow human being.
I am currently experiencing a bit of a spiritual reawak-
ening. I am taking a more contemplative look at Catholic 
theology. It’s remarkable how lively and engaging the sub-ject matter is compared to what I was taught during my grade-school days. I am going back to Mass and am brush-ing up on my Latin again — Catholics will know what I mean. And I started charitable work once more.  
While relearning the thoughtful Catholic belief system 
strengthened my journey back to faith, two events real-ly brought that mission home. The ﬁ  rst is obvious: Pope Francis’ visit to America. I won’t dwell on this too much, but I’ll mention seeing a religious man use his faith to im-prove the lives of others, serve those in need and not dog-matically judge his neighbors is powerful.
The second event was attending Fast-a-Thon here at 
UF, hosted by Islam on Campus. Students of all religions and even non-religions were invited to fast from sunrise to sunset Tuesday and then partake in a celebratory meal at the end of the day. It was fantastic to see a community of believers work toward improving the lives of others and em-
brace and champion their faith.  
Rashhan Siddique, the vice president of ex-
ternal affairs for IOC, told me fasting accom-
plishes three things at once: Fasting is inherently spiritual and makes us become God-conscious; fasting cleans and puriﬁ  es the soul; and fasting 
makes us realize how blessed we actually are — so many people in need do not have a celebratory meal at the end of the day.  
Keynote speaker AbdelRahman Murphy stressed the 
importance of making private practice public habit. By fast-ing, this ritual makes us privately aware of our relation to God and publically aware of our relation to our neighbors, effectively boosting a sense of community and a sense of moral purpose.
Fasting not only strengthened the spiritual lives of those 
in attendance, but the proceeds of the event went toward two worthy causes: Project Downtown Gainesville, a char-
ity close to home that helps the homeless, and Islamic 
Relief, an international charity that improves the lives of those around the world with a special emphasis placed on Nepal for this event.
Many current and former students who attended 
stressed how important faith is in their lives. Like me, their faith was tested when they came to UF. But through groups like IOC, their faith blossomed and is put to good use.
My return to faith came not as a result of saying two ad-
ditional prayers each morning or attending an extra Mass. My faith came back because I realized how truly integral it is to the human experience. Religious life not only ben-eﬁ  ts the practitioner; it also beneﬁ  ts his or her neighbors as well. I relearned private practice that becomes public habit is faith performed properly.   
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Equality of opportunity is often cited to un-
dermine criticisms pertaining to the lack of women or people of color in positions of power and in certain professions. Pretending we live in a post-racial and post-sexist soci-
ety does not make it so. Gender, race, sexuality and socio-economic status can affect the kind of opportunities a person has. The idea of equality of opportunity in the U.S. is a myth. Although things have certainly improved with time, there is still much that prevents equal opportunity from being a reality.
For instance, one could argue the Free Applica-
tion for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, allows for 
the equality of opportunity. It ALLOWS people to 
apply for ﬁ  nancial aid. In practice, however, infor-mation on the FAFSA is not accessible for all pro-spective college students, causing many to think they will never be able to afford college. The fact that it is a separate form students go out of their way to ﬁ  ll out is one issue, but many do not know about the form at all.
Additionally, parents may be unwilling to pro-
vide their children with the tax data to ﬁ  ll it out, thinking the effort may be useless. Even when someone does everything right — ﬁ  lls out the form correctly and sends it to the right schools — they may not get sufﬁ  cient aid because it does not take into account the many things people do not or cannot plan for, like medical bills. On top of that, while college costs have soared, federal grants for those students who have ﬁ  nancial need have not 
increased at the same pace.
Blaming people for not accessing resources is 
not going to help them. It just serves to reinforce 
a repressive system. We cannot move past these issues if we keep ﬁ  nding new reasons that certain groups are not performing.
When it comes to college attendance, equality 
of opportunity just does not exist. The concept is often used to portray populations who don’t have 
equal outcomes (women, people of color, work-
ing class) as not having achieved much because they didn’t take advantage of their resources. It is a way of denying existing problems, because, as the saying goes, you can take a horse to water but you can’t make it drink. But college admissions are much more complex than that.
If equality of opportunity exists, then afﬁ  rma-
tive action isn’t necessary anymore, the wage gap 
doesn’t exist and everyone in the U.S. who has the 
academic capacity to enter college does so because of the FAFSA. But that’s not the reality we live in.
Even academic capacity is not necessarily an 
equal playing ﬁ  eld. Academic performance starts diverging as early as elementary school. Every-thing is not as equal as it seems.
The students whose parents pay for tutors, SAT 
courses and even private guidance counselors 
have a considerable advantage over those who do 
not. There will be some who succeed despite hav-ing the odds stacked against them, but they should not be used as proof equality of opportunity exists, because if it truly did, then there would be equal outcomes.
There is often debate over whether equality of 
opportunity or equality of outcome should be the goal for governmental policy. Until equality of op-
portunity actually exists, the entire discussion is 
hypothetical. Once true equality of opportunity is there, equal outcome should follow.
Nicole Dan is a political science sophomore at 
UF. Her column appears on Mondays.Equal opportunity 
still doesn’t existColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org“In the past the man has been ﬁ  rst; in the 
future the system must be ﬁ  rst.” — Fred-erick Winslow Taylor, “Principles of Sci-
entiﬁ  c Management”
Karl Marx wrote, “Production thus not 
only creates an object for the subject, but also a sub-
ject for the object.” Walter Benjamin wrote that “Con-
struction occupies the role of the sub-conscious.” 
Benjamin wrote of the glass, marble and iron of the Paris arcades; of the panoramic experience of reality in a world in which, per Marx, “All that (was) solid melts into air.”
Our reality is uglier. We walk Turlington Hall’s stale, eccrine 
halls. We ﬂ  ood the musty, sun-shielded esplanade lit by the alien glow of the Sobe Life Water vending machine. We sniff the uremic breeze by the bathrooms, the Dinty Moore that wafts 
from the microwave. 
We scan the UFO immensities of Turlington’s façade, ready 
for takeoff and splattered with Tutoring Zone ﬂ  yers. We ﬁ  dget 
in classrooms ﬂ  ooded with ﬂ  uorescent light and hermetically sealed from the boiling outdoors. 
We rush past the cofﬁ  n-shaped table in the sunken, de facto 
smoking room from which a ﬂ  ank-crushing passage sneaks to Rolfs Hall.
As psychologist Paul Watzlawick wrote, “It is impossible not 
to communicate.” 
If rococo ironized a France on the verge of revolution with 
its roses, its rufﬂ  es and its pretty pink brushwork, Turlington affronts us with its very absence of ornament, the very denial of any opiate. Turlington punishes us for studying the neoliberal 
arts and sciences.
Turlington is an exercise in abnegation.
Turlington is an endurance sport.Turlington is not a proscenium, it is a cell. There are no 
classroom windows. Higher up, two portholes barred by right angles, gaze over a carnival of bad faith volunteerism and cou-pon books. Still higher, a ribbon of blacked-out ofﬁ  ce windows unwinds, a negative revealing nothing.
Whatever eyes there may be are hidden. Turlington itself is 
watching us.
Turlington encloses us from the outside and protects us 
from it. Architect Adolf Loos said, “We should build in a style which shuts out the outer world.” What are we hiding, and from 
whom?
Turlington is not Brutalist, it is brutalizing. Turlington traps 
us in pupil-sized desks, security-grade ﬂ  uorescence and off-
white cinderblock. Turlington taunts us with our own insigniﬁ  -cance.
Paul Virilio on bunkers: “I was most impressed by a feeling, 
internal and external, of being immediately crushed.”
We say Turlington was designed to prevent student riots, to 
drive radicals into corners. We say if Turlington had windows, 
protesters would have jumped out. J. Bryan Lowder couldn’t 
ﬁ  nd a single historian of Brutalism who veriﬁ  ed that explana-tion.
We would like to jump out of Turlington. There is no exit.Turlington is a holding room.W.G. Sebald wrote of bourgeois architecture that, 
“At the most we gaze at it in wonder, a kind of won-
der which in itself is a form of dawning horror, for 
somehow we know by instinct that outsize buildings cast the shadow of their own destruction before them, and are designed from the ﬁ  rst with an eye to their 
later existence as ruins.”
Turlington is the Procrustean deathbed the mid-
century built and then ﬁ  tted itself to.
Architect and Professor Mark Pasnik wrote, “(Brutalist) build-
ings were considered to be strong and robust, but those were at-tributes about permanence, not about controlling populations... 
Figures like Paul Rudolph…  were utopian, not dystopian, in their outlook.” Scholar Timothy Rohan wrote Rudolph’s build-ings “intended to be richly expressive citadels for (high) culture” 
in the face of “mass culture, overpopulation, and science.”
Turlington is a mausoleum for culture.
How could it have not been known Turlington was disorient-
ing, dizzying, dominating and Kafkaesque? 
Turlington was not built to be used; it was built to be built.
Turlington is a dungeon we were not intended to enter.
In 1996, Turlington’s lead architect, Mark Schweizer, began 
his last designs: prisons in South Carolina.
An inquiry to the UF Physical Plant Division informed me UF 
does not keep records of alternative plans; it keeps records of 
what was built.
Totalitarianism does not permit alternatives.
Le Corbusier, who cleaned and purged the City, said build-
ings were “(machines) for living in.” Turlington is a machine for 
living a certain way. We have invaded Turlington.
We have insulted its poorly placed exits, its cavernous stair-
wells, its vanishing corners, its ﬁ  reproofed doors; its Runic keys 
of misdirecting arrows. 
Turlington barricades us from each other. Turlington is a model of non-communication.
Turlington is a labyrinth without a Minotaur.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Turlington and the totalitarian architectureColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
“An inquiry to the UF Physical 
Plant Division informed me 
UF does not keep records of 
alternative plans; it keeps 
records of what was built. 
Totalitarianism does not permit 
alternatives.”8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
Ian Alzuru, 8, plays in The Repurpose Project’s latest art installation 
during the Fall Trash Festival on Saturday. The geodesic dome cov-ered in plastic “trash” celebrates repurposing discarded items into artwork. Ian’s mother, artist Juanita Incoronato, said she goes to The Repurpose Project for art supplies while her son looks for toys.
Photos by Andrea Cornejo
 Alligator Staff
RIGHT:
Tina Kirkpatrick (left), a nurse at North Florida Regional Medical Center, enjoys beer a from First Magnitude Brewery and talks with attorney Heather Lee dur-
ing the Fall Trash Festival. “I love 
this place, ” Lee said. “I’m always looking to repurpose things. ”By Gaby Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the middle of the lot Satur-
day, children decorated a dome. 
The core of the dome was sim-
ply constructed with repurposed 
pipes, discarded CDs and chicken 
wire. But as the children decorat-
ed the wire with fabric and plas-tic, it became art. 
The decoration of the dome 
was part of the Fall Trash Festi-val on Saturday evening, hosted by The Repurpose Project, a lo-cal non-proﬁ  t organization. More than 400 people attended the 
festival to help decorate the new 
dome and educate people about sustainability, said Sarah Goff, co-founder of The Repurpose Project. 
“What we want to do with this 
event and with this event space is create an inspiration of how you can use the material that we have 
here to inspire other people to 
think, ‘Oh, this isn’t necessarily something that should be thrown away,’” Goff said. “It can have other purposes.”
The Geo Dome Trash Sculpture 
was speciﬁ  cally created by chil-dren at the Master Builder Camp in Gainesville. The sculpture, 
which is outside the organiza-
tion’s building on Northeast 23rd Avenue, was designed to teach a lesson about the environmental issues of plastic. 
In addition to the dome deco-
rating, activities included live mu-sic, a puppet show, face painting, a photo booth and the Physics Bus, a mobile science museum. 
The event was fueled entirely 
by donations with no additional costs, according to Goff. Anything at the event was donated or re-
furbished trash. There was no en-
trance fee for the festival.
For Angela Melidosian, a 
19-year-old UF sustainability studies sophomore, community is important to establish sustain-ability. 
“The little things do matter 
like recycling, but for it to actu-
ally make a difference you have to 
get an entire community to do it,” Melidosian said.Trash festival engages community in sustainability
LEFT:
David Findlay, 70, enjoys live 
music and popcorn with his dog T az during the Fall Trash Festi-val. “Both my pound dog and I enjoy these type of community events, ” Findlay said.
BELOW:
UF ﬁ  nance junior Peyton Hil-ford (left) looks at ﬁ  lm negatives and slides with 20-year-old UF graphic design junior Maitane Romagosa inside The Repur-pose Project during the Fall Trash Festival. “I love trash, ” Hil-
ford, 20, said.
More than 400 attended
 Rebecca Butler sings with her band, GUTS, at the Fall Trash 
Festival on Saturday. The all-female Gainesville quartet is an indie soul, folk-rock type of band, said GUTS guitarist, drummer and bassist Samantha Jones (not pictured).MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
LOCAL
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Southern rock music, cold beer 
and local politics drew dozens to 
Gainesville mayor hopeful Lauren Poe’s ﬁ  rst fundraiser Friday evening at First Magnitude Brewery.
The former city commissioner 
is one of two candidates currently running in the 2016 mayoral race, according to the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections website. The other candidate is Donald Shepherd Sr.
Poe’s platform focuses on chil-
dren, quality of life and transporta-
tion in Gainesville.
“They all tie into equity, and I 
think one of the real challenges we 
have here in Gainesville is equity,” the Santa Fe College economics and history professor said as a band from his church played southern rock music and supporters mingled. 
During his speech, Poe outlined 
three initiatives: helping at-risk children, creating safer and more efﬁ  cient transportation and making Gainesville a great place to live. 
“You shouldn’t have to have a 
lot of money to have a high qual-ity of life,” he said. “We need to in-vest into things like park recreation (and) cultural affairs ... because 
what that does is it gives people a 
great environment to live in, a great community to live in, regardless of their income.”
While he discussed these initia-
tives with supporters during the fundraiser, Poe neglected to men-tion Gainesville Regional Utility rates even as the current mayor and 
other city ofﬁ  cials struggle to lower 
rates. 
Jim Konish, a civic activist, 
blames Poe because he was one of the city commissioners who ap-proved a biomass contract with Gainesville Renewable Energy Cen-ter, which contributed to GRU’s high rates.
“The problem with Lauren Poe 
is ... we would be back to the same old politics that led to all the prob-
lems we’re in,” the Gainesville resi-
dent said. 
“Going back to Poe would be 
going back to all the failed policies that we’re just slowly beginning to address,” Konish continued.
Before his speech, however, Poe 
did mention his hope for coopera-tion between the city government 
and GRU customers to consume less energy. 
“I think it’s unrealistic for any-
body to say that they’re going to 
lower rates,” he said. “The people that have said that in recent years have not done it.”
Some of Poe’s former students 
who attended the fundraiser believe Poe can follow through with his ini-tiatives. 
“He had such a passion for 
American history and American government and I know that he knows what he’s talking about,” said India Jackson, a 27-year-old UCF alumna who dual-enrolled at 
Santa Fe.“I know that as a teacher, he 
believes in inspiring the youth and 
really connecting with the youth in a way that I always felt like I could just have a conversation with him.”
Jackson, who had Poe as a 
teacher and professor while study-
ing at Fort Clarke Middle School 
and Santa Fe, also said Poe can be a voice for the people.
“I believe when he says he’s go-
ing to make a change, that he’s go-ing to go through with it and that he knows how to implement and change government from where it is now to where it needs to be,” she 
said.  
 Lauren Poe holds fundraiser for 2016 mayoral race 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Gainesville mayoral candidate Lauren Poe mingles at his ﬁ  rst fundraiser on Friday at First Magnitude 
Brewery. During his speech, Poe said he plans to focus on children, quality of life and transportation.
Poe’s initiatives
 His platform focuses 
on children, quality of life 
and more efﬁ  cient and 
safer transportation in 
Gainesville.
 Poe said he plans to cre-
ate opportunities and activ-ities to help at risk children 
and those with home issues 
or nutritional challenges. Such activities, he said, would include science, ath-letics, art and culture. 
 An advocate of cycling, 
the mayor hopeful wants to create more innovative, safe and efﬁ  cient means of transportation.
 With some of the high-
est utility rates in the state, Poe said lowering GRU rates won’t be easy.
 Poe said it’s important 
to target low-income, high-usage customers “to try to lessen the burden off them, the ones that really are 
struggling and can’t afford 
their bills, regardless of what the rates are.”MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
CONDO FOR SALE:Meadowbrook Golf Course Upstairs Corner Unit, 2/2, 1273 Sq Ft. MLS # 367033 $124,900. Call Mary Jo Brick 352-219-0430 San Felasco Real Estate Services, Inc for an appt.    10-14-15-5-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-16-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer SocietyRoad to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
1. When was the last time before 
2014 (Los Angeles Angels) that a 
team with the best record in baseball 
did not win a game in the postseason?
2. In 2014, Kolten Wong hit the 
fourth postseason walk-off homer in St. Louis Cardinals history. Name two 
of the first three to do it.
3. How many seasons did Hall of 
Fame punter Ray Guy lead the NFL in punting?
4. When was the last time before 
2013 that Wichita State’s men’s bas-ketball team reached the Final Four?
5. Name the last time before 2015 
that the Anaheim Mighty Ducks 
reached the conference finals of the NHL’s Stanley Cup playoffs.
6. At which Olympics did men’s ice 
hockey make its debut?
7. Who was the first golfer to make 
three eagles in one round at the Mas-ters?
Answers
1. In 1980, it happened to the New 
York Yankees.
2. Ozzie Smith (1985), Jim Edmonds 
(2004) and David Freese (2011).
3. Three times — 1974, ‘75 and ‘77.4. It was 1965.5. It was 2007, when they won the 
Stanley Cup.
6. It was 1920, at the Summer Olym-
pics. Men’s hockey became part of the Winter Olympics in 1924.
7. Dustin Johnson, in 2015.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 12, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
CITT Web Services captioning has an OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an
after school program at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed.
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
10-16-15-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 18 Personals
ACROSS
1 Frozen treat
shown on its
package withsyrup
5 Computer
storage media
10 Sunscreen letters
13 Maxwell House
decaf brand
15 From Taiwan,
say
16 On the __ vive:
alert
17 *Strapless
handbag
19 www address20 “Whoops!”21 “Get this away
from me”
23 Former great
26 Carolyn who
created Nancy
Drew
27 “Aha!”
28 Home __: Lowe’s
rival
32 Old Russian
autocrat
33 Neglect, as duty
35 “Ten-hut!”
reversal
37 “Oh yeah? __
who?”
38 *Party favors
holder
41 Physique, briefly44 __ Field:
BrooklynDodgers’ home
46 Piano practice
piece
48 Sagan’s sci.50 Wined and dined53 Frosty flakes54 Physical therapy,
briefly
56 “Better luck next
time!”
58 Pizza seasoning61 Like much fall
weather
62 Very angry63 Warning in a
roller coaster,and a hint to thefirst words of theanswers tostarred clues
68 Org. for shrinks69 Fur fortune-
maker
70 “Everything all
right?”
71 Introverted
72 Start of a wish73 Texter’s goofDOWN
1 PC undo key
2 65-Down’s lass
3 Bearded antelope
4 Bavarian “fest”
month
5 Novelist du
Maurier
6 Ames sch.7 “What can I help
you with?”iPhone app
8 __ cow: big
income producer
9 Go furtively
10 *Runner-on-third
play
11 Dog Chow maker12 Coffeemaker
insert
14 Workout woe18 Cleared weeds,
say
22 Nero Wolfe and
Sam Spade,
briefly
23 Snake’s sound24 “Off the Court”
author Arthur
25 *Carpe diem
29 Blue Ribbon
brewer
30 Horseplayer’s
letters
31 Herbal brew34 CIA Cold War foe36 Mellow, as wine39 NFL official40 Consumed
42 Smell
43 Damp at dawn45 Blow one’s own
horn
47 “The Waste
Land” poet
48 Kitchen allures49 High-ranking
angel
51 “Play another
song!”52 Singer Celine
55 Persian faith that
promotes spiritual
unity
57 Perfume giant59 Poet Ogden60 Not fooled by
64 George Bush’s
org.
65 2-Down’s fellow
66 Dance for teens
in socks
67 Fight ender,
briefly
By Ron Toth and C.C. Burnikel(c)2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/1510/12/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 12, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Ray in the water
6 Lasting
consideration
15 Times in ads16 Calculated
17 On one’s toes
18 Periodic
synchronizations
19 Key ingredient in
a Bloody Caesar
21 High-fashion
shoemaker
Jimmy
22 Royal Botanic
Gardens locale
23 Chef’s
introduction?
25 Do a farm vet’s
job
27 Frank’s cousin
29 Cried from a
shelter
31 1989 James
Cameron film,
with “The”
33 Discontinues38 House
adjustment
40 Initiates detailed
plans
41 1932 Lake
Placid goldmedalist
42 Least exciting44 Rapper __ Moe
Dee
45 Malting material
49 Itinerary
elements: Abbr.
51 Sometime
substitute for 45-
Across
52 Spread on the
table
53 Native whose
land has anAtlantic andCaribbeancoastline
55 Nebraska tribe60 Don’t disturb61 Sign, as an
agreement
62 Challenge for a
future doctor
63 Hit from behind64 Items in a slush
pile: Abbr.DOWN
1 Bite sites
2 First recurring
“SNL” character
3 Eroded4 Insurance policy
datum
5 Spanish pronoun6 Edward Jones
Dome athlete
7 Masonry tool8 Seventh of 249 Once around
10 1986 Jeff
Goldblum film,with “The”
11 It’s hard to get rid
of one
12 Wyoming
neighbor
13 Hubbub14 Big name in
printers
20 Bichon Frise, e.g.24 Sound flustered25 Chrysler Building
style
26 Heavens28 Rx amts.30 Group of fathers32 Sudden rush34 Frenzily35 Misses at many
bullfights
36 Pleasant
37 Lack of 
originality
39 Jazz singer 
Anita
43 Word with caddy
or ball
45 Shaded recess
46 Flared dress
shape47 __-Wreck48 Hardly an
extrovert
50 Storage areas54 Prefix with hertz
56 Poetic
preposition
57 Storage place
58 Word between
two ages
59 Onetime Bell
Atlantic rival
By Bruce Venzke©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/10/1510/10/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 10, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#
Mary Wise and the Florida 
volleyball team won its second consecutive conference home game with a 3-0 sweep against Auburn on Sunday. Read the story on pg. 14.Against the Tigers from Columbia, Missouri, the Gators’ offense was good enough to get the job done.
But against the Tigers from 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, a perfor-
mance similar to Saturday night’s 
won’t cut it.
Let’s be honest: Florida’s of-
fense was Muschampian against 
Missouri.
Aside from the ﬁ  rst three of-
fensive series, which resulted in two ﬁ  rst-quarter touchdowns, the Gators only managed to gain 196 yards while posting a big goose egg 
on the scoreboard in their remain-
ing 11 offensive possessions.For the game as a whole, Flor-
ida had 337 yards of total offense 
— just 54 yards more than it had in 
last year’s game against Missouri, the 42-13 homecoming debacle that had fans leading “Fire Mus-champ” chants in the stands.
This doesn’t mean it’s time to 
panic — far from it. Florida’s of-fense has been impressive consid-ering expectations, and coach Jim McElwain is probably happy for some struggles that will keep his players grounded.
Plus, the UF defense has been 
able to more than make up for any deﬁ  ciencies from its offensive counterpart.
If those deﬁ  ciencies continue 
against LSU, however, Leonard Fournette and Co. will be the ones doing the grounding.
If you’ve been living under a 
rock since the start of the football season, Fournette is probably the best college running back the sport has seen since Adrian Peterson.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF defensive coordinator off to a perfect start 
in the NFL
Former UF defensive coordinator and current Atlanta Falcons head coach Dan 
Quinn is 5-0 in his debut season after a 25-19 win against Washington on Sunday.  UF IS GIVING UP JUST 3.8 
YARDS ON THIRD DOWN.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
The signs are present on the 
ﬁ  eld. 
On third down, UF assistants 
jump up and down, holding post-
ers with dollar signs high into the air as they work to pump up the crowd.
To the Gators, third down is 
money down, the time for them to prove their worth.
It’s a chance for the defense 
to stop opponents dead in their tracks.
Third-down efﬁ  ciency can 
make or break a team, and that one down can be the difference between a touchdown, a ﬁ  eld goal or a punt.
Through six games this sea-
son, the Gators have made op-posing offenses uncomfortable on third down — regardless of the score, distance or play formation they go up against.
“They play the game fast,” UF 
coach Jim McElwain said of his 
defense. “They’re deﬁ  nitely one 
heck of a unit.”
      
In Florida’s 21-3 road win 
against Missouri on Saturday, the Gators stopped the Tigers on 13 consecutive third-down attempts, with Missouri’s lone third-down 
conversion coming on its second-
to-last play of the game, a 12-yard run by Chase Abbington with less than a minute to play.
“We got off the ﬁ  eld,” McEl-wain said. “That’s huge.”
So far this year, the Gators’ 
defense has been getting off the ﬁ  eld on a regular basis.
At the midway point of the 
regular season, Florida is allow-ing opponents to convert just 31.9 percent of their third-down attempts, almost seven percent-age points lower than the 38.7 percent conversion rate they al-lowed in 2014.
In conference play, that con-
version rate dips to 30.6 percent. 
In 2014, Southeastern Conference 
teams moved the chains on 43 percent of their third-down at-tempts against UF.
Florida’s third-down success 
this season, in part, can be attrib-uted to its ability to stymie oppo-nents on ﬁ  rst and second downs.
Out of 94 third-down attempts 
the defense has faced this sea-son, opponents have faced third-and-long — a third down with at least 7 yards to go — 50 times, moving the chains just 11 times (22 percent). Conversely, Florida has allowed offenses into third and short scenarios — needing 3 yards or less to pick up a new set 
of downs — just 19 times.
On average, opposing offenses 
are about 7.9 yards away from 
the ﬁ  rst-down marker when third down rolls around.
And with the Gators giving up 
a mere 3.8 yards on the money down, the special teams are usu-ally trotting out one play later.
“(We) just worry about win-
ning that play, whatever that play is,” McElwain said earlier this season. “Go do the best you can that singular event.”Third down is indeed 
the money down for the Gators' defense
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
The Florida football team has reached 
a height the program hasn’t seen in more 
than two seasons: A top-10 ranking in the AP Poll.
The Gators (6-0, 4-0 Southeastern Con-
ference) check in at No. 8 in the newest AP Poll, which was released on Sunday afternoon. 
It's the highest ranking for the program 
since it was No. 3 heading into the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 2, 2013.
The Gators would lose to No. 22 Lou-
isville 33-22 as they ﬁ  nished 11-2 on the 
season.  
Florida moved up three spots in the poll 
after defeating Missouri 21-3 on Saturday 
night in Columbia. UF moved ahead of 
then-No. 10 Oklahoma, which was upset 
by unranked Texas, and leapfroged No. 9 Texas A&M, which was on a bye week. Florida will now turn its attention to 
No. 6 LSU (5-0, 3-0 SEC), who is fresh off a 45-24 win over South Carolina. UF will 
head to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, for its sec-
ond consecutive road game.
The game will be the Gators’ ﬁ  rst top-10 
matchup since Nov. 24, 2012 when No. 6 
Florida beat No. 10 Florida State 37-26 in 
Tallahassee.UF achieves highest ranking in AP poll since 2012 seasonSEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15JUST SOME HACK
Florida's oﬀ  ense must improve before LSU
AP Photo
Florida teammates celebrate with their fans after a 21-3 win against Missouri on Saturday on Faurot 
Field at Memorial Stadium in Columbia, Missouri.
Gators are ranked No. 8 in poll14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Florida’s Betsy Middleton is a quiet as-
sassin.
She doesn’t usually try to become the 
center of attention when she’s on the 
pitch, but in the 24th minute of the No. 12 Gators’ (10-3-1, 4-2-1 Southeastern Confer-ence) 2-1 win over LSU (8-4-3, 2-4-1 SEC) 
Sunday in Gainesville, she was just that.
Notching just her fourth start of the 
season, the junior transfer from Miami put 
the Gators on the board seemingly out of nowhere.
Up until that point of the game, neither 
team had much momentum, and Florida was having some trouble connecting on its passes.
Then, junior forward Savannah Jordan 
took a shot from the left side of the box that ricocheted off the crossbar, eventually reaching Middleton near the top of the box.
Middleton ripped a touch from Brooke 
Sharp that hit off the far left post and into the net to give the Gators a 1-0 lead.
It was Middleton’s third goal of the sea-
son and her first as a fixture in the starting 
lineup.
But, she immediately directed the atten-
tion away from herself.
“This team works best when we’re all 
moving together,” Middleton said. “Our best goals are the ones that come when 
multiple people touch the ball.“I don’t ever want to see myself as some 
star player. I’ve always just considered my-
self just one of the group.”
The second half erupted quickly in the 
Gators’ favor when Jordan scored her SEC-
leading 14th goal of the season in the 50th 
minute to put the Gators up by two.
Senior defender Claire Falknor drove a 
defense-splitting pass on the ground in the 
direction of Jordan, who put the ball past LSU goalie Catalina Rubiano at the near post.
The goal highlighted a second half that 
saw Florida outshoot the Tigers 17 to five after having been outshot six to four in the first half.
Florida coach Becky Burleigh gave cred-
it to the Gators’ ability to come out of the halftime locker room with more energy than LSU could handle.  “I think it was wearing them down,” 
Burleigh said. “I think they got really tired, 
and … we were able to take advantage of 
that.”
Just six minutes after her assist to Jor-
dan, Falknor made the save of the day on the defensive end.
The Tigers’ Fernanda Piña headed a 
goal near the left post that hit off of UF 
goalie Kaylan Marckese. 
Then, with the ball nearing the net, 
Falknor made the goal-line save with a 
clearance.
The score was 2-0 in Florida’s favor, but 
Falknor’s effort became a key moment for the Gators due to a late goal by the Tigers.
In the 89th minute, a LSU free kick 
eventually resulted in a goal from point-blank range by the Tigers’ Lexi Gibbs.
However, it wasn’t enough, allowing 
the Gators to secure the win and a six-point weekend.
“We’re just building off of that,” Jordan 
said of the wins this weekend against Ten-
nessee and LSU.
“It gives us a little bit of energy to finish 
out the SEC.”Gators pounce on Tigers early in 2-1 home victory
VOLLEYBALL
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
It’s not how you start, it’s how 
you finish.
 Florida proved that on Sunday.The UF volleyball team over-
came sluggish starts in each set 
to sweep Auburn 25-23, 25-21, 25-18 on Sunday afternoon in the 
O’Connell Center. 
The No. 17 Gators capped off 
a perfect weekend homestand that 
included a win vs. Texas A&M on Friday in which they also didn’t 
drop a set. 
Despite the final score, slop-
py play in each set’s early mo-
ments became a concerning trend 
throughout the match. 
“It was a sweep in the final box 
score, but it didn’t feel anything 
like a sweep,” coach Mary Wise said.
The Gators (11-4, 3-3 South-
eastern Conference) were plagued throughout the match by poor serving. 
The team committed 14 service 
errors to Auburn’s seven and will need to cut back on the amount of unforced errors if it wants to be one of the best teams in the con-
ference.
“We kept missing serves, and 
it’s hard to get any rhythm when 
every other ball is a service er-ror,” Wise said. “It happens, some nights you miss free throws.”
Auburn (11-6, 3-2 SEC) drew 
first blood in the opening moment of the match, building a 15-10 lead. 
But the Gators fought back, 
eventually taking the first set 25-23. 
The second set, a 25-21 Florida 
victory, saw 12 tie scores and six 
lead changes between the teams. 
Much like in the first set, Au-
burn raced out to an early lead to 
begin the third with a 13-7 advan-
tage. 
However, Florida was not 
about to give in easily. 
A blistering 18-5 run crushed 
any hope of an Auburn comeback and sealed the win for the Gators, 
25-18. 
“It’s never fun going down in a 
set, but I think it just shows how 
hard we have been working at do-
ing that, by our ability, especially in that third set to come back,” senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino said. 
“The more you see us doing 
that, the more that we’re having confidence in ourselves, and we fought back so hard in that third 
set. 
On an off day for middle block-
er Rhamat Alhassan, the rest of 
the team picked up the slack. 
Junior right side hitter Alex Holston led all players with 12 kills on a .500 hitting percentage. 
Sophomore outside hitter Carli 
Snyder contributed eight kills while hitting .667. 
After a series of tightly con-
tested five-set matches earlier this season, the Gators’ mental tough-ness has only grown stronger and 
provided them with the resolve to 
grind it out in tough situations. 
“At the end of the third, I felt 
that our team just put it into an-
other gear,” Wise said. With Sunday’s victory, Florida 
improved to 5-1 at home on the season. 
Next, the Gators will head to 
Tennessee to face the Volunteers 
on Wednesday at 6 p.m. on ES-
PNU.
Florida sweeps Auburn to cap off perfect home weekendAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Savannah Jordan takes a shot during Florida’s 2-1 win against LSU on 
Sunday at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF outside hitter Carli Snyder swings for a kill attempt during Florida’s 3-0 win over Auburn in the O’Connell Center on Sunday. Synder finished the match with eight kills and a career-high .667 hitting percentage.
“Our best goals are the ones that come 
when multiple people touch the ball.”
Betsy Middleton
UF soccer juniorBy Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
The first full week of practice for 
the men’s basketball team under 
Mike White is in the books.
While the new head coach has a 
plan to implement a new style of of-
fense, his first job is to evaluate what 
he has on a roster made up of eight players who have yet to play a game for Florida. 
The team is also still getting com-
fortable playing and communicating with each other.
“I couldn’t be much more pleased 
than I am, really, from our mental 
and physical standpoint,” White 
said. “Pleased with the way that our guys have come to work and we’ve gotten better.”
White said it is taking some time 
to introduce his new system and fa-miliarize the players with new con-cepts on offense and defense. 
He added, though, that some 
things are the same from Billy Dono-van’s previous system, which has made the process less challenging.
“It’s definitely been an adjust-
ment,” White said. “We’ve been able to keep a lot of the same things in place when that becomes an ad-vantage for our guys to expedite the process, the transition.”
For many of the new faces on 
this team, however, this is all new to them. They are still working on learning how each other plays and getting comfortable playing along-side each other on the court. 
Justin Leon, a junior college 
transfer, said the team’s communica-tion has noticeably improved in the early going.
“It’s getting a lot better. From the 
start, communication, that’s some-thing that we really needed to im-prove,” Leon said. 
“As time goes by, it’s getting a 
lot better because we watch film on practices from Summer and it’s kind of dead, nobody ever talks, and we compare to now and it’s a lot more vocal.”
Along with player communica-
tion, White wants to see good shoot-ing in practice. So far, UF's first-year coach likes the effort that he has got-
ten out of his guards. 
He said redshirt freshman Bran-
done Francis-Ramirez has shot the 
ball the best so far in practice and sophomore Chris Chiozza has also impressed. 
Last season, Florida’s guards shot 
a combined 38.4 percent from the field and 33.2 percent from beyond 
the three-point line. 
As a team, the Gators hit 43.4 
percent from the field and 32.3 per-
cent from three. White knows those numbers have to increase for UF to be successful this year.
“We’ve got to shoot a higher per-
centage from the three-point line,” White said. “We’ve shot it at a de-
cent clip here in practice this early. 
"It’s got to go up and it’s got to go up across the board, and we’ve got to find at some point here in the next 
couple months, who our best shoot-
ers are in games.”
The shooting consistency that 
players like Francis-Ramirez and Chiozza have displayed so far gives White confidence that his players 
have the talent to accomplish his 
goals on the court. He also knows, however, that it’s still very early and that the team needs to maintain its efforts going forward beyond the first week of practice.
“That’s probably a theme 
throughout our entire roster right now,” White said, “we’re very ca-pable.”MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF guard Brandone Francis-Ramirez shoots during the Gators Madness three-point shooting contest 
on Oct. 2 in the O'Connell Center.
•   •   •
With Missouri trailing Florida 14-3 mid-
way through the third quarter on Saturday, 
freshman quarterback Drew Lock was eye-ing his chance to make a big play.
The Tigers had gone three-and-out on 
their last four drives, and their offense be-came stagnant after making a field goal on their opening drive.
Facing a third and 10 from his own 
36 and needing some sort of spark, Lock dropped back, looked to his left and fired a dart to receiver Jason Reese.
But UF cornerback Jalen Tabor was 
locked in on the play, intercepting the pass 
and returning it 40 yards for a touchdown, 
his second of the season.
“Coach Mac preaches situational foot-
ball,” the sophomore said. “The game of football is based on all situations. You see on third down, the money down, that’s the down we got to get off the field.”
And Florida has done so by creating 
chaos and big plays on its most important 
down.
Ten of Florida’s 21 sacks and three of 
its seven interceptions — including both of 
Tabor’s pick-sixes — have come on third downs.
Quarterbacks are completing just 46.9 
percent of their third-down passes against Florida’s secondary and averaging just 4.7 yards per pass.
“We’ve got to make sure we make teams 
uncomfortable on third down,” linebacker Jarrad Davis said.
•   •   •With six games under its belt, Florida’s 
defense has shown it has what it takes to win.
It steps up when needed and has no 
problem creating scoring opportunities of 
its own.
“Sometimes they lose focus on the prize, 
the prize being what we do on Saturdays, 
and I haven’t seen that lately,” McElwain said.
The road doesn’t get any easier, with the Gators traveling to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, this weekend for a top-10 matchup against LSU.
But McElwain has seen enough from his 
defense.
When the money down comes up, he 
knows they’re ready to play.
“They’re tuned in, they’re locked in, 
they’re challenging each other, they’re chal-lenging the offense,” he said. “It’s fun to watch.”SIDEBAR,  from pg13Ten of UF's 21 sacks have come on third down
AP Photo
Florida defenseive back Jalen T abor, left, celebrates with teammates after he returned 
an interception for a touchdown in UF's 21-3 win against Missouri on Saturday.
BASKETBALL
UF players progress in first week of practice under White
In just five games, the sophomore has 
1,022 rushing yards. You read that correctly 
— five games.
To put that in perspective, Florida has 
had eight 1,000-yard rushers in school his-
tory, and just one in the last decade — Mike 
Gillislee in 2012.
Fournette has 12 touchdowns and is av-
eraging a whopping 8.6 yards per carry. He had a season-low rushing total of 158 yards and one touchdown on Saturday against South Carolina, and that was only because the LSU coaching staff decided to rest him for most of the fourth quarter with the game 
out of hand.
To make matters even scarier for Florida, 
if Fournette happens to miss the team bus 
prior to kickoff, freshman Derrius Guice is averaging 9.1 yards per carry and out-rushed Fournette against the Gamecocks, running for 161 yards and a touchdown on 16 carries.
And while the passing game has been the 
Tigers’ weakness this season — seemingly 
just like every other season — quarterback 
Brandon Harris had one of the best games of his career against South Carolina, throwing for a career-high 228 yards and two touch-downs on 18-of-28 passing.
So despite the assertions from Florida’s 
defenders that they can win if given the slim-mest of leads, a slim lead won’t last long against LSU.
And getting that lead won’t come easy in 
the first place against the Tigers’ defense, a unit that ranks 14th in the nation in total de-fense and will be feeding off the home crowd in Death Valley.
If Florida comes out with another conser-
vative, lackluster performance on offense, this breed of Tigers will have a feeding fren-zy on Saturday, and that new top-10 ranking 
won’t last long.COLUMN,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015
Florida’s victory left Tigers’ fans 
disappointed, but enthralled UF’s 
home crowd more than 1,000 miles away in Gainesville.
“We have the talent to go as far 
as we want to go,” sophomore cor-nerback Jalen Tabor said. 
“We feel like if our offense puts 
up at least 14 points, it’s going to be 
hard to beat us because we’re going 
to buckle down.”
Florida wanted vengeance, but 
that wasn’t the focus throughout the week.
McElwain said the seeds of vic-
tory were sown on Monday in prac-tice, with the team going through business as usual.
“If we don’t practice well on 
Monday or if we don’t stay focused 
on Tuesday or pay attention to the 
details on Wednesday and so on and so forth, Saturday you’re going to lose,” McElwain said. 
“We could be as good as we want 
to be, but we’ve got to be good on Monday in order for it to happen.”
The ﬁ  rst-year UF coach became 
just the third Gators coach to win his 
ﬁ  rst six games as the head football 
coach. 
The other two are Galen Hall in 
1984 (10 straight) and Charles Bach-man (eight straight) in 1928, a stag-gering accomplishment that high-lights just how tough it is to put a mark on a program in the inaugural season.Now, the Gators are ranked 
among the best of the best and are 
expected to play like such no matter 
what adversity or tests they face.
And no test will be tougher than 
what awaits No. 8 Florida on Satur-day when UF travels to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to take on No. 6 LSU in a 7 p.m. showdown in Death Valley.
After giving up 130 yards on 22 
carries to Missouri’s running backs, the Gators will need to buckle down and head into practice focused on stopping Leonard Fournette, LSU’s workhorse in the backﬁ  eld and pre-sumably the frontrunner to win the 
Heisman Trophy.
“He’s a grown man,” Taylor said 
of Fournette. “I give the guy all his 
credit man, he’s one of the elite backs in the SEC and it’s gonna be fun playing against each other. I’m looking forward to it.”
While Fournette has the hype, 
Taylor has proven to be a formidable option in the backﬁ  eld in his own right. 
After recording just six touch-
downs all of last season, the junior from Belle Glade already has seven in the ﬁ  rst six games of the season.
If Florida hopes to continue its 
undefeated streak and down LSU, it will come on the heels of the de-fense. 
The Gators, outside of their 
38-point performance against Ole Miss and 61-point showing in the season opener against New Mexico State, haven’t displayed an offense capable of moving the ball for four 
consecutive quarters.
As Tabor’s interception demon-
strated, Florida’s offense just needs 
to score enough points to stay in front and let the defense take care of the rest.
For now, Florida can relish in the 
fact that the team has won six games and it became bowl eligible — a feat 
last season’s team didn’t accomplish 
until Nov. 22 against Eastern Ken-tucky.
“They’re really understanding 
what it takes every single day,” McElwain said of the team’s progres-sion. “Look, this next game is huge. … (LSU’s) got as good a player as anybody in the country that we’re 
going to play next week. 
“I’m sure they’re just ready to 
steamroll us.”FOOTBALL,  from pg 1McElwain is just third Gators coach to win his irst six games
AP Photo
Florida running back Kelvin T aylor scores a touchdown during the ﬁ  rst half of UF’s 21-3 win against 
Missouri on Saturday in Columbia, Missouri. 
