We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 52 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
Scouting the Commodores
A Q&A with the Vanderbilt Hustler’s 
sports editor, pg. 16
Victoria’s Secret PINK comes to UF
Students can win bras and underwear, pg. 5
Men arrested for loitering
They had drugs and possible tools for forgery, pg. 9Every Wich Way
Check out the photo story celebrating  national sandwich day, pg. 8
SHE WENT TO UF IN 1998.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The feeling was familiar for Abby Wam-
bach.
As she took center stage Tuesday night, the 
former Gator soccer star stared into a crowd of 
about 1,000 fans, many wearing her name on 
their backs as they stood and cheered.
Hosted by the Accent Speaker’s Bureau, 
Wambach was interviewed by Ted Spiker, 
chair of the UF College of Journalism and Com-munications. She was paid $20,000.
Wambach, the all-time leading goal scorer 
in UF history and a two-time Olympic gold medalist with the U.S. women’s national soc-cer team, spoke about being a leader on and off the pitch.
“The reality is you can be a leader in any 
moment in any given day,” she said. “All you have to do is believe in yourself and have some conviction and passion about what you do.”
Although it was the place she would win 
a national championship during her freshman year and spend the next three prepping for a professional career in soccer, UF wasn’t on Wambach’s radar when she was a high-school graduate on the hunt for a university to attend.
She had her sights set on the University of 
California, Los Angeles and three other schools when her mother talked her into visiting Gainesville.
“When I got to college and came here, 
something really changed and clicked inside my brain about the game,” Wambach said. “My goal was to win a national champion-Abby Wambach speaks leadership, legacy at UF
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By T aylor Maloney
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville company CEOs 
swapped their business suits for jeans at the third “hobnob job fair” Tuesday night.
Local technology companies, 
like 352 Inc. and Inﬁ  nite Energy, scouted for student interns and em-ployees. They networked at Inﬁ  nity Hall with UF students studying sci-ence, technology, engineering, arts, math and creative studies.
“We want the students to 
know there’s an option to stay here (in Gainesville),” said Susan 
Davenport, CEO and president of 
Gainesville Area Chamber of Com-merce.Hobnob means to mix with oth-
ers informally, which makes this career fair different than others stu-dents attend, Davenport said. The slash mark before the name repre-sents the beginning of a computer code.
The job fair is put on by the 
Gainesville Area Chamber of Com-merce, the Gainesville Technology Council and CareerSource North Central Florida. About 100 students and 30 businesses attended the event.
There is no charge for compa-
nies to table at the event, and it’s 
free for students.
James Safko, a UF digital arts 
and sciences sophomore, said he 
decided to go to the event after re-ceiving an email. He wants a career in technology and arts.
“I think (a) formal, Career 
Showcase-type event is intimidat-ing,” the 20-year-old said.
UF political science freshman 
Samantha Sosa attended the event and said she believes casual career fairs may become more popular in the future.
“I don’t have to dress up or any-
thing,” the 18-year-old said. “I’m in 
my workout clothes.”  Tech  career fair attracts students
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Gainesville’s City Commission 
told Student Government members 
it’s their responsibility to make sure student voices are heard.
The discussion between the two 
was part of the second annual joint meeting between the commission and SG. They discussed transporta-tion, the Gainesville experience and student safety. 
Sen. Kylie Werk (Impact, District 
A) asked about the city expanding bike lanes and crosswalks.Mayor Ed Braddy said the city 
has added bike lanes and tries to 
incorporate bike lanes in new con-
struction projects.
“We don’t have a one-size-ﬁ  ts-all 
approach,” Braddy said.
City legislation, which proposed 
raising the entrance age to 21 for bars after 9 p.m., was also discussed. They decided to stop discussing the bill until students were back from 
summer, Braddy said. 
“Whatever we do, we need to 
make sure all stakeholders are at the 
table,” he said.
But Commissioner Charles Gos-SG discusses city issues 
with city commissionersSEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4
SEE SG, PAGE 4Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
UF College of Journalism and Communications department chair T ed Spiker (left) interviews former UF soccer and U.S. women’s nation-
al soccer team player Abby Wambach on Tuesday during an Accent Speaker’s Bureau event at the Philips Center for the Performing Arts. During the hourlong talk, Wambach discussed her playing career, how she ultimately decided on playing for UF and her retirement plans.
“W e want the students to 
know there’s an option to 
stay here (in Gainesville).” 
Susan Davenport
CEO and president of 
Gainesville Area 
Chamber of CommerceIt was an informal eventSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub -
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al -
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As -
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Photography exhibit
PhotoUF 2015 is a juried group 
photography exhibit featuring 
photographs taken by UF stu -
dents, faculty, staff and alumni. 
Share with others what the UF 
community looks like by submit -
ting images of student life, activi -
ties and UF spirit.  Submit your 
images through our website at 
union.ufl.edu/photouf. Selected 
images will be on display in the 
Reitz Union during the spring of 
2016.  
Tango Class
Join the UF Argentine Tango Club 
for free tango classes at all levels 
including first-timers. Classes will 
take place today in the common 
room at Corry Village. The begin -
ner lesson will begin at 8 p.m. 
followed by an intermediate/ad -
vanced lesson at 9 p.m. Be sure 
to dress comfortably. No special 
shoes are necessary — even a pair 
of thick socks works fine. If you 
have any questions, please visit 
facebook.com/groups/uftango/.
 RecSports 3-on-3 Soccer 
Tournament
Make sure to register for the 3-on-3 soccer tournament through 
RecSports. Registration closes 
today at noon. The tournament 
will take place Sunday through 
Nov. 15 for both the men’s and 
women’s league. For more infor -
mation and how to register, visit: 
recsports.ufl.edu/events/3-on-
3-soccer-tournament.
New theatre troupe
The Center for Arts in Medicine, 
Dean of Students and Sexual 
Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence 
Education seek culturally diverse 
individuals interested in social 
justice for a new theatre troupe 
that uses the power of the arts to 
prevent interpersonal violence.  
Become part of the movement to 
eliminate stigma, build awareness 
and educate your peers.  We pro -
vide training and opportunities; 
you provide passion, talent, en -
ergy and drive.  No prior theatre 
experience is required.  Contact 
Jeffrey Pufahl (jeffpuf@ufl.edu). 
This club will meet Tuesdays in 
the Nadine McGuire Theatre and 
Dance Pavilion in Studio G15 
starting Nov. 17 from 5 p.m. to 7 
p.m. 
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Triwizard Tournament
Reitz Union Board Entertainment will be hosting our annual "Harry 
Potter" event Tuesday starting 
at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom. Activities will 
include entering your name in 
the Goblet of Fire to battling drag -
ons, saving your loved one from 
the Black Lake and navigating 
the life-size maze to compete for 
the Triwizard Cup. You can also 
create your own crafts, and but -
terbeer will also be served. Check 
out #TriwizardTrivia for new 
Harry Potter trivia every Tuesday. 
Tweet us with the correct answer 
to win prizes. Visit us @UF_RUB 
on Twitter for more info.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org. Please 
submit the event before 5 p.m., 
and keep it to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted submis -
sions may not appear in the pa -
per. Press releases will not appear 
in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 52
HIGH  90° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Alyssa Fisher, afisher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Ariana Figueroa, afigueroa@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online  Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org    
 Metro Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor  Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor   Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org    
 Editorial Board  Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor  Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson @alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs  Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors  T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives  T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Look for me during the
HOMECOMING PARADE!
Please be sure to recycle
your newspaper after the parade
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Neil Skripic, left, 24, and Bolf Ramshield, 28, discuss the popula-
tion of Syria to answer a ﬁ  nal tiebreaker trivia question at Mother’s Pub and Grill on Tuesday. The two UF law students were part of the team “Putin Never Pulls Out. ”
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
From left: Justin Portas, Leigh Sullivan, Phil Fleming, Mike Mansingh and Chynna Masteller celebrate winning ﬁ  rst place at trivia night at Mother’s Pub and Grill. Mansingh said the team, “Dirty Old Men, ” competes at the pub “all the time. ”
TUESDAY NIGHT TRIVIA4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
ship.”
In 1998, when Wambach hoisted 
the national championship trophy 
as a member of the UF soccer team, Matt Nobles was still a student.
On Tuesday, Nobles, who gradu-
ated in 2008, wore a white No. 20 Wambach jersey. Although Wam-
bach retired from soccer, he said she 
has the potential to achieve much more off the field.
“There’s even greater things 
ahead for her,” he said. “I think she transcends athletics.”
UF criminology and law junior 
Melanie Mason was watching when Wambach was in the midst of her 
15-year career as a professional soc-
cer player. 
When Wambach helped the U.S. 
win the World Cup last summer, Ma-son was celebrating alongside her.
The feeling was familiar for 
Wambach on Tuesday night.
Later, the cheers may fade and 
the jerseys may bear different names.
But Wambach will always have a 
home at UF.
“You have no idea how many stadiums I’ve been in that there’s a Gator flag waving, that somebody is doing the Gator Chomp,” she said. “I do still bleed orange and blue.”Wambach said she is still a Gator fan through and throughDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
RENT ROCK ’N’ ROLL 
T ony Aron, a 56-year-old Elvis For Rent, sways his hips on Tuesday in a $2,400 replica of Elvis Presley’s 
1973 Aloha suit on the corner of West University Avenue and Northwest 13th Street. Aron said he usually dresses up as Elvis to raise money for charity organizations like the American Cancer Society.
ton said students need to help the 
city commission find a solution to underage students drinking.
“If we can’t come up with a solu-
tion that works for you guys, why 
don’t you guys come up with a solu-
tion that works for you?” he asked. 
Commissioner Harvey Budd said 
he thinks UF’s Honor Court should handle the consequences of under-age drinking rather than the city.
Sen. Amanda Nelson (Access, 
Liberal Arts) said she felt it was hard to get answers from the commission 
on how students could help.
“We want to help you, but it 
seems like every single question is 
‘y’all go do that’ or ‘that’s not our responsibility,’” she said.
Concealed carry of weapons on 
UF’s campus was another safety concern discussed. Recent legis-lation for concealed firearms on campus has been making its way through committees in the state leg-islature.
Braddy said regardless of his per-
sonal opinions, he would support UF in its stance on the legislation.
Gainesville Regional Utilities 
rates, which are among the highest 
in the state, and how they affect stu-
dents were discussed.
Utility rates have been a hot topic 
recently. Many blame the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center biomass plant, which went online in 2013, 
for causing such high rates — an 
allegation disputed among current and former city officials. 
Budd said the biomass plant nev-
er should have been approved.
“We are bleeding money, and it 
was a bad decision that was made,” he said. 
The commission urged UF stu-
dents to write to commissioners and the mayor about utility rates.
“All problems are simple once a 
solution is done,” Goston said. “If we don’t call you, call us.”SG,  from pg1Concealed carry discussed
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Former UF soccer and U.S. women’s national soccer team player Abby Wambach Gator Chomps as she 
walks on stage at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday for an event hosted by Accent Speaker’s Bureau. Wambach played at UF from 1998 to 2001 and has played for the U.S. Women’s National T eam since graduating. Wambach announced her retirement from soccer on Oct. 27.
ACCENT,  from pg1CAMPUS
By Sara Perlman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can educate themselves about both sides of an in-
ternational conflict today.
J Street UF, a pro-Israeli peace organization, is hosting an 
open discussion on the Plaza of the Americas at 5 p.m. 
The talk will focus on the recent outbreak of violence be-
tween Israelis and Palestinians. The group is holding the event 
to memorialize Yitzhak Rabin, the prime minster of Israel in the 1970s, said Hannah Kaufman, co-president of J Street UF. This month marks the 20th anniversary of his murder. Rabin promoted peace and negotiations during his terms.
The forum is meant to provide a space for peaceful conver-
sation, Kaufman said.
College students can have a significant impact on U.S. poli-
cies, said UF sociology professor Tamir Sorek, who focuses on the culture of Arab-Palestinian citizens of Israel. He thinks students should care about the conflict and become educated about both sides.
UF finance senior Ariela Steinberg said she is looking for-
ward to the discussion.
Steinberg, 22, said her parents lived in Israel, and she is pro-
Israeli in terms of the conflict. However, she is going to the event to learn from people who are pro-Palestinian, who will share their points of view.
“(As) with any long-lasting political issue, it is because peo-
ple grew up demonizing the other side,” Steinberg said. “If you grow up knowing it can be peaceful, the next 50 years could be different.”
Jonathan Munoz, a UF international studies junior, will at-
tend the event because he said he doesn’t know a lot about the conflict. 
“I think the discussion will be two-sided and factual,” the 
20-year-old said. “College students are the future of this nation, and we should educate ourselves on international issues.”UF group invites students to discuss Israeli-Palestinian conflict
“All problems are simple once 
a solution is done. If we don’t 
call you, call us.”
Charles Goston
Commissioner
More about Wambach
• When Wambach needs a break 
from her regular diet, she said she makes a trip to Chipotle. Her order? A burrito bowl with white rice, both types of beans, double chicken, mild 
salsa, a scoop of hot salsa, a little 
bit of sour cream, a lot of cheese, guacamole on the side, chips to dip into the bowl and a soda. And Wam-bach doesn’t have to worry about the price. She has a special card that allows her to have one free burrito every day.
• During either her sophomore or 
junior year at UF, Wambach said she was struggling in one of her classes. Her professor, whom she did not name, brought her to his office and told her “Abby, you’re literally not going to be able to do anything with women’s soccer.” Wambach had a simple response to that Tuesday: “I hope you’re in the crowd.”WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
This weekend, Homecoming producers hope 
to weave a new tradition in with Gator fans’ old 
favorites.
On Friday, the staff will unveil the first Home-
coming festival on the Plaza of the Americas. 
The event is designed to entertain students 
and alumni beginning at 10 a.m., said Santiago 
Ramirez, associate producer of communications 
for Gator Growl.
“We’re all the footprints of the Swamp,” he 
said.
Both new and returning  SunTrust Gator Gallop 
runners will end the annual Homecoming 5K run at the festival on the Plaza this year. 
“We wanted something else — something more 
inclusive,” Ramirez said.
The festival will feature carnival games, a 
bounce house and a disc jockey.
Ramirez, 21,  said the festival will resemble a 
carnival more than a tailgate, and alcohol will not be served.  “We’re really trying to create a family-friendly 
environment,” he said.
Ramirez said local businesses and Dance Mara-
thon will set up booths. They will donate $500 
in cash or give the equivalent in merchandise to 
go toward Gator Gallop prizes and carnival-game winners.
Nicole Corder, a UF biology freshman, said she 
is excited to participate in Friday’s festivities. 
She’ll stop by the Plaza before marching with 
UF Best Buddies in the parade at noon.
“I figured that it’s just something everyone 
should do once,” the 18-year-old said.  
Ramirez said he hopes the event will encourage 
students to leave a legacy at UF.
“It’s honestly all about the Gators,” he said.New Homecoming festival on Plaza
STUDENTS CAN WIN BRAS 
AND UNDERWEAR.
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
Flavet Field will be decked out 
in orange, blue and pink Friday eve-
ning.
For the first time, Victoria’s Secret 
PINK will come to UF as part of its 
campus tour. Students can win bras 
and panties from the PINK tour bus from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. during Gator 
Growl. Although PINK has brought 
free merchandise to UF in the past, it has never participated in the campus tour.
A UF PINK campus representa-
tive Melisa Figueroa, 21, said UF was one of 10 colleges chosen for the tour. 
“We are doing this (PINK event at 
UF) because we are one of the top-selling schools for its collegiate col-lection,” said Figueroa, a UF public relations senior.
Along with hosting games and 
raffles, the tour bus will feature a UF-themed pop-up shop, a UF cam-pus representative Alexa Tsongranis, 22, said.
But UF political science and crim-
inology and law junior Connie Choe said Victoria’s Secret can promote unrealistic ideals.
“You want to support a brand 
that promotes body image and self-love,” the 21-year-old said.
This semester, the company post-
ed a photo that looked as if the mod-el’s butt cheek was edited out. De-spite the recent controversy, though, Choe said she still plans on attending the event.  
UF music senior Erica Scaglione 
said she also feels discouraged from shopping at Victoria’s Secret, but she still plans on attending the event, too.
“I’m excited to see what’s going 
to happen,” the 22-year-old said. Victoria’s Secret PINK 
comes to Gator Growl
The Associated Press
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — 
Nearly 11,000 rape kits have not 
been tested in Florida, according to statistics released by the state Thurs-day, mirroring backlogs at law en-
forcement agencies nationwide be-
cause of a lack of funding.
In a spreadsheet released on its 
website, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement showed 10,900 kits from 262 agencies around the state have not been tested. Seven law enforcement agencies did not report data.
The agency said the data is pre-
liminary, and the agencies might up-date the information.
Rape kit testing backlogs have 
been an issue across the U.S. In 
September, federal officials said an 
estimated 70,000 rape kits sitting in laboratories and evidence-collection rooms across the country will be tested with a combined $79 million in federal and New York City funds designed to cut the backlog of un-tested DNA evidence in 27 states.
The FDLE is conducting a more-
than-$300,000 study on the number of untested kits and will present the findings to the Legislature in Janu-ary. Part of the quandary is the cost 
of processing. Attorney General Pam 
Bondi has called for more funding in the next state budget to process the kits, which cost about $800 to $1,000 per kit for testing.The ongoing kit survey was the 
subject of a hearing in Tallahassee on Tuesday, where legislators heard from the FDLE about the results so far. After hearing from agency offi-cials as well as some local law en-forcement officials, several senators said many of the reasons they heard 
about the lack of testing were “rea-
sonable.”
Some of the reasons cited were 
that sometimes the suspect in the crime was already in custody, or lo-cal prosecutors had decided against pressing charges. Another reason was some victims didn’t want to re-port the incident to law enforcement. One FDLE official did say attitudes about sexual assault have changed over the last three decades.
“I don’t think there’s evidence 
that’s there been a callous attitude with law enforcement processing these in a timely manner,” said Sen. 
Joe Negron.
Florida data shows 10,900 sexual assault kits still untested
CAMPUS
“W e wanted something else — something more 
inclusive.” 
Santiago Ramirez
Associate producer of 
communications for Gator Growl
STANDING WITH PALESTINE
ABOVE:
Natalia Arteaga, a 21-year-old UF public relations junior, records a video of violinist Eli 
Tragash during The Jam: Gainesville’s Palestine event on Tuesday night. UF Students for Justice in Palestine held the event to express solidarity with Palestine.
LEFT:
Mariam Fawaz, a 20-year-old UF linguistics junior, reads her poems “Who Are You?” and “Deprivation” at The Jam: Gainesville on Tuesday. “There was a lot of pain and judgement for my family, ” she said. “The Iraq we knew isn’t the same anymore and never will be. ”
Photos by Royce Abela / Alligator The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Smathers Library mural shows UF history
History and art combine in a recent cam-
paign by the Smathers Libraries to re-store one of UF’s largest wall murals.
Once almost forgotten and collect-
ing dust, the mural titled “A History 
of Learning in Florida” now hangs on the wall above the entrance to the Smathers Library Grand Reading Room in Library East.
Last week, the mural got a makeover. After 
almost 60 years of relative obscurity, the UF li-brary staff hired a team of professionals from ArtCare Mia-Nyc, an internationally recognized art-conser-vation business, to restore the mural (painted in 1953 by art professor Hollis Holbrook) to its former glory.
On Oct. 22, I ventured into the peaceful halls of Library 
East to watch a presentation given by the conservationists on their work restoring the mural.
Library East is older than Marston and far quieter than 
Library West. It has an air of majesty to it. The building is included on the National Register of Historic Places. Walk-ing under the high wooden archways of the Grand Reading Room, it’s easy to imagine students from the 1900s hunched over textbooks on the tables lined sturdily down the room.
Students often overlook Library East. I know people who 
have no idea it exists. If you’ve been needing an excuse to ﬁ  nd a UF treasure, I’d look no further than the Grand Read-ing Room. Like a portal to the past, the room has the air of pretentious learning and long-held tradition that, in small doses, can make a college campus somehow seem special. At the very least, it’s far more effective than a stream of Star-bucks coffee cups and late-night cram sessions.
The ideal of the American university is different than it 
used to be. Extreme exclusivity and old-money connections are happily becoming more obsolete, at least for schools not considered Ivy Leagues. These ideas are being replaced with diversity and expansion, and buildings and programs at col-leges seem to reﬂ  ect that. I’m happy our education system isn’t one where only white men from rich families can take part, but I’m also happy the historical places at UF — dorms such as Murphree and Thomas Halls, built in the 1900s, and buildings like Bryan Hall and Smathers Library — still exist. Their longevity is an honorable tes-tament to UF’s history.
The mural, sprawling boldly across the wall 
above the entry to the reading room, is one such 
relic. “A History of Learning in Florida” depicts 
learning in Florida from the introduction of ma-chinery to the development of education in mut-ed colors of red, orange and brown. However, it shows more than the progression of learning —  it shows the progression of the university. 
Conservationists worked on the mural from Oct. 19 to 23 and found many ﬂ  ashbacks to the past when clearing away grime and repairing cracks.
The conservationists found tiny hairs from Holbrook’s 
paintbrushes caught in the painting, and they could also tell when the Student Body was allowed to smoke in the reading room due to leftover damage from cigarette smoke. UF historian Carl Van Ness (I didn’t even know we had a designated historian — what a cool job) talked about the paint for the mural, which was made out of egg yolks. Fun fact: The whites of the eggs were baked into pastries for stu-dents studying in the library at the time. I think Library West 
should consider this option if people are thinking about cre-
ating their own mural anytime soon.
Reproductions of the original sketches for the mural, 
which are held by the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, are currently on display in the reading room, as well as dusty, black-and-white photos of campus from the 1950s.
The mural in Smathers Library is a monument to the 
hoity-toity atmosphere leaking from the building, from the musty bookshelves to the marble staircase. Its paint and his-
tory are the integrity and longevity UF strives to maintain.
I recommend everyone check out the library when they 
can, or perhaps when the basement of Marston just gets too 
crowded, and admire the mural’s stiff-upper-lip, doggedly proud, newly restored glory.
Sally Grieder is a UF English and public relations junior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.Maybe neither 
religion nor atheism 
is all that bad
According to a report released by the Pew Research Cen-ter on Tuesday, Americans are becoming less religious. An NPR report summarizing the ﬁ  ndings included tidbits like “The share of Americans who say they are ‘abso-lutely certain’ that God exists has dropped 8 percentage 
points, from 71 percent to 63 percent, since 2007,” and “The percentage of adults who describe themselves as ‘religiously af-ﬁ  liated’ has shrunk 6 points since 2007, from 83 percent to 77 percent.” We could go on, but you get the idea.
As the authors of the study and NPR state, the study — which 
was conducted from a sample size of more than 35,000 U.S. adults — conﬁ  rms what our elders have long suspected and we have long known: Younger people are becoming considerably less pious. With that said, those who do identify as religious are 
becoming even more so, with “a growing share of the ‘religiously 
afﬁ  liated’… regularly [reading] scripture, [participating] in prayer groups and [sharing] their faith with others.” Both NPR and the Pew report suggest the increase in individual religious fervor, met by the ever-increasing societal apathy toward religion, has resulted in social polarization.
It is no secret that among certain demographics of millennials, 
religion isn’t exactly considered a “cool,” “hip” or even “dope” practice to take part in. For those millennials who do actively 
practice their faiths, they often keep it “low key,” preferring to 
keep their love for Yahweh/Jesus/Allah/religious ﬁ  gure of choice to themselves.
It will come as a shock to exactly no one when we say religion 
has led to some pretty horriﬁ  c events throughout history. Extrem-ism and fanaticism come in all shapes, sizes and ideologies, and there is no need to single out any particular one for being the sole catalyst for any particularly awful event.
With that said, there is a trend among millennials who identify 
as atheist to paint religion in broad strokes. For many, religion provides a fundamental and positive understanding of morals and ethics, not to mention a sense of community. Humans are social creatures, and if we bond with one another over our shared desire to do good (without being hateful), that ought to be seen as a net positive. For many, religion also provides a rich heritage of culture and traditions, both aspects of life that can be enjoyed with or without an unwavering conﬁ  dence in an all-powerful de-ity: It is no mistake that Wikipedia has an entire page titled “List 
of Jewish atheists and agnostics.”
On the ﬂ  ip side, there are those who would contend a soci-
ety lacking in religion is a society lacking in morals. For those 
who believe that, we offer the following: It probably says more about you than it does religion if you truly think people cannot be “good” without the threat of eternal damnation.
It is not an objectively bad thing if young Americans are be-
coming less religious. As The Who sang in 1965, “The Kids Are Alright.” 
As we wrote in Monday’s editorial, what isn’t all right is re-
ducing those we don’t see eye to eye with to one-dimensional caricatures. Just as not all atheists are Christian-hating peddlers of sin and smut, not all Christians (to name an example) are re-grettably homophobic human beings.
More than ever, Americans tend to dismiss and disregard 
anyone who has views contrary to their own, especially when it comes to religion and politics. Well, if our understanding of the man as a generous, forgiving soul is true, maybe we could all af-
ford to ask: What would Jesus do?
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
“HOSTESS: …she speaks English perfect-
ly!
NEPOMMUCK: Too perfectly. Can 
you shew me any English woman who speaks English as it should be spoken? 
Only foreigners who have been taught to speak it speak it well.” — George Bernard Shaw, Pygmalion
Language, at the most fundamental level, is a sys-
tem of signals capable of conveying meaning. Human language embodies the same process in that, per rather complex articulatory and auditory/visual mechanisms, we are capable of producing and interpreting signals all the while conveying meaning and accomplishing various com-municative tasks. The accepted view within linguistics is that 
Language stems from (wo)man’s mental faculties. (For those 
concerned about grammar, the capital letter signiﬁ  es a universal phenomenon, as opposed to a speciﬁ  c language, such as Swahili.) Noam Chomsky, the father of modern linguistics, maintains that the very ability to learn language is hard-wired into the human brain, which he terms Universal Grammar.
Just as with the word Language, there too exists a distinction 
between Grammar and grammar, in which the former references the universal human ability to produce Language, whereas the lat-
ter simply refers to the rules and formalism (and often stylistics) 
of a given language. The contrasts identiﬁ  ed hitherto, namely be-tween Language and language and Grammar and grammar, are absolutely essential to address a very pervasive and unfortunate phenomenon: the charge of “ungrammaticality.”
“Don’t say ain’t because it’s poor grammar.” “For someone 
who studies language, you have terrible grammar.” “He speaks like someone who is very educated.” “Never end a sentence with a preposition, it’s not proper.”
These statements, which I am sure we have all encountered in 
some form or another, as well as the excerpt from Pygmalion, all evidence the extent to which our use of a given language is inher-ently social, and as such has distinct personal and political rami-ﬁ  cations. Within Chomsky’s framework, an utterance is deemed grammatical if it stems from Universal Grammar. Hence, if I say “I ain’t got no shoes on” and also “On got shoes ain’t no I”, it is explicitly clear which sentence is grammatical and which is not, as the structures in our brain predisposed to interpret language can process the ﬁ  rst statement, but certainly not the second. Yet, those entrusted with “teaching” us English would grimace at the ﬁ  rst sentence and would likely deem it ungrammatical, which identiﬁ  es the crux of this issue.
Admittedly, the gold standard in education is the 
notion of a “standard language”, and as such linguistic forms that deviate heavily are deemed ungrammatical. In English, as we do not have an ofﬁ  cial regulatory insti-tution as many other languages do, it is absurd to allege the objective existence of “standard English”, though we are plagued by style guides which deal almost exclu-sively with stylistics, not Grammar. Harvard University 
psychologist Steven Pinker has shone light on this recently in his book “The Sense of Style,” in which he dissects many issues of 
grammatical contention, such as split inﬁ  nitives and clauses with 
prepositions at the end, demonstrating that these supposedly sa-cred grammar rules often stem from attempts by bishops and erst-while nobility to force English to behave more like Latin.
 So, even though it can be acknowledged that a written “stan-
dard” is helpful and somewhat effective, one must never forget that Language is not merely a writing system, as the beautifully complex phenomenon of human language cannot be reduced to words on a page and should not be constrained by arbitrary rules, 
which tend mainly to be applied with the most scrutiny to those in 
society with the least prestige.
Our linguistic utterances are an innate part of our humanity in 
that they emanate from within us and reﬂ  ect our authentic self. While literature is certainly an art, we cannot deny that spontane-ous language production is not also virtuous and as such should not be subjected to a stream of rules and constraints that are largely irrelevant to regulating human communication.
Hence I exhort you all to not cling fast to the “grammar” rules 
into which we have been indoctrinated, especially outside of the written standard, whose validity fades in spoken language. Rather, speak however is most natural to you.
Returning to Pygmalion, to answer Neppomuck’s question, any 
Englishwoman (and any woman for that matter) who speaks Eng-lish is speaking English as it “should” be spoken. Speak up!
Jordan MacKenzie is a ﬁ  rst-year linguistics master’s student. 
His column appears on Wednesdays. Grammar ain’t what it seems — don't cling to rulesColumn
We’ve all done it. There was some major pa-
per to write or exam to study for that was left until the last minute. With all the time beforehand to do so, we procrastinate out of laziness, fear or even a mixture of the 
two. Now, a rushed essay or some crammed study-ing may not be such a big deal in the grand scheme of things. However, if we continue to add to a society of lazy individuals waiting to make the world a better place on a day that will never come, we will create — and have already created — very serious issues for society as a whole.
 Solving many major problems can be as easy as 
changing the way we think about the issues affecting 
our future. We could eliminate, or at least attempt to eliminate, apathy toward devising solutions for deeply rooted issues, such as climate change, gun control and 
inequality, if the problems of tomorrow weren’t solved 
tomorrow, but today.
Now, there are two main reasons why many aren’t 
so keen on spending the time necessary to plan for a better future. One is our crippling fear of death.
Another reason is most of us have to ﬁ  gure out to-
day before we can worry about tomorrow. Although some would like to look down on others for only wor-rying about their own world instead of all of humanity, 
it is often overlooked that Americans aren’t just sitting 
at home twiddling their thumbs. 
Honestly, a person struggling to make ends meet to 
put a roof over his or her family’s heads and feed his or her children couldn’t care less about climate change. According to the Associated Press in 2013, four out of ﬁ  ve Americans “struggle with joblessness, near poverty or reliance on welfare for at least parts of their lives.” If only everyone was rich enough to dabble in politics as 
a hobby. And college students may seem to get caught 
up in their own world through classes and activities, but students now can’t be the difference and change they wish to see in the world if they don’t take time to actually graduate.
So, it isn’t as cut and dried as the “Americans are 
just plain lazy” rhetoric espoused by those who lack the capacity to empathize make it seem. But that doesn’t mean there shouldn’t be a change to push politicians 
to focus more on policies of the future. According to 
the Washington Post on Oct. 1, there were 294 mass shootings in 2015 by the end of September, yet Ameri-cans only jump to voice a change in gun reform when a shooter walks into a school or a church. And even then, the opposition to current gun laws draws silence within a matter of days after a tragedy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) included in its 2013 report that Earth will hit a critical temperature where 
global climate patterns will permanently shift by 2036. 
However, polls show every single year the most impor-tant issue for Americans is not the killing of innocent Americans every day, nor the end of the world in 20 years, but rather the economy.
Instead of waiting to the last minute for monumental 
change that will never come, we can be the difference today, starting with small changes. With the 2016 elec-tion right around the corner, we can force candidates to 
talk about gun control and environmental policy along 
with economic policy, but only if the candidates truly believe Americans care about these issues. For the 90 percent of us who don’t live in poverty, we must take time to focus on the issues of tomorrow. 
Many of us may get caught up in our own worlds, 
and sometimes justiﬁ  ably so, but humankind and the future of the world we live in need to be of importance, too.
 Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineering freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.American policy of 
procrastinationColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
Every 
Wich Way 
A sandwich artist prepares a sub for National Sandwich Day at the Subway at 1805 SW 13th St. on Tuesday. The sandwich shop offered buy-one-get-one-free sandwiches with the purchase of a drink from open to close.
Photos by Andrea Cornejo 
Alligator Staff 
LEFT:
Rocki Neal, a basketball coach in Alachua, eats a sandwich at Subway on Tuesday. She said she heard about the buy-one-get-one special from a Subway employee who follows her on Snapchat.
FAR LEFT:
Justin Cangelosi, 20, prepares a grilled cheese sandwich at Cheese Daddy at 16 NW 18th St. on Tuesday. “I actually had to tell people it was National Sandwich Day, ” he said.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
RUN DATE DEADLINEIN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
MONDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 10THTHURSDAY
NOVEMBER 12TH
FRIDAY
NOVEMBER 13TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
WINTER IS COMING 
Michael Verschaeve, 28, co-owner of Blue Star Nursery, labels one of the nursery’s 
50,000 blueberry plants in Hawthorne on Tuesday. “We’re tightening up the plastic around the plants and starting to get ready for the cold weather that’s bound to come, ” he said.
THEY HAD DRUGS 
AND POSSIBLE TOOLS 
FOR FORGERY.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two Georgia 
men early Monday morning after police 
said they had drugs and possible tools for 
forgery.
At about 2:10 a.m. Monday, Torrence 
Miller, 22, and Yumahann Brown, 29, 
parked in a secluded industrial park in the 
1600 block of Northwest 55th Place, ac-
cording to a police report.
An ofﬁ  cer slowly approached the car 
and saw Miller run toward it and get in-side. 
The ofﬁ  cer turned on his lights and the 
car crept forward before stopping, accord-ing to the report.
Police found open mail where the car 
was parked before moving, and a mailbox was open 15 feet away.
An ofﬁ  cer smelled marijuana and searched the car, where he found less than .1 grams of weed and a Gainesville man’s mail, according to the report.
He also found a laptop and a printer in 
a duffel bag, which, ac-cording to the report, are often used with stolen mail to forge checks or documents.
After arresting Mill-
er and Brown, a police car’s camera recorded the men laughing, and 
Brown said, “Once they 
set that bail, I’m out of this motherf****r,” ac-cording to the report.
Police arrested Miller 
and Brown on charges for loitering and prowl-ing. 
Miller also received a 
charge for possession of drug parapherna-lia.
Authorities took the men to the Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press time, they both remain in lieu of $15,000 bonds.Men arrested for loitering 
NATIONAL
The Associated Press
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — 
Jimmy Carter resumed his role 
as Habitat for Humanity’s most-prominent booster Monday, don-ning a white hard hat and a worn 
leather belt stocked with his own 
tools to hammer and saw with other volunteers building a home in Memphis, Tennessee.
“We haven’t cut back on my 
schedule yet,” Carter said. “I know it’s going to come, particu-larly if my cancer progresses, but we don’t yet know what the result will be from the treatments.”
The former president cele-
brated his 91st birthday in Octo-ber and is undergoing treatment for cancer found in his liver and brain. But he was surefooted on 
the construction site as he moved 
from one task to another.
Arriving ahead of schedule, 
Carter installed a hammer, mea-suring tape and thick pencil on his tool belt. Then he helped place pre-framed walls, hammered nails into place and sawed boards into smaller pieces, occasionally shout-ing questions or suggestions to the rest of the crew.
His wife, Rosalynn Carter, 88, 
hammered brackets to secure the walls, pulling the nails from 
her own leather tool belt. “Hard 
work,” she said with a soft laugh.
Carter and the Atlanta-based 
charity have been practically syn-onymous for more than 30 years. His presidential museum even has his work boots and a hammer on display.
Each year since 1984, the cou-
ple has volunteered a week of their time to “Carter work proj-ects,” drawing thousands of vol-unteers. The streak seemed at risk in August when he revealed his 
illness, casting doubt on his abil-
ity to travel to a remote region of Nepal this month.
Ultimately, doctors approved 
the trip, but it was canceled due to concerns about civil unrest in the region, Carter said.
Carter traveled to Memphis 
instead. By late morning, all the walls were framed and volunteers were placing wood planks around the exterior.
Habitat’s CEO Jonathan Reck-
ford said Carter’s attitude hasn’t 
changed since his cancer diagno-
sis.
“He, to me, looks great, sounds 
great,” Reckford said. 
Jimmy Carter says he feels ﬁ  ne, keeps busy despite cancerBrown
Miller
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any read-
er who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The MIND Study is looking for men and women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
ACROSS
1 See-through
kitchen supply
6 Mythical king of
the Huns
10 Kitchen spray
13 Flared dress14 Ancient Greek
theater
15 Land in l’océan16 *Sneaky blow
18 Some kitchen
appliances
19 Did a slow burn20 Passengers in
flight, often
22 Cyberspace
marketplace
23 Snobbish
24 Chopper
27 Mount Hood’s
state
29 Prominent periods
30 Keep the censor
busy
31 The NBA’s Kevin
Love, e.g.
34 Alternative to
dis?
35 Easy mark ... and
a hint to thestarts of theanswers tostarred clues
37 Dressing
ingredient
38 High rails
39 Bassoon cousins
40 Vending machine
buy
41 “Absolutely!”43 Kicked off the
flight
45 Well-protected47 Sweater outlet?48 Island nation
near Sicily
49 Get in the game54 Form 1040 calc.55 *Peanuts57 Nickelodeon
pooch
58 Spine-tingling59 Hawaii or Alaska,
on many a map
60 Number before
quattro
61 Editor’s “Let it
stand”
62 Hoopster
Archibald andrapper DoggDOWN
1 Back talk
2 Homecoming
guest
3 Affluent, in
Andalusia
4 Low socks5 (If) required
6 Together,
musically
7 Watch over
8 Director Jean-__
Godard
9 “Can’t wait to
eat!”
10 *Place for
brooding
11 Watchful12 Embarrassing, as
a situation
14 Nashville
attraction
17 Bring up
21 Great Lakes’ __
Canals
23 10-time All-Pro
linebacker Junior
24 Hand over
25 Taken by mouth
26 *“Walkin’ After
Midnight” singer
27 Young hooter
28 Rules, briefly30 __ gin fizz
32 Trusted underling33 Prince who
inspired Dracula
35 Loser only to a
straight flush
36 Calais cleric40 “The Bartered
Bride” composer
42 Away43 Former U.K.
carrier44 Mischievous boy45 Snazzy-looking46 Ready and willing47 Love-crazy Le
Pew
49 “Absolutely!”
50 Give out
51 Scientific acad.52 Architectural 
S-curve
53 Fishing gear56 Riled (up)
By Kurt Krauss©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/04/1511/04/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 4, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
Office cleaner needed after 5p m,t,th,f and 
sat and sun time varies...Home/apartment cleaner needed somewhere in between 8-5 m-f and wed,sat,sun time varies ....weekly pay and paying 8.25/hour..MUST Have A CAR with valid license and be able to pass a background/drug test...if interested please call 352-214-0868    11-4-5-14
NOW HIRING!Lloyd Clarke Sports is seeking an outstand-ing person to join our staff. Must work 1 day on the weekends and maintain 25-35 hours per week. Apply in person only.1504 NW 13 St. 1 Mile N of UF    11-4-5-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
WANTED: LOCAL STUDENT
Help with greenhouse/garden in a.m.
(flexible) 6 hrs/wk. Leave message in a.m. 
352-378-9771    11-4-2-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!
"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
1. TELEVISION: In what 1990s 
television series did the character of 
The Log Lady appear?
2. ANATOMY: What organ in the 
human body produces bile?
3. SCIENCE: What is the science of 
classifying things called?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first U.S. president to lose a re-elec -
tion bid?
5. HISTORY: Who was the first Afri-
can-American to be elected to Con-gress from Georgia since Reconstruc-tion and later appointed ambassador to the United Nations?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What country’s 
capital is Addis Ababa?
7. MATH: In geometry, what is a per -
fectly round ball called?
8. AD SLOGANS: What product 
was claimed in advertisements to be “good to the last drop”?
9. MOVIES: Who was the oldest 
performer to receive an Oscar for Best Actor?
10. FAMOUS QUOTES: What 
20th-century humorist once said, “All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure.”
Answers
1. “Twin Peaks”2. Liver
3. Taxonomy
4. John Adams5. Andrew Young6. Ethiopia7. A sphere8. Maxwell House coffee9. Henry Fonda 10. Mark Twain
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 2, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
19 Connections 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's men's basketball 
team, led by first-year UF coach Mike White, is still evaluating the starting rotation heading into Thursday's exhibition. Read the story on pg. 15. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Transfer from Stanford cleared by NCAA
Sophomore center Schuyler Rimmer, a transfer from Stanford, was informed 
Friday that he'd been cleared to play this semester after filing an appeal with the NCAA. If his appeal hadn't been granted, Rimmer would have had to sit out until Jan. 2 against Georgia. UF opens the season Nov. 13 at Navy. Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF running back Kelvin T aylor runs into the end zone for his second touchdown of the game during Florida's 27-3 win against 
Georgia on Saturday at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
UF IS 12TH IN THE 
SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE 
IN RUSHING YARDS PER GAME. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Prior to Florida’s 27-3 win against 
Georgia on Saturday, coach Jim McElwain 
stressed the importance of getting the run-
ning game going during the bye week. 
The Gators responded in a big way 
against the Bulldogs, rushing for a season-
high 258 yards, with running back Kelvin Taylor's 121 yards leading the way.
But if UF wants to have a chance to win 
the Southeastern Conference title, it will have to improve the running game and be consistent through four quarters. 
Even with the high output the Gators 
had against Georgia, they still rank 12th in the 14-team SEC with 143.13 yards per game and are 13th in yards per carry, aver-aging 3.8 yards per rush.
Here’s a quarter-by-quarter breakdown 
of Florida’s rushing offense and Taylor through eight games:
1st Quarter:  Florida has struggled at 
times trying to get the running game off to a good start. 
In the opening quarter, the Gators aver-
age 3.79 yards per carry, 10th in the SEC. Evaluating Florida's rushing attack through eight games
SOCCER
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
After winning the regular season 
Southeastern Conference title last 
Thursday, the Florida soccer team shifts its focus to postseason play — and a tournament that last season 
included an early exit for UF.Hoping to avoid back-to-back let-
downs, No. 5 Florida (14-3-1, 8-2-1 SEC) will open up SEC tournament 
play tonight at 6 in Orange Beach, Alabama, against Vanderbilt.
The venue is one the Gators are 
very familiar with as well — it’s where UF was knocked out in the first game of tournament action in 2014. As the No. 2 seed in the 2014 
tournament, the Gators lost in a pen-alty kick shootout to Tennessee.However, coach Becky Burleigh 
said the team doesn’t plan on suffer-
ing a disappointing defeat this year. 
She’s focused on getting to the sec-ond round and beyond. 
“Given our short stay in Orange 
Beach last year, the returning play-ers will certainly remind the players who haven’t been there yet what that felt like,” Burleigh said. “We want to have more games together as a group. That’s kind of a big mo-
tivation for us in order to advance.”
Junior forward Savannah Jordan 
said the team is using the early loss 
last year to fuel the team’s prepara-tion for tonight’s match.
“We’ve kind of brought it up a 
Gators to face Vanderbilt in first round of SEC tournament
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Florida is ranked No. 10 in this season’s first 
edition of the CoCollege Football Playoff rank-ings, which were released on Tuesday night.It’s the first time the Gators have made an 
appearance in the playoff rankings since the inception of the four-team playoff that debuted last season.
The current teams in the top four are No. 1 
Clemson, No. 2 LSU, No. 3 Ohio State and No. 4 Alabama, with No. 5 Notre Dame and No. 6 Baylor just behind.
No. 7 Michigan State, No. 8 TCU and No. 
9 Iowa round out the top-10 ahead of Florida.
After LSU, Alabama and Florida, the South-
eastern Conference also has No. 18 Ole Miss, No. 19 Texas A&M and No. 20 Mississippi State in the top-25, making a total of six teams — the most of any conference.
Florida State comes in at No. 16In last year’s initial rankings, the Seminoles 
were the only team ranked in the top-four who would go on to finish in the top four in the final rankings.
Ohio State, last season’s champions, were 
ranked No. 16 in the initial 2014 rankings.
The College Football Playoff Committee 
will release new rankings each of the next five weeks until the conclusion of the regular sea-son, at which point the rankings will determine the four teams to participate in the playoff and the teams who will play in the remaining New Year’s six bowl games. UF enters first College Football Playoff rankings at No. 10  SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15“W e don’t want that same 
feeling again because the 
feeling of going home on the 
first day, it sucks.”
Savannah Jordan 
UF soccer forward
The SEC has the most teams 14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Last year, college basketball was too low 
scoring for the NCAA’s taste.
After teams averaged just 67.6 points per 
game last season, the lowest average since the 
1952 season (63.3 ppg), the NCAA decided to 
implement rule changes in June.
The shot clock has been reduced from 35 
to 30 seconds, referees have been instructed to 
limit physicality in the post and allow players greater freedom of movement, and the arc of the restricted area has increased from three to four feet.
“They don’t want the game to be won in 
the weight room,” forward Alex Murphy said 
the referees have told UF.
Through Florida’s pre-season practices, the 
team has struggled to adjust to some of the 
changes.
“Defensively, we have to stop fouling so 
much,” coach Mike White said.
A large part of Florida’s scheme is built 
around pressuring the ball handler. But with the NCAA aiming to decrease contact along the 
perimeter, Florida is trying to find a healthy 
medium between pressing and playing within the new rules.
“We’re asking our guys to extend pressure 
and do that for extended periods of time,” White said. “We just have to be very intelligent with our pressure.”
Lineup still in flux:  Although White 
has a general idea of who will start to open the season, the coach said the lineup is “really flexible.”
“I’ve told these guys since our first team 
meeting … I don’t care who starts,” White said. “And I hope, at least to a certain extent, that they don’t care.”
UF will likely start some combination of John Egbunu at center, Dorian Finney-Smith/Devin Robinson/DeVon Walker at the for-wards, and Kasey Hill/KeVaughn Allen/Chris Chiozza in the backcourt for its exhibition game against Palm Beach Atlantic on Thurs-day.
The closest competition during camp has 
been at small forward and guard. Sophomore forward Robinson has improved his shooting 
(25.6 percent from three last year), but coaches 
have praised Walker’s consistency, defensive effort and leadership in the preseason after re-turning from a torn ACL.
White has also been high on guards Bran-
done Francis-Ramirez and Allen, two offen-sively gifted freshmen who can handle the ball.
“There will be things we can draw from 
Thursday night, perhaps the biggest being we 
have room for improvement in different ar-
eas,” White said. “We’re definitely not there, and we’re far from it, but we have the potential to get there.”
Egbunu ready for debut:  Based on the 
compliments he’s received from White and teammates during preseason practices, Flori-da’s big man is expected to have a large impact on the success of this year’s team on both ends 
of the court.
In one year at USF, Egbunu became the 
Bulls’ all-time rebounding leader for a fresh-
man while averaging 7.4 points, 6.2 rebounds and 1.3 blocks per game.
“I think I’ve gotten better in all areas. I’ve 
changed my body, worked really hard with the strength coach,” the 6-foot-11 transfer said. “I can’t wait to get out there.”
little bit as motivation,” Jordan said. “We don’t want that same feeling again because the feeling of going home on the first day, it sucks.”
Jordan mentioned how last sea-
son’s exit took a toll on her person-ally.
“It was kind of unfortunate and 
unlucky,” Jordan said. “I hate PKs honestly because I think it’s about the game of soccer and when it comes down to PKs, sometimes it’s just about luck and who can finish.”
Aside from using the early round 
loss from a year ago to motivate Flor-ida, junior midfielder Meggie Dough-erty Howard said the team knows nothing is set in stone.
“We’ve talked about how at this 
point we’re only guaranteed one game for the SEC tournament,” Dougherty Howard said.
The Gators enter the postseason 
tournament as the No. 1 seed and found out Monday that their oppo-nent in the second round is Vander-bilt.
Vanderbilt is the No. 8 seed and 
played their way into the second round after a 2-1 win over Georgia. Tonight’s match will also be the second time this season Florida and 
Vanderbilt will go head-to-head.
In the teams’ first meeting this 
year on Sept. 25, the Gators won 3-2 after midfielder Betsy Middleton’s 
56th minute goal gave Florida just enough for the win.
Burleigh said that the SEC tour-
nament poses a tough challenge for the Gators given that Vanderbilt has already seen what the team has to 
offer this season.
“I think it’s great to have an SEC 
tournament because it’s sort of like a 
practice for the NCAA tournament,” Burleigh said. 
“It gives you an opportunity to 
face teams for the second time which makes it much harder because people start to figure you out once 
you’ve played them the first time 
and I think that makes it even more of a challenge.”WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF center John Egbunu walks onto the O'Connell Center court during Gators 
Madness on Oct. 2.
UF men's basketball still solidifying rotation, starting lineup
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh leads practice prior to Florida's 2-1 win against Troy in an exhibition match on Aug. 11 at the soccer practice field at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
SOCCER,  from pg14Florida lost in the first round in 2014 
Meanwhile, Taylor is on the 
opposite end of the spectrum, as 
he’s gotten off to quick starts. 
The junior running back is 
averaging 4.96 yards per carry, with seven rushes going for 10 or more yards — the most of any 
quarter for him.
2nd Quarter:  The second 
quarter is where the running 
game is at its best. UF is averag-
ing 4.68 yards per carry, which 
is seventh in the SEC. 
And the team’s 323 yards in 
the second quarter is eighth in 
the conference. 
Taylor’s production takes a 
slight dip as he averages 4.94 
yards per carry, to go along with three touchdowns.
3rd Quarter: The second 
half is where the rushing offense really takes a hit, along with 
Taylor’s overall production. 
Opposing defenses are mak-
ing halftime adjustments to slow 
him down and put a halt to the 
Gators’ ground attack.
In the third quarter, Florida 
ranks dead last in the SEC in 
yards (213), yards per carry (3.28), longest rush (19 yards), first down runs (nine) and rush-es of 10-plus yards (six). 
Taylor has just 81 yards in 
the third quarter this season with his longest running play being 9 yards. 
Out of all qualified players 
— including quarterbacks — Taylor’s 81 yards in the third quarter isn’t in the top 100 in the country.
4th Quarter:  Florida is tied 
for fourth in the SEC in fourth-quarter rushing touchdowns 
with four. 
However that’s where the 
good things come to an end for 
UF. 
Florida’s 287 yards are tied 
for 11th in the conference. 
The team’s yards per carry 
average is only marginally bet-ter, at 3.5 yards per carry, which 
is the second-lowest in the con-
ference. 
Florida also has the fewest 
first down runs of any team (14) 
and fewest runs of 10-plus yards 
(seven).
Taylor is downright anemic 
in the fourth quarter, carrying the ball 40 times for 87 yards. 
He has only one carry that’s 
gone for 10 yards or more. And he only has five rushes that have gone for a first down. FOOTBALL,  from pg14Taylor averages just 
2.18 yards per carry 
in the fourth quarter Nine players are new in 201516   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015
BEHIND ENEMY LINES
With No. 10 Florida set to take on 
Vanderbilt at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, 
alligatorSports editor Graham Hall reached 
out to Ben Weinrib, sports editor at the 
Vanderbilt Hustler, for his thoughts on the Homecoming showdown and who he thinks will win on Saturday. 
GH: Florida quarterback Treon Harris 
had a rough outing against Georgia, com-pleting just 42.1 percent of his passes. How 
do you expect the Commodores to play Har-
ris, knowing that he can struggle at times as a passer? 
BW: Vanderbilt’s defense has been more 
or less its lone bright spot this season. 
They’ve faced three quarterbacks who 
are top-10 in the nation in passing along with Heisman candidate Greg Ward Jr., yet 
only two quarterbacks have passed for more 
yards than their season average and only one has completed a higher percentage of his passes than his season average. 
Harris looked better last week than he 
did against LSU, but I expect Vanderbilt to load the box and put plenty of pressure on him.
GH: With Gainesville native Ralph Webb 
returning to his hometown, how critical is it for Vanderbilt to establish a consistent run-ning game against the Gators?
BW: If for no other reason than to take 
the ball out of Johnny McCrary and Kyle Shurmur’s hands, establishing the run will be critical for Vanderbilt this week. 
They only averaged 2.9 yards per car-
ry two years ago when they won in The Swamp, but they also picked off Tyler Mur-phy three times and held Florida to 39 rush-
ing yards on 34 attempts. 
Expect to see a good deal of Darrius 
Sims running the ball to the outside as well, and he’s been Vanderbilt’s most dangerous 
weapon lately.
GH: Like Florida’s Harris, Johnny Mc-
Crary has the ability to run the football and beat you with his legs. 
The Gators struggled earlier this season 
against the read option — Tennessee’s Josh Dobbs ran for more than 130 yards against UF at home. How do you expect coach Derek Mason 
to utilize McCrary on Saturday?
BW: It’ll be interesting to see how the 
quarterback situation shakes out this week. 
Shurmur has started the past two weeks 
with a healthy dose of McCrary sprinkled in 
throughout the game, but Shurmur is also 
dealing with a concussion. 
I’m guessing we’ll see a lot more Mc-Crary this week. Interestingly enough, most of McCrary’s runs have come on broken down plays (partly thanks to an injury-
riddled offensive line), so I’m not sure how 
much they’ll expand the playbook to in-clude more read option.
GH: What about Vanderbilt’s defense? 
How can the Commodores exploit Florida’s offense? 
BW: Vanderbilt’s biggest areas of 
strength are in 3rd down defense (5th na-tionally at a .252 ﬁ  rst down rate) and red zone defense (17th nationally at a 75 per-cent score rate). 
If they can hold Florida to less scores 
(and more ﬁ  eld goals), that’ll be about their only way to keep up. They’ll need to focus on stopping Kelvin Taylor (18th nationally in run defense) so that they make Treon 
Harris beat them through the air.
GH: How does McCrary throw against 
UF’s vaunted secondary? Will the Commo-
dores get creative or will Mason insist they stick to the formula? 
BW: I’m not so optimistic here. McCrary 
(and Shurmur) has struggled with turn-overs, and they absolutely can’t afford to lose the turnover battle in this game. 
My best guess is that Andy Ludwig keeps 
the throws conservative, tries to get the ball to Trent Sherﬁ  eld and Sims as much as pos-sible, and there’s quite a bit of running. 
GH: Who do you think will win on Satur-
day and what’s the ﬁ  nal score? 
BW: As much as I’d love to see a repeat 
of two years ago, Jordan Matthews isn’t walking through these doors again. 
Florida wins 20-10.Scouting the Commodores: A Q&A with the Vanderbilt Hustler’s sports editor 
AP Photo
Vanderbilt running back Ralph Webb (7) scores a touchdown against Missouri on 
Oct. 24 in Nashville, T ennessee. 
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Ben Weinrib
twitter: @benweinrib