By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
BATON ROUGE, La. — The Gators trav-
eled to LSU looking to continue the pro-
gram’s rebirth that has come under new head coach Jim McElwain.
Instead, the No. 8 Gators’ chance for an 
undefeated season died in Death Valley on Saturday, the victim of a 35-28 defeat at the hands of the No. 6 Tigers.
But while UF’s perfect streak has come 
to an end, its season still has life.
Following a week that saw Florida lose 
its starting quarterback to a yearlong sus-pension, lose a special teams player who was arrested for reportedly shooting a gun in the direction of his pregnant girlfriend, and lose its ﬁ  rst game of the season at the hands of a powerhouse conference oppo-nent, the Florida football program contin-ued to ﬁ  ght as if it were business as usual.
“As you go through life, you get tests, 
man,” McElwain said. “Things don’t always happen the way you want them. ... Really the measure is how you deal with it.”
After Florida was tested mentally off the 
ﬁ  eld last week, LSU (6-0, 4-0 Southeastern 
Conference) tested the Gators physically 
early and often on Saturday, giving Florida a warm-up for the exams it could face later in the season.
Running back and Heisman Trophy frontrunner Leonard Fournette ripped Flor-ida’s defense for 180 yards and two touch-downs on a season-high 31 carries.
Quarterback Brandon Harris looked 
poised, picking apart the Gators’ coveted secondary to the tune of 202 yards and a pair of touchdowns on 13-of-19 passing, a 68.4-percent completion mark that ranks highest among UF’s opponents this year.
Defensive lineman Lewis Neal and line-
backer Deion Jones led LSU’s defensive ef-fort up front, combining for 20 tackles, four sacks and six tackles for loss.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 40 MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
UF men’s tennis senior advances to 
singles ﬁ  nals in home tournament
He will face the top-seeded player today for the 
title, pg. 16
Dogs in costume race to raise money for cancer
It was Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst Halloweener Derby Day, pg. 3
Man arrested for heroin in butt
He also reportedly had a cup of marijuana in his car, pg. 5The streets belong to us
Check out the Active Streets Gainesville photo story, pg. 8-9
‘LEARNING FROM THE EXPERIENCE’
McElwain: Response to loss is keyFLORIDA 28 LSU 35
SEE FOOBTALL,  PAGE 14
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Dressed in pumps and curly red 
wigs, UF students danced their way 
down a light-lined runway as disco lights ﬂ  ashed Friday night.
UF’s Pride Student Union held its 
sixth Drag Ball in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. About 200 students watched as the drag queens recreat-ed the 1970s and 1980s drag culture.
“Tonight is a night to commemo-
rate them,” said Damian Gonzalez,  co-president of PSU.
Gonzalez and Hiram Martinez-
Cabrera, the co-presidents of PSU, 
hosted the event. Martinez-Cabrera, 
wearing a red dress, black pumps and shoulder-length red hair, asked students to get out of their seats and surround the runway.
Liz Reeds, 20, shimmied in her 
leopard-print jumpsuit, shaking to Jennifer Lopez’s “First Love.” She blew kisses for the cameras and her 
fans. 
“Last year was very amateur for 
me,” she said. “I really stepped up 
my game.”
PSU also encouraged audience 
members to show off their best poses and runway struts. The winners got a black pump with pearls at the tip of the shoe.
Santa Fe College English and po-
litical science freshman James Hardi-son and his friend competed for the pump.
“We were pulled into it, but then 
we were like, ‘Go hard or go home,’” the 19-year-old said. “I was nervous, 
but I was still hot.”Students get dolled up in drag
SEE WEDDING,  PAGE 4Justin T ompkins / Alligator 
Burlesque dancer Kitty La Tuch performs a sultry routine to “Feel-ing Good” by Michael Bublé during Pride Student Union’s Drag Ball on Friday. La Tuch was among ﬁ  ve performers who lip-synched, sang and danced to popular songs in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-room to celebrate 70s and 80s drag culture.
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
The day before his wedding, 
Kevin Terrell needed a ring.
Looking for a size 14 ring, he 
went from store to store before he ﬁ  nally found one in Piercing Pagoda in The Oaks Mall.
Caught up in his search, he 
would only sleep three hours be-fore his big day.
But about noon on Saturday, 
his now-husband, Jake Holton, was able to walk down the aisle with Terrell’s ring in his pocket. The two men, dressed in match-ing purple shirts, suspenders and black sneakers, walked together past smiling friends and family.
The wedding was made pos-
sible by the Unitarian Univer-salist Fellowship of Gainesville, which offered free marriages to same-sex couples as part of Pride Days 2015, a week of celebration sponsored by Pride Community Center of North Central Florida.
As a whole, Unitarian Univer-
salism is a creedless denomina-tion open to all people, said Rev. Maureen Killoran, development minister at the UUFG.
“Sexual orientation and gen-
der identity is simply a part of who you are as a human being,” Killoran said. “We believe that love comes to people in different ways.”
Killoran stood at the front of 
the chapel as Terrell and Holton vowed to be loyal and stand up for one another.  
The two men grabbed the 
rings from their pockets before sealing the marriage with a kiss.  
Outside, the newlyweds stood 
by their car, smoking cigarettes as they sighed with relief.
“It’s done,” Holton said. “We 
ﬁ  nally did it, and now we can party.”
For the two men, both Santa 
Fe College graduates, their cer- They do: Same-sex 
couples exchange vows during Pride Days 2015
“Sexual orientation and 
gender identity is simply 
a part of who you are as a 
human being.”
Maureen Killoran
Development minister at 
Unitarian Universalist Fellowship 
of GainesvilleSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, at 970 Natural Area 
Drive. Everyone is welcome to 
attend and learn about pub-lic speaking. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkingga-tors.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in 
which members are empowered 
to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and per-sonal growth.
Graduate Student Panel present-
ed by HSFPre-professional? Come on out 
to HSF's Graduate Student Panel 
where you will be able to learn more about various graduate schools. HSF's event is free, din-ner will be provided at no cost, and scholarships are presented at every meeting. Join HSF in Little Hall, Room 239, on Oct. 29 at 7:20 p.m. Please RSVP at 
bit.ly/1ZsLRKv and join HSF's 
Facebook group at facebook.com/groups/hsfatuf. Email HSF at hsfscholarchapteruf@gmail for more information.
Authors@UF: Sugata Ray
Sugata Ray, lecturer and re-searcher in the Warrington 
College of Business, will talk 
about his book “Principles of Quantitative Equity Investing: A Complete Guide to Creating, Evaluating, and Implementing Trading Strategies” on Monday at noon in Smathers Library, Room 100. Refreshments will be served. It is free and open to the 
public.
Swamp Bowl Flag Football 
Tournament
Don’t forget to register for the Swamp Bowl Flag Football Tournament by Tuesday at 5 p.m. Compete against teams from more than 30 universities 
that send their best intramu-
ral sports flag football teams and officials to UF. The tour-nament will be Friday through Sunday. You can have just men or women teams that consists of seven players or co-rec teams with eight players (four men and four women). Register on 
RSConnect.
Adventure Race
Adventure Race 2015 will be 
taking place on Saturday at Lake Wauburg. If you have not regis-tered yet, you can still register on RSConnect to be on the wait-
ing list if a team drops out. You 
can also come out and enjoy a day outside watching others compete.
Drive a tractor at the fall festival
The Agronomy-Soils club pres-ents the annual Fall Festival on Nov. 4 from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. at 
the Agronomy Teaching Farm 
located at 2024 IFAS Research Drive. Activities include free food, games, harvesting crops, driving a tractor and more. Support the field and fork pan-try with a nonperishable dona-tion as admission.
Funding opportunity for of-in-
terest graduate studentsThe International Center, in conjunction with UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Graduate School and Office of the Provost, is pleased to an-nounce the 2015-2016 Research Abroad for Graduate Students 
funding opportunity. This op-
portunity is open to advanced doctoral students in the sci-ence, technology, engineering or mathematics disciplines to conduct an extended period of research at a foreign labora-tory or field-site during Spring or Summer 2016. Selected stu-
dents will receive funding up 
to $10,000 toward the costs of the international research trip. Applicants should submit all materials electronically to the Office for Global Research Engagement at OGRE@ufic.ufl.edu, with subject line “Research Abroad for Graduate Students 
Application,” no later than 
Friday at 3 p.m. For complete details and an application form, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/OGRE/FundingOpp. Please direct any questions to Nikki Kernaghan at nikkik@ufic.ufl.edu.
UFIC and the Fulbright Lecture 
Committee hosts “What I Need to Prepare If I Receive a Fulbright Award and Go Abroad”This workshop, held on Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon, will be presented by Karen Reed, a clinical assistant and professor of nursing. Reed 
was a Fulbright Scholar in 
Cambodia for the 2013-2014 academic year. There, she taught as a visiting professor at the Kampot Regional Training Center in Kampot, Cambodia, as well as conducted profes-sional development programs for Cambodian nursing faculty, 
nurses and nursing administra-tors. Reed holds professional 
memberships in Sigma Theta Tau, the North Florida Chapter 
of the Fulbright Association, 
the Transcultural Nursing Society and the Association for Rehabilitation Nurses. She has been an active volunteer for the American Heart Association as a CPR instructor since 1982. Internationally, she serves as a volunteer mentor to nursing 
students in Cambodia and vol-
unteers her time and resources to teach in their undergradu-ate nursing programs as well as provides professional devel-opment programming for staff nurses in both public and pri-vate Cambodian hospitals.
Theatre production
P. K. Yonge Performing Arts Center’s Fall theatre produc-tion tells the story of a family of exuberant and startled kids left to fend for themselves as their mother and father take off to pursue a life of gambling. “Every 17 Minutes The Crowd 
Goes Crazy” is a dark comedy 
written by the award-winning author Paul Zindel.  This play features an exciting, diverse and creative chorus of actors who punctuate this highly theatrical and poignant legend of family structure. Join us Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday at 7 
p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. in 
the P. K. Yonge Performing Arts Center. This creatively challeng-ing story is rated PG-13.  General admission tickets for “Every 17 Minutes The Crowd Goes Crazy” can be purchased at the door 45 minutes before the show begins for $10.  For more information, 
visit the P.K. Yonge Performing 
Arts Facebook page.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 40
HIGH  75° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
IT WAS GAINESVILLE’S FIRST 
HALLOWEENER DERBY DAY.
By Kendaline Watt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Brown didn’t expect his dog 
to make it to the ﬁ  nish line Saturday.
Reptar, a 2-year-old Chiweenie, had 
never run a race before but managed to 
clinch third place while running in a di-
nosaur costume.
Brown brought his dog to Gaines-
ville’s ﬁ  rst Halloweener Derby Day, a 
fundraiser to raise money for local foun-
dation Climb for Cancer. As of press 
time, the amount of money has yet to be determined.
“I’m shocked, I didn’t think our little 
guy had it in him, to be honest,” Brown said. “The ﬁ  rst race was a little confus-ing, but he got the hang of it after that — he did pretty well.”
The event’s race, organized for dachshunds in Halloween costumes, 
was held in Kanapaha Veterans Memo-
rial Park.  
“My favorite part of the day was 
watching the smiles on people’s faces,” said Ron Farb, the Climb for Cancer co-
founder. “Certainly raising money is 
the most important goal, but to just see people having a good time, that’s the ic-ing on the cake.”
He organized the event after attend-
ing a similar dachshund race in Destin, Florida.
“It’s so funny because they’re so 
clueless,” said Stephanie Oliveria, who 
brought her two dogs, Daphne and 
Bruno, and dressed them both as di-nosaurs. “They come out and they just sniff and sniff and once they notice their 
owner, it could be another two minutes 
later — it’s hilarious.”
“The dogs don’t seem to care what 
they wear, but they’re workin’ it,” she said.Dogs in costume race to 
raise money for cancer 
Kendaline Watt / Alligator 
Reptar, a 2-year-old Chiweenie dog, placed third in the Halloweener Derby at Kanapaha Veterans 
Memorial Park on Saturday. His owner Michael Brown, manager of The Swamp Restaurant, said Rep-tar had never raced before.
ABOUT 500 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) encouraged UF 
students and Gainesville residents Friday to 
get into trouble, but the good kind of trouble.
Lewis, the last surviving member of the 
Big Six civil rights activists, told stories about the Civil Rights Movement and the signing of the Voting Rights Act to about 500 people in 
the University Auditorium. He was brought 
to commemorate the act’s 50th anniversary.
He said he met Martin Luther King Jr. 
in 1958 and became involved in nonviolent protests.
The first time he got arrested in 1960, he 
said he felt liberated.
“I got in trouble,” he said. “Good trouble. 
Necessary trouble.”
He said he regularly saw black people 
standing in lines at courthouses, trying to register to vote by taking “literacy tests.” Sometimes the tests asked black people to count all the bubbles on a soap bar or jelly 
beans in a jar.
He said he and other civil rights leaders met with President John F. Kennedy in 1963 
to ask for a Civil Rights Act. After Kennedy was assassinated, President Lyndon B. John-
son signed the act on July 2, 1964.Lewis said when King met with Johnson 
to request a Voting Rights Act, Johnson said 
there wouldn’t be enough votes from Con-
gress to pass it. This led to the march from Selma to Montgomery.
“The story of Selma is the story of Amer-
ica,” Lewis said.
Lewis said the day he marched he brought 
a backpack filled with food and toiletries 
with him in anticipation of spending time in jail.
He said when the activists crossed the Ed-
mund Pettus Bridge, they were met by state troopers who began beating them. Lewis was hit in the head with a nightstick.
“I thought I saw death,” Lewis said. “I 
thought I was going to die on that bridge.”
Lewis said progress has been made since 
the Voting Rights Act was signed into law on Aug. 6, 1965, but there has been a deliberate 
effort to undo that work with the Supreme 
Court’s 2013 decision to invalidate Section 4 of the act, which requires states to get federal approval to change election laws.
He encouraged attendees to get involved 
in public service.
UF psychology sophomore Serdjine Ap-
plyrs said she wished more people could have heard Lewis’ message.
“I think it was really awe-inspiring to see 
this person who had been through it all,” the 19-year-old said.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
emony was the celebration of a love that 
was illegal in Florida until this past June.
“Times have changed,” said Terrell, 
who will now use his husband’s last name. “Rules are meant to be broken.”
His husband said it was about time.“It doesn’t matter if you’re black, white, 
purple, yellow or green,” Holton said. “Mar-ry whoever the hell you want.”Half an hour later, two women walked 
through the building’s doors, awaiting a marriage of their own.
With rainbow-hued banners lining the 
walls around them, Tara Lee and Deblyn McCaughin wrapped their hands together to symbolize the bond of matrimony. The two then shared vows.
Lee, 67, recalled the past as she read 
from her yellow, legal-pad paper.
“I remember telling you (McCaughin) I 
wasn’t interested in a serious relationship,” she said, laughing, as she recalled getting together on Mother’s Day in 2010.
Lee took her wife’s name, abandoning 
the name of the family who hasn’t spoken to her in 15 years. Communication stopped, she said, around the same time she transi-tioned from a man to a woman.
“I definitely don’t like borders; they get 
in the way of people getting to know each other,” she said. “My family believes in bor-ders.”
Looking forward, the McCaughins plan on moving to Albuquerque, New Mexico, this week and beginning a new life together.
By the end of the day, neither of them 
could take a step without being greeted by bear hugs and well wishes.
Roz Doris, who met the couple when she 
first moved to Gainesville about five years ago, said she was happy her friends could finally make their love official.
“They were meant for each other,” she 
said, smiling.
WEDDING,  from pg1Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Gainesville offered free marriagesAshley K. Jolicoeur / Alligator
Civil rights activist and U.S. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) speaks in the University Auditorium to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act on Friday. “Voting is the most sacred tool of nonviolence, and it must be used, ” he said.
Civil rights leader talks Voting Rights Act to UF students
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
When Xinjie Gonos moved 
from Yellow Mountain, China, she 
could barely fit a bed in her tiny Gainesville apartment.
Gonos, who graduated from UF 
in 2009, now runs US Ready, Inc., a company she started in June to help international students with everything from finding a suitable apartment to learning sarcasm. 
This month, she’s offering these 
services individually, not grouped together as a several-hundred-dol-lar package, like they have been for 
about four months.
Currently, US Ready’s local 
package offers students help find-
ing an apartment, banking, getting a cell phone and practicing their English for $500. For $800, stu-dents also get help grocery shop-ping and a person to pick them up from the airport.
Although the company isn’t a 
nonprofit, the 29-year-old said she tries to keep prices low.“Anything we can do for free, 
we will do for free,” she said.
Gonos came to the U.S. in 2007 
to study electrical engineering at UF. She said she had a hard time adjusting.
To integrate UF international 
students into American culture, she said she holds events, such as Sarcasm and Slang 101, Bar Drink 
Tasting and International Friends 
and Dinners. Each event draws about 30 people.
Students come from all over the 
world — China, India, Saudi Ara-bia and France — she said. The 
events provide a way for students 
to learn about each other and other cultures.
“It’s still good to know about 
different cultures,” she said. “In your (spare) time, you can be do-ing this or that, but you can do something meaningful.”
Many international students don’t know English slang, Gonos said. An American co-worker once told her he would be a fly-on-the-wall, and she didn’t know what he meant.
The bar-drinking event helps 
students learn how to order a drink at a bar and what each drink tastes like, she said.
“Next time they go there, they’re 
like, ‘Oh, I’m a boss; I know what I’m doing,’” she said.
For the dinners, students car-
pool and practice their English as 
they order food. At the beginning 
of the month, the group met for dinner at Andaz Indian Restaurant.
Daming Wu, a UF international 
student from Shanghai, China, came to the U.S. two months ago to get his master’s degree in busi-ness management. He saw Sarcasm and Slang 101 on Facebook and de-
cided to go.
“We feel difficulties to under-
stand their jokes,” the 24-year-old 
said. “This kind of event is really great for us.”
In the future, Gonos said she 
wants to expand US Ready to be a national company.
“I want this to be like a one-stop 
place,” she said.UF alumna’s business helps studentsLOCAL
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Gainesville Regional Utility 
is demanding nearly $1 million in repayments from Gainesville Renewable Energy Center for overcharges since 2013.
In a letter to GREC President 
Jim Gordon last Tuesday, GRU General Manager Ed Bielarski Jr. demanded $985,804.96 and accrued interest from GREC within 30 days.
“Failing a complete and time-
ly refund ... GRU will submit its claim to arbitration pursuant (to 
contractual sections),” Bielarski 
added in the letter.
If GRU reclaims the money, 
it will “ultimately end up as a reduction in customer bills … (when) GRU sets electric rates annually,” Bielarski said in a written statement Friday.
The demand comes after a city audit report released last month found that GREC has used a euro to dollar exchange rate in calculating a cost adjust-er as outlined in a controversial biomass plant contract, result-ing in GREC overcharging GRU 
for energy.
Under contractual agree-
ments, the audit states, GREC 
was suppose to use a dollar to euro Exchange rate.
The rate was used instead of 
the contractually required dollar to euro exchange rate, according to an audit.
GREC Managing Director Al-
bert Morales wrote in an emailed statement that GREC has fol-lowed contract agreements.
“This is nothing more than a 
contrived issue, manufactured by the City as part of its avowed and repeatedly acknowledged campaign to extract economic 
concessions from GREC,” Mo-
rales said.GRU demands nearly 
$1 million from GREC
“It’s still good to know about 
different cultures.”
Xinjie Gonos
US Ready, Inc. business ownerIt’s for international studentsMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Emma Green / Alligator 
TURQUOISE TABLING 
Natalie Hernandez, a UF business alumna, stands behind her 
jewelry at the Gainesville Arts Market on Saturday. Her store, Moonstone, sells handmade stone pieces, which she cuts and shapes herself.
CRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man early Friday morning for 
reportedly having a cup of mari-juana in his car and 6 grams of heroin in his butt.
About 1 a.m. Friday, police 
stopped Mikel Henry Green II, 24, after he reportedly stopped his car too far in front of a stop line at the intersection of Northeast Second Street and Northeast 23rd Avenue.
When the ofﬁ  cer approached 
the vehicle, a strong scent of weed came from the car, accord-ing to the report. Upon searching Green’s vehicle, police reportedly 
found a plastic cup with 6 grams of weed and a small scale on 
the ﬂ  oorboard on the driver’s side.
Ofﬁ  cers found 
an additional half of a gram of loose weed in 
Green’s front-right pants’ pocket, according to the report.
Police also found 6 grams of 
heroin in a plastic baggie between Green’s buttocks, according to the report.
Green told ofﬁ  cers both the 
heroin and the weed belonged to him, the report said.
Green could not be reached for 
comment as of press time.
Police arrested Green on charg-
es of possession of a controlled substance, possession of less than 20 grams of cannabis, and use or possession of drug paraphernalia.
Authorities took Green to the 
Alachua County Jail where he was released just before 10 p.m. Friday after paying a $10,000 bond. Man arrested for heroin in butt THE FAIR RAISED ABOUT $15,000 FOR 
THE WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.
By Beatriz Martinez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Barry Janks was afraid his warthogs were going to get 
stage fright Saturday.
Two days before, Janks, one of two founders of Carson 
Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation, was training Wilbert and Winnie to race a course around their enclosed 
area. But he said he was worried they wouldn’t be able to 
do it in front of an audience.
“They do it for me,” Janks said Thursday. “But we’ll 
see how they act when there’s a whole bunch of people around.”
But, when it came time for the warthog race on Sat-
urday during the foundation’s ﬁ  rst animal fair and open house, Wilbert and Winnie performed. About 2,000 atten-dants interacted with wildlife, said Christine Janks, Barry’s wife and the foundation’s co-founder.
“We hope to grow it into a huge fall event in 
Gainesville,” Christine said.
The couple decided they wanted to host this event to 
raise money to feed the animals and care for them. The event included multiple enclosures, where the guests learned about each animal, including Sunﬂ  ower the Ben-
gal tiger and Scarlett the hyena, who is very special to 
Barry.  
“I bottle-raised her the ﬁ  rst three months of her life,” 
Barry said. “She can be a little scary when she grabs onto my leg, but she’s a real sweetie.”
Christine estimated the event raised about $15,000. At-
tendants were encouraged to donate an admission fee of $8 for adults, $7 for college students and $5 for children.
The foundation’s animals are fully dependent on dona-
tions, and Christy Field, a veterinary medicine graduate student, said she thought it’s a great cause to support.
“These are the kinds of owners that deﬁ  nitely seem to 
give their animals a lot of space and a lot of shade,” Field said. “It demonstrates responsible exotic pet ownership.”
Clif Nelson, chef and owner of Paramount Grill, de-
cided to become one of 28 sponsors for the event after meeting the Janks’ and visiting the wildlife conservation.
“I like the cause,” Nelson said. “We’ve done beneﬁ  t 
dinners at Paramount Grill to help feed them (the animals) 
because those bad boys eat a lot.”   Carson Springs hosts ﬁ  rst animal fair
Green II
“She can be a little scary when she grabs onto my 
leg, but she’s a real sweetie.”
Barry Janks
Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation co-founder
 The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Congressman Yoho embodies the American dream
Last week, I decided to talk to Gaines-
ville’s own Ted Yoho, representative for the third District. As someone who has previously worked on his campaign, I know he has a lot to say and would 
make for a great interviewee.
During the wide-ranging interview, in 
which we talked about everything from ﬁ  scal responsibility to Gator football and his enjoy-ment of Jimmy Buffett songs, I expected a few speciﬁ  c topics to come up. I expected the Freedom Caucus congressman to throw large numbers at me. The interview was conducted at 8 a.m., so I was not ready for numbers of any particular size. Such num-
bers included $18 trillion in debt, $22 trillion spent on 
the War on Poverty and the $1 trillion in accumulating student loan debt.
I also expected Rep. Yoho to throw some folksy 
charm my way. He told me life is kind of like a tomato: Everyone wants to be green on the vine, but you don’t want to become ripe because the next stage is rotten. The reason he gave such a response is because he’s an “ag” — agricultural — guy.
However, I did not expect the whole conservation 
to have a completely hopeful and optimistic tone. Ad-mittedly, I’ve succumbed to the caricature of the an-gry, doom-and-gloom Tea Party congressman the media often purports. Yoho quickly dispelled this stereotype with the central thrust of his political message: afford-ing opportunity. Opportunity is what Yoho is trying to spread during his tenure in the House.
The reason the congressman is part of the Freedom 
Caucus — “a coalition of like-minded people seeking to challenge the status quo” — is because the establish-ment leadership does not give the rank-and-ﬁ  le mem-bers of the House the opportunity to let their voices be heard. The Freedom Caucus came into existence in order to force the leadership to be more accountable to its members and responsive to the nation. Like the congressman, the caucus is all about opportunity. A leader like the caucus-backed speaker nomi-nee Rep. Daniel Webster — coincidentally, another congressman from Florida I worked for — would give members of the House an opportunity to enact real change.  
According to Yoho, he supports ﬁ  scal re-
sponsibility and the Fair Tax Act because he wants to give businesses the opportunity to grow and prosper.
The main reason America is so exception-
al in the eyes of the congressman is because 
of the opportunities it affords to its citizens. Yoho of all people knows how exceptional American opportunities can be. At the age of 15, the congressman’s family home 
was repossessed. At 18, he was out on his own. Married 
at 19, he and his wife were on food stamps for ﬁ  ve to six weeks. For a period of time, he lived in a 12-by-48 mobile home. Despite all of these life experiences, Yoho became “a veterinarian, [has] a successful marriage for 40 years and ran for congress with no political experi-ence.”
He told me to look at the possibilities in life and not 
to accept limitations. He told me to dare to dream. Yoho 
hopes to preserve these American opportunities capital-
ized by people like him for future generations. That’s why he is a member of the Freedom Caucus. That’s why he’s a ﬁ  scal hawk. That’s why he ran for congress in the ﬁ  rst place.   
The opportunity to speak to Yoho once again was 
a great experience. Far too often, people like to think all politicians are the same, seeking higher ofﬁ  ce only for personal beneﬁ  t. I hope Yoho’s words can do away 
with this myth. Whether you agree with Yoho or not, 
you cannot say he is in politics for selﬁ  sh reasons. I truly believe he is out there to provide opportunities to the citizens of this country. He has made this point loud and clear. If you don’t believe me, you probably haven’t afforded yourself the opportunity to listen to him.   
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.A living legend 
came to UF, but 
where were the 
students?
Last Friday, civil rights activist and living legend Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) spoke at the University Audito-rium to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act in 1965, as well as raise awareness about its uncertain future. The act, which 
was passed by President Lyndon B. Johnson following sev-eral unprovoked attacks and deaths of civil rights activists, abolished literacy tests and similar tactics aimed at keep-ing black Americans from voting. The act’s very existence can be traced to the efforts of Lewis and his colleagues, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and A. Philip Randolph; to have Lewis in UF’s halls is to have a giant in our midst.
However, if one were to assess Rep. Lewis’ historical 
and political importance based on the attendance of the 
event, one might be led to think otherwise. As far as we 
could see, a line to get tickets to the event was nonexistent. Additionally, although the auditorium was at near-capac-ity (albeit with an entirely empty balcony), one needs to take into consideration that these numbers were bolstered by professors who made attendance mandatory as well as students who attended in order to fulfill requirements for “What is the Good Life.”  Lewis is a man who not only bore witness to history, but also in his own words, worked 
alongside the spirit of history itself in order to affect mean-
ingful change. He is an exemplary model not only for those who would seek to be activists, but for anyone who yearns to live a meaningful, memorable life.
Ostensibly, UF is a school filled to the brim with young, 
driven individuals who are going to change the world with the skills and knowledge they gained from their time in Gainesville. So we ask: Why wasn’t Rep. Lewis’ event packed wall to wall with attentive ears and eager hearts?
Really, there is no excuse. The most logical excuse — 
that a considerable population of students made their way to Baton Rouge for the LSU football game — is not only a poor one but speaks to a larger problem of intellectual apathy among UF’s student populace. Getting turnt and in-dulging in the communal football spirit is wonderful. We know it, you know it and thousands of UF alumni know it. 
But look at where we go to school! We’re one of the top 
public universities in the nation, and we have the honor of 
claiming hundreds of alumni who left their mark not only 
on the university, but also on the world. Hearing an indi-vidual of Lewis’ stature is coming to speak at UF ought to inspire far more excitement and awe than the prospect of a drunken weekend in New Orleans.
Sometimes, we forget just how lucky we are to go here 
and how many wonderful opportunities are afforded to us. 
Once we graduate, there are strong odds we’re not going 
to be able to see living legends speak for free, nor will they 
be within walking distance of our homes. Next time your 
college sends you an email about an upcoming speaker, don’t bother debating between them and “Beat the Clock” at Grog House Bar and Grill — your brain and wallet will thank you later.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Amie Kreppel is the founding director 
of the Jean Monnet Center of Excel-lence and associate professor of po-
litical science.
AM: Should poorer EU nations follow the 
example of Germany in welcoming refugees?
AK: Nobody is asking the Eastern European 
member states to do exactly what the richer 
states are doing. 
The quota system is based partially on population 
but also on available resources.
Until now, there has been an incredibly unfair situ-
ation in which Greece and Italy have taken the lion’s share of those flowing into Europe, while the rest of Europe did little to help. 
Now the countries of Eastern Europe have become 
the frontier of choice and are demanding assistance from the other member states. 
The point is that Europe needs to act jointly to tackle 
the problem.
AM: Do refugee ﬂ  ows pose a security risk?AK: There are already so many actual European citi-
zens turning to ISIS and other extremist groups; the in-
creased risk of new refugees secretly belonging to these 
groups is relatively marginal.
AM: How is the refugee crisis affecting the popular-
ity of the EU?
AK: The initial inability to act has been a substantial 
blow. The fact that it is now trying to act is positive for the EU. 
The crisis has made people in older member states 
more skeptical about the decision to let in all of the Eastern Europe countries, and about their democratic character.
It has particularly affected Hungary, which was al-
ready flirting with non-democratic practices, and made 
it more difficult for people to ignore Orbán’s trepases.
But in other ways it’s been relatively positive. There 
are many images of people across Europe welcoming 
refugees.
AM: What type of party is the Movimento 5 Stelle?AK: Personalistic and semi-populist. Calling it a polit-
ical party is problematic because it’s personality based; there’s very little ideology.
It’s not so different from Silvio Berlusconi’s party, 
initially. When Berlusconi first ran for office, the ad campaign was “Forza Italia,” which is a cheer used at soccer matches, “Vai Forza Italia!” His advertising cam-
paign put up billboards that said “Forza Italia,” but it 
was not clear what they were for. 
It looked like a Swatch campaign. There was no party 
platform or political ideology.
It’s ironic that Beppe Grillo created the M5S in part 
in opposition to Berlusconi and politics as usual, but his methodology is not that different from Berlusconi’s: It’s all about him.
The M5S party has more of an ideology 
than Berlusconi had at first, but not a policy 
platform. It is not an institutionalized party, 
but it has the potential to endure in Italy be-cause it feeds into a lot of discontent.
AM: What did Berlusconi teach us about 
democracy?
AK: Berlusconi played into the myth of 
identity in Italy as well. This is the Italy that is a country of culture, wealth, savoir-faire and power, where men 
are men, and women are women. 
That resonated with many, particularly those who 
didn’t live that kind of life themselves.
In the U.S., Donald Trump finds support in a similar 
fashion. He can argue, “I can say whatever I want be-
cause I’m independent, I’m powerful and I can get the beautiful babes.” Vladimir Putin plays the same game. So perhaps Berlusconi is one example of a broader trend, a more general type of political leader.
AM: How has the right in Italy changed?AK: The changes to the center-right have been a 
function of the Tangentopoli and Mani Pulite scandals 
of the 1990s, and the recognition that having one party 
in power for such a long time necessarily leads to cor-ruption.
With the end of the Christian Democrats and the ab-
solute fragmentation of the party system on the center-right, you had the opportunity for a variety of parties. You already had a rise of nationalist, xenophobic parties such as the Lega Nord. 
You had a re-burgeoning of the former Movimento 
Sociale Italiano, the former neo-fascists, who became the Alleanza Nazionale and joined the Berlusconi Gov-ernment, and you had the rise of Berlusconi, who was able to come to power because of the vacuum in the 
center-right.
People don’t often realize how catastrophic the mid-
1990s political upheaval was. Italy was a country on the 
verge of real systemic crisis.
If these things had been occurring in Africa or Latin 
America, the headlines would have read, “Democracy in crisis.” 
But because Italy is Italy and because Italy is in Eu-
rope, it was just, “Oh, Italy’s a little shakier than it usu-
ally is.”
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.A look at Europe’s refugee crisis and Italy's politicsColumn
This Halloween, like all Halloweens, the ﬂ  oodgates 
for offensive costumes will open. In two weeks’ time, lots of people will think it’s OK to make fun 
of cultures and demonstrate a complete disregard 
toward the historical and social context of their cos-
tume. Darkening your skin isn’t cool; it harkens back to when blackface was used for minstrel shows. Similarly, 
dressing as a Native American is insensitive to their cul-
ture, which was trampled on and remains largely ignored to this day. These costumes parody, rather than honor, other cultures because they act as hollow interpretations that are rooted in assumption, not actual knowledge.
The sexy geisha costumes, for example, perpetuate the 
stereotype that the geishas were prostitutes and further eroticizes them. It’s not “just a costume” because these are real cultures that are misrepresented and needlessly 
sexualized.
That being said, dressing as someone of another race 
does not HAVE to be offensive. There are distinctive char-
acteristics that go beyond race. When Julianne Hough dressed as Crazy Eyes from “Orange is the New Black” just 
a few years ago, she did not have to darken her skin in 
order for us to know who she was dressing up as because Crazy Eyes has very distinct hair.
When someone uses blackface to depict a ﬁ  ctional 
character, they are saying the most distinctive quality of a person is their skin. Dressing as a speciﬁ  c person or char-acter is different than just dressing as the representation of an entire culture, like the “Chinaman” or “Bollywood Beauty” costumes that are so popular. When people wear 
these costumes, they are narrowing public perceptions of 
what those cultures truly are and stand for. In the process, people do not think about the fact that after Halloween, they will be able to take the costume off — after that, one 
does not have to deal with the everyday realities of the 
culture they temporarily adopted.
Instead of honoring a culture, these costumes reduce 
them to cheap laughs and amusement for the sake of hav-ing a “cool” costume. By making a skin color a costume, it 
essentially says it is an “other” and exotic.
Additionally, the use of racial caricatures as Halloween 
costumes demonstrates a profound lack of empathy. As an 
example, let’s consider the use of blackface: When some-
one wipes off that makeup, they no longer have to deal 
with the systemic racism and police brutality that many black people face every day. 
Wearing an insensitive caricature shows one has a lim-
ited understanding of that culture.
Going beyond cultural appropriation, costumes can be 
deeply misogynistic, like last year’s Ray Rice costumes, or this year’s Megyn Kelly bloody tampon costume. For those who say it’s “just a costume,” realize your choice in cos-
tume says a lot about you. If you dress like Ray Rice, that 
means you ﬁ  nd reducing domestic violence to a joke OK. If you dress like Megyn Kelly as a bloody tampon, it means you genuinely believe women are slaves to their emotions and are uncontrollable on their periods, lending validity to 
Donald Trump’s gross comments about Kelly.
Picking a thoughtful and inoffensive Halloween cos-
tume boils down to considering the implications of what 
you’re wearing. Why are there costumes based on an en-
tire culture, and what does this assume about that culture? 
Does the costume make fun of someone’s sexual orienta-tion or gender identity? And why does “sexy” need to be tacked on to that? 
All it involves is thinking beyond your own identity and 
how your actions could affect someone else.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.It’s not 'just a costume'Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
“The point is that Europe 
needs to act jointly to tackle 
the problem.”MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
By Charles Hatcher
Alligator Contributing Writer
University Avenue was devoid 
of cars Sunday.
Instead of driving, Gainesville 
residents spent the afternoon 
walking, biking and skateboard-ing downtown during the second annual Active Streets Gainesville 
event. 
University Avenue, from West 
Sixth Street to East Seventh Street, 
was lined with activities, presenta-tions and demonstrations. 
More than a thousand people 
attended the event, which was created to provide a sense of own-ership over Gainesville streets, 
according to the Active Streets Al-
liance’s website. 
Jill Guidera Brown, the director 
of policy and advocacy at Active Street Alliance, said the event was 
bigger than last year’s event. 
“The support from the commu-
nity, the reaction, after we had this 
huge success last year, has been 
great,” Brown said. “And there is a ton of support from the city, the 
Florida Department of Transporta-
tion, the county as well as over 100 
community partners that wanted to come out and participate.”
Flowers and quotes were scrib-
bled in chalk across the pavement 
on one section of the street. Aerial 
gymnasts performed an acrobatic show, swinging from ribbons and hoops. Children’s bikes, double-
decker bikes and even elephant 
bikes were among the many roll-ing leisurely around. 
The Boardr Gainesville,  a skate 
shop in downtown, set up ramps 
and rails outside for skateboard-
ers. 
Jared Currey ran the shop for 
the event and said the atmosphere 
was great for everybody, including 
local businesses.
“Good times, good vibes. Ev-
eryone is on the up-and-up,” Cur-rey said. 
    
All photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator StaffThe streets belong to us
ABOVE:
Nine-year-old Lexy Lopez (left) 
plays checkers with 10-year-old Scout Preston-Gage during Active Streets Gainesville. “We had to use the chess pieces to play checkers since there weren’t any checker boards, ” Lexy said.
MIDDLE LEFT:
Jeandona Doreste, a UF civil engineering senior, uses chalk to draw a lightbulb coming out of a faucet on the intersection of Main Street and East Uni-versity Avenue. “Whenever I have the freedom to draw what I want, I tend to do what first comes to my mind, ” said Dor-este, who has come to Active Streets Gainesville for the past two years.  
BOTTOM LEFT:
Santa Fe College liberal arts graduate Juliana Richards, 22, balances on top of Cassie Catania, a 25-year-old UF clini-cal and health psychology re-search coordinator, during Ac-tive Streets Gainesville. Both women practice their acroyoga with S-Connection Aerial Arts five days a week. “I just wanted to dress up as a Tigger flyer, ” Richards said.
Cody Wilber, a Santa Fe Col-lege astronomy junior, skate-boards over a ramp during the Active Streets Gainesville event. Wilber said he has been skating since he was 3, but he didn’t get serious about the sport until he was 13.
T om D’Angelo, chemist at Advanced Environmental Labo-ratories, aims for the ball in a game of bike polo on Sunday. D’Angelo said he plays on the Gainesville Bicycle Polo All-Star team every Tuesday at the parking garage on top of Volta Coffee, T ea and Chocolate.
Lauris Vidal plays guitar and drums for his one-man band at the Solar Stage near Southwest First Street and East University Avenue on Sunday. He describes his tunes as a signature brand of “kitchen sink beat blues” and plays a variety of instruments ranging from the ukulele to the banjo.Layla Daily, 9, hula hoops and eats Dirty salt-and-vinegar chips at Ac-tive Streets Gainesville on Sunday. Her mother, Shani Daily, said Layla has been hula-hooping for a couple of years. “She just started getting really good at it this year, ” said Daily, a UF professor in the Depart-ment of Computer and Information Science and Engineering.MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
WANTED: Serious student for peace & 
quiet. Private 1BR, unfurnished, garage apt in town, NW Gainesville. $525/mo. Call 376-6294    10-19-5-2
MUST SEE-3/2 house minutes from UF and Shands.Beautiful inside - upgraded kitchen with granite and stainless steel appliances, large fenced in back yard. $1400. 727-512-2468. Available immediately.    10-20-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-23-15-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
Girls Place is Your First Place to Make a Difference! Now hiring CDL drivers, af-ter school counselors and tutors. Visit GirlsPlace.net for details. @girlsplaceinc    10-21-15-5-14
ACROSS
1 Rifle filler
5 Campus bigwigs
10 Ending for brides,
chamber or milk
14 Teller of fibs15 Humanlike
machine of sci-fi
16 Edit menu option
17 Presidency’s last
days, e.g.
19 ’90s TV title toon
teen
20 Attaches with
string
21 Prefix with deed
or lead
23 Quaint lodging
24 Six-pack muscles25 Pre-cable
reception aid
29 Stop for a
moment
31 Abolish32 Leading the field33 Three: Pref.
34 Rapper __ Kim
35 PC key near Ctrl36 Anonymous
writer, maybe,
and a hint to the
devotee hidden
in 17-, 25-, 50-
and 60-Across
41 Kit__: candy bar42 “Bossypants”
memoirist Tina
43 “__ you ready?”44 Fire-setting
crime
47 Boxing count48 Gets a glimpse of50 Commentator
dissecting chipsand putts
53 Bro or sis54 Expected landing
hr.
55 Wobbly walker56 Green film on
bronze
58 Clear liquors60 Usual sitcom
length (includingads)
63 First chip in a pot64 “In other words ... ”65 Cabinet dept.
concerned withnukes
66 Leaning Tower
city
67 Stadium levels68 __ buco: veal
dishDOWN
1 Brewpub fixture
2 Typically 18-inch-
long baseballcollectibles
3 Double-checked4 Gold medals, to
Spaniards
5 Pipe clog
dissolver
6 Scads of
centuries
7 Prez on a penny8 Painter Rockwell9 A red wine one is
hard to get out
10 Stick-in-the-__11 Consecrate using
oil
12 “Beats me”13 Steal a pup18 Links warning22 Vodka order,
familiarly
26 Memorial
column, for short
27 Pita filling28 Catch in a sting30 Bored with34 Permit
35 “Trainwreck”
actress/
screenwriterSchumer
37 Attacked on foot38 Reject as false39 Causes of
disappearingbeaches
40 Entourages
44 Issue in May-
December
romances
45 Spiral pasta46 Slopes47 Japanese floor mat48 Laurel of Laurel
and Hardy49 “Handmade fresh
all day” pizza
chain
51 Like three Cy
Young games
52 Bridge measures
57 “The Cosby
Show” son
59 Baltic or Aegean
61 Sara whom
“nobody doesn’t
like”
62 At a distance
By C.C. Burnikel©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/1510/19/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 19, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. Who was the first designated 
hitter to hit a home run in 1973, the 
debut year for the DH in the American 
League?
2. How many managers did the Chi-
cago Cubs have during the 1990s?
3. Entering 2015, who held the Ohio 
State record for most TD passes in one 
game?
4. Of Charles Barkley and Michael 
Jordan, which one attempted more 
3-point shots during his NBA career?
5. Which goaltender has record-
ed the most saves in a season for the 
Tampa Bay Lightning?
6. During the 1990s, three drivers 
won the Indianapolis 500 after start-
ing in the pole position. Name two of 
them.
7. Who was the last Japanese men’s 
tennis player to reach the semifinals 
of the French Open?
Answers
1. Minnesota’s Tony Oliva, against 
Oakland.
2. Six — Don Zimmer (1990-91), 
Joe Altobelli (‘91), Jim Essian (‘91), Jim Lefebvre (1992-93), Tom Tre-belhorn (1994) and Jim Riggleman 
(1995-99).
3. Kenny Guiton threw six against 
Florida A&M in 2013, and J.T. Bar -
rett did the same against Kent State in 
2014.
4. Barkley attempted 2,020 (making 
538); Jordan, 1,778 (making 581).
5. Nikolai Khabibulin had 1,761 
saves in the 2001-02 season.
6. Rick Mears (1991), Al Unser Jr. 
(1994) and Arie Luyendyk (1997).
7. Jiro Sato, in 1933.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 19, 2015 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
ACROSS
1 Really frighten
17 2010
Eminem/Rihann
a #1 hit with thelyric “Just gonnastand there andhear me cry”
18 “Despicable Me
2” company
19 Something to
grab
20 Eponymous
magazinefounder Eric
21 Ruler’s domain?
22 Barred furniture
24 Finely contoured27 God, in a midrash30 Pickup spots?34 City with a
Pumpkin Run
classic car show
36 Baguette
surfaces
38 Angry Birds
sequel setting
39 Valuable deposit
40 From square
one, to Severus
41 Shock42 One may be
blonde
43 Hard44 Fortune’s 2012
Businessperson
of the Year
45 Badly
deteriorated
47 Complete
49 Uber51 Means53 Grand Canyon
ride
56 Quantum theory
pioneer
59 GI chow61 Elgar work with
an as yetunsolvedmusical theme
65 Threat in Season
3 of “24”
66 Ways to get high
DOWN
1 Musical
connector
2 Like certain
parlor containers
3 Real page-
turner?
4 Wake-up call5 Nice time for
toasting
6 Robin’s family7 “I have broke
your __ to sayso!”: “TheTempest”8 Obi-Wan
portrayer
9 Doesn’t measure
up
10 Shakespearean
cries
11 News initials
since 1851
12 British classic
cars
13 Typically 81-digit
diversion
14 Omnium-
gatherum
15 Verizon bundle
16 Film follower?23 Zookeeper’s
main squeeze?
25 Square, in ’50s
slang, as shownby a four-fingered gesture
26 __-1:
“Ghostbusters”car
28 Should it happen
that
29 Locks in a
paddock
31 Hard-hit liner, in
baseball lingo
32 Spanakopita
dough
33 They’re often lit
34 Norwegian saint
35 Fountain output37 Fruit remnant40 Depressed
area?
41 Prolonged
lament
43 Builder of
Jerusalem’s First
Temple
44 Worth writing
home about
46 Fountain output
48 1943 Pacific
island battle site
50 The Bahamas’
__ Islands52 Barbershop part53 Actress Neuwirth
54 OS X basis
55 Shields may be
used in one
57 Operation Torch
target
58 Way up60 Phishers’ fodder:
Abbr.
62 DOJ pooh-bahs
63 180 degrees
from I
64 2012 film bear
By David Steinberg(c)2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/17/1510/17/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 17, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
15 Services 18 Personals 24 Pets
Headline
Story description Pg#
JC Deacon and the Florida 
men's golf team sits in 12th place after the ﬁ  rst round of the T avistock Collegiate in Windermere, Florida. Read the story on pg. 16. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators fall ﬁ  ve spots in AP Poll.
The Florida football team dropped ﬁ  ve spots in the AP Poll from No. 8 to 
No. 13 following the Gators 35-28 loss to LSU on Saturday in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. BATON ROUGE, La.  
After Satur-
day’s loss to LSU, Florida has no right to even men-
tion the title of “DBU.” 
Before the season, 
the Gators’ secondary made the claim that it was “Defensive Back University,” otherwise known as the school with the best coverage unit in col-lege football. 
The players even got in a war 
of words with LSU’s secondary over who should hold the honor during the Summer.
Now, that all seems laughable.Throughout the season, the UF defensive backs have continued to claim to be the best and most talented in the nation.
On one count, 
they’re right.
Yes, the Gators 
have all the talent in the world in their de-fensive backﬁ  eld. 
But talent doesn’t produce re-
sults.
LSU came into Saturday night’s 
matchup against Florida ranked last in the Southeastern Confer-ence in passing offense and 122nd nationally. 
However, that didn’t stop 
quarterback Brandon Harris from Loss proves Gators' secondary 
is not worthy of DBU titleBy Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
BATON ROUGE, La. — For weeks, Flori-
da had heard the hype surrounding LSU run-
ning back Leonard Fournette.
And on Saturday, the Gators realized it 
wasn’t all for naught: The sophomore is a legitimate Heisman Trophy frontrunner and 
arguably the greatest backﬁ  eld force to daz-zle the collegiate landscape since Adrian Pe-
terson wowed en mass at Oklahoma.
The question ‘how do you overcome 
Fournette’ was unavoidable in the days pre-ceding Florida’s top-10 matchup with the Ti-
gers, with no afﬁ  rmative answer given.
As it turned out, the Gators couldn’t.
“Stop the run, stop Fournette,” corner-
back Brian Poole said following UF’s 35-28 
loss. “It was tough…he’s a great player.”
Fournette gashed Florida to the tune of 
180 yards with two touchdowns on 31 car-ries — staggering numbers that seem aver-
age considering the peaks the New Orleans 
native had reached in the ﬁ  rst half of the season.
To say he’s dominated and carried the Ti-
gers to their status as a national champion-ship contender might be an understatement.
Through six games, Fournette has aver-
aged an otherworldly 200.3 yards per con-test, topping the thousand-yard plateau Florida fails to stop LSU running back Leonard Fournette
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
LSU running back Leonard Fournette carries the ball during Florida's 35-28 loss to LSU on Saturday at Tiger Stadium in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana. Fournette had 180 rushing yards and two touchdowns in the Tigers' win. 
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
After dropping its last meeting 
with Kentucky in September, Flor-
ida sought redemption on Sunday.
Behind a strong defensive out-
ing, UF accomplished its goal.
The No. 17 ranked Gators vol-
leyball team (13-4, 5-3 Southeast-
ern Conference) beat the No. 20 
Wildcats 22-25, 25-21, 25-22, 25-
20 in a showdown that featured two of the SEC’s top teams. 
Rhamat Alhassan played like 
an All-American, Alex Holston had one of her most efﬁ  cient hit-
ting performances this season and 
the defense put on another stellar performance to propel the Gators to victory. 
The Gators’ defense carried 
them in an ugly game. While 
Florida posted 
a .237 hitting 
percentage as a 
team, Kentucky 
hit a lowly .167. 
UK was the third opponent 
in a row that 
the Gators have held under a .200 
team hitting clip. 
Much of UF’s defensive domi-
nance can be attributed to the team’s size up front, highlighted 
by middle blocker Rhamat Alhas-
san. 
The sophomore posted 12 kills and 10 blocks against Kentucky, Alhassan’s third game this season 
with double digit blocks. 
Mackenzie Dagostino contrib-
uted seven blocks, and the team’s total of 17 marks was a season-
high. 
Kentucky (13-6, 6-1 SEC) got 
off to a hot start, bursting out of the gates on a 9-3 run and main-taining that lead throughout the 
ﬁ  rst set. Whenever Florida drew 
close, the Wildcats pulled away and eventually won 25-22. 
Down by two in the second set, 
the Gators went on a 10-2 run to establish the set’s ﬁ  rst solid lead. 
Not folding easily, Kentucky 
responded with a 7-1 run to knot the score at 16. Florida was able to 
re-focus, however, pulling away to Defense leads UF volleyball in winSEE FOURNETTE,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15Gators win four in a row
Wise
JUST SOME HACK
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2414   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
The Tigers limited UF to just 55 rushing 
yards and 1.8 yards per carry.
“They played really hard,” said UF run-
ning back Kelvin Taylor, who was limited 
to 25 yards on 15 carries. “They played well. They played fast. It just wasn’t our 
night, really.”
With the run game non-existent, LSU 
forced UF quarterback Treon Harris — start-
ing his first game since the season opener 
for a suspended Will Grier — to make the plays if the Gators wanted a win, a game plan reversal UF couldn’t deliver.
While the sophomore had a respectable 
game on paper — completing 17 of his 32 pass attempts for 271 yards and two touch-downs — he stumbled when it mattered.
In UF’s final two drives with less than four minutes to play — its last two opportu-
nities to tie the game — Harris went a com-
bined 2-of-10 for 40 yards.
“The guy did a good job,” McElwain 
said. “He’s going to want some plays back, as a lot of our guys will on both sides of the ball. … He’ll come back and play better next week.”
The loss stings, but McElwain praised 
his team’s resiliency.
Twice the Gators (6-1, 4-1 SEC) trailed 
by two touchdowns, and twice they fought back.
After falling behind 21-7 in the second 
quarter, Florida cut the deficit in half with a 19-yard touchdown from Treon Harris to Jake McGee, the second touchdown con-nection between the tandem on Saturday.
When LSU pushed the score to 28-14 
at halftime, UF responded with 14 un-answered points in the third quarter — a 2-yard rushing touchdown by junior tail-
back Kelvin Taylor and a 72-yard Antonio 
Callaway punt return.
“I liked the fight the team stayed with,” 
McGee said. “… It’s something we’ve had all year: improve each game, a no-quit at-titude. We really played all out to the end.”
Callaway’s punt return — the first by a 
UF true freshman in an SEC game — set the stage for the Gators’ biggest second-half 
comeback since being down by 18 to Ken-
tucky in 2003.
LSU had other plans, with the kicker 
scoring a game-winning touchdown off a fake field goal in the fourth quarter.
“Our guys are disappointed,” McElwain 
said. “But as I told them, it ain’t about be-ing disappointed. It’s about learning from the experience.”
Even with the loss, the Gators still hold 
sole possession on top of the SEC East, sporting a one-game advantage over Geor-
gia (5-2, 3-2 SEC) as UF heads into its only 
bye of the season.
The Gators can seal up their half of the 
conference and their first trip to Atlanta since 2009 with a win against the Bulldogs on Oct. 31 and one more conference victory in the ensuing two weeks — a home game against Vanderbilt on Nov. 7 and a road trip to South Carolina on Nov. 14.
“We’re going to be fine,” Taylor said. “It 
is what it is. It’s a tough pill to swallow but we’re going to regroup.”
And as the Gators regroup, their focus 
will be on what’s to come. They don’t plan to live in the past.
“Our team handled this week. That’s the 
way it works,” McElwain said. “If you’re going to cry over spilled milk all day long 
you’re not going to be worth a heck doing 
anything.”
FOOTBALL,  from pg1The Gators still lead the SEC East despite first loss of season
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway lies on the ground after failing to catch a pass near the endzone in 
the waning seconds of Saturday’s game.
RIGHT:
UF running back Kelvin T aylor carries the ball. T aylor gained 25 yards on 15 carries in the loss to the Tigers.
BELOW:
UF quarterback Treon Harris winds up to throw. Harris, who started his first game since Florida’s season opener, threw for 271 yards and two touchdowns on 17-of-32 passing.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF tight end Jake McGee (83) catches his first touchdown pass in the first quarter against LSU. McGee caught two touchdown passes during the game.
Ariana Figueroa / Alligator StaffAriana Figueroa / Alligator StaffMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
before the midway point of the 
season. 
Considering the Tigers con-
sistently face opponents, like the Gators, who structure their defen-
sive game plan around stopping 
him, it’s easy to see why players and pundits alike have heaped 
praise on a man who’s grand-
mother adoringly labeled him ‘Button’ for his button nose.
Florida had emphasized gang 
tackling him, throwing as many guys at him as possible.
But even that didn’t work.“We knew the type of back 
that he was,” safety Marcus Maye 
said. “We just tried to hit him ev-
ery play and drive him back a few times.”
With Florida entering a week 
of practice focused on correct-ing details — a bye on Saturday 
gives UF 12 days to salivate at 
the thought of playing a depleted Georgia team in Jacksonville — 
the Gators can observe film and 
make corrections to better defend against the run.
But for now, the team can take 
solace in the likelihood that no other running back on the up-
coming schedule should manhan-
dle the Gators like Fournette did.
The Bulldogs will be without 
sophomore Nick Chubb, who suffered damage to multiple ligaments in his left knee in the 
team’s first play from scrimmage against Tennessee on Oct. 10 and will be out for the rest of the sea-
son.
And while Sony Michel filled 
in effectively with 87 yards on Saturday against Missouri — a barnburner 9-6 win for Georgia 
that played like a public service 
announcement for the impor-tance of having a reliable kicker 
— his game experience and talent 
dwarfs in comparison to Chubb and Fournette.
“LSU got a monster in the 
backfield,” UF running back Kel-vin Taylor. “I feel like the defense 
played a great game, but it was 
just an all-around team loss.
“We didn’t convert when we 
needed to convert on offense. The defense needed them to get off the field, we couldn’t get them 
off the field.”
Florida proved its heralded de-
fense can be gashed by a talented running back, and if the Gators 
have truly returned to the South-eastern Conference’s elite, coach 
Jim McElwain must prepare the 
team as if every running back re-maining on the schedule has the 
ability to torch UF like Fournette 
did in Death Valley.
However, McElwain was un-
derstandably disappointed the Gators couldn’t do something that no team has done this sea-
son: shut down Fournette.
“We’re disappointed. We 
expected to come in and win,” McElwain said. “Every game we 
play, we expect to win.”FOURNETTE,  from pg 13McElwain said run 
defense needs to improve
exploiting the Gators’ secondary for 
202 yards and two touchdowns on 13-of-19 passing, most of which came in the first half.
Despite the fact that Harris was 
supposed to be the weak link in the Tigers’ offense, he picked apart the Gators, finding wide receivers Travin Dural and Malachi Dupre in huge cov-erage holes down the field.
It wasn’t as if he was throwing 
passes into ultra-tight windows. 
He simply found the open receivers 
and put the ball on the money.
If you claim to be the top coverage 
unit in college football, that can’t hap-pen, especially if you know you need to hold your own while the linebackers focus on stopping — or slowing down — running back Leonard Fournette.
Senior Brian Poole got beat across 
the middle on numerous occasions. Plays which would have ended drives if defended correctly, but instead ex-tended them.
Sophomore Quincy Wilson com-
pletely misplayed the ball on a pass from Harris which the cornerback was in perfect position to defend. Instead, the pass was completed for a touch-down.
When your team scores 28 points 
and your defensive front does a decent job of not letting Fournette explode on them for a 200-plus yard day, you can’t afford errors like that.
By the time the second half rolled 
around, the secondary had either fig-ured something out, had a fire lit un-der it or both.If you say you’re the best in the 
country, you can’t take a half off.
It’s not something new, either.Despite the hype, Florida entered 
Saturday night ranked 43rd in the country in passing defense, good for just seventh in the SEC. 
Teams known for high-powered 
offense and questionable defense like Texas A&M and Oklahoma State are ahead of the Gators. Heck, they’re even behind Wake Forest.
For Florida to be a serious contend-
er to win, not play in, an SEC Champi-onship, and maybe even challenge for a spot in the College Football Playoff, the secondary has to live up to the bill-ing it gave itself.
So far, it hasn’t. And until it does, 
Florida’s defensive backs need to shut up about being the best and prove it on the field.
RIGHT:
LSU quarterback Brandon Harris throws to Travin Dural during the Tigers' 35-28 win over the Gators on Saturday at Tiger Stadium in Ba-ton Rouge, Louisiana. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffCOLUMN,  from pg 13win the set 25-21 and tie the match 
at one game apiece. 
The game’s most pivotal mo-mentum shift came in the third 
set with the Gators trailing 22-18. 
Not wanting to lose the swing set, 
Florida went on a 7-0 hot streak to win 25-22.The difference in being up 2-1 as 
opposed to down 2-1 is significant. 
This season, the Gators improved to 
4-0 in matches in which they have won the third set in a tie game. 
For the rest of the match, the 
Wildcats were unable to recover losing the third set. 
After trading points early on, 
the Gators took control. An Alex Holston kill buried the final hatchet 
and gave Florida the victory, 25-20. 
The win was also the fifteenth 
match this season in which Florida tallied the most blocks. UF is 11-4 
in those contests. 
Florida’s back row defense has 
been a source of consistency during its four game winning streak. 
Sophomore Carli Snyder com-
piled a career-best 17 digs, while senior Ziva Recek had 13. Recek also had 10 kills, good enough to 
give her 23 career double-doubles. 
Coach Mary Wise noted the 
team’s recent improvement. 
“The numbers tell the story of 
how much better we have gotten 
over the past month,” Wise said in 
a release.
“Our players in double-digit 
kills, the things we couldn’t do a month ago. We are improving in 
the areas we have to with half the season still to go.”
The victory was UF’s 50th all-
time win in this one-sided rivalry. The Gators are 50-11 against the 
Wildcats. 
With the win, Florida improved 
to 4-2 versus ranked opponents this season. 
The Gators return home to face 
Arkansas on Friday at 7 p.m. on the SEC Network. UF is 11-4 when out-blocking opp osition
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan swings for a kill during Florida's 
3-0 win against T exas A&M on Oct. 9 in the O'Connell Center.
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg 13
"For Florida to be a 
serious contender to 
win, not play in, an 
SEC Championship, and 
maybe even challenge 
for a spot in the College 
Football Playoff, the 
secondary has to live 
up to the billing it gave 
itself."By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
Two Gators advanced to their respective 
ﬁ  nals draws taking place today after a week-
end of play at the Ring Tennis Complex.
The men’s tennis team hosted the USTA/
ITA Southeast Regional Championships with 
nine Gators competing in the tournament.
Senior Diego Hidalgo will be playing in 
the singles ﬁ  nals of the tournament today 
against No.1-seeded Roberto Cid from USF. 
Hidalgo and senior Gordon Watson will 
also be competing in the doubles main draw semiﬁ  nals today. 
Hidalgo beat Georgia Tech’s Christopher 
Eubanks in a three sets, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4, to 
move on to the semiﬁ  nals. 
In the semiﬁ  nals Hidalgo faced off against 
teammate sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco 
with Hidalgo coming out victorious 6-2, 6-1.
Hidalgo and Watson defeated Eubanks 
and Nathan Rakitt of Georgia Tech 8-5 in the quarterﬁ  nals. 
The doubles duo will play in the semiﬁ  -
nals today to determine who moves on to the ﬁ  nals. 
They will be up against the No.1 ranked 
doubles team in the country in Georgia’s Ben Wagland and Austin Smith.
Senior Elliott Orkin took down Smith, 
3-6, 6-4, 2-0, in the quarterﬁ  nals Sunday. The match ended with a default by Smith in the third set of the match.
Orkin would then play Cid in a hard 
fought semiﬁ  nals match. Orkin was defeated 7-6, 6-2.  
Cid will face Hidalgo in the ﬁ  nals of 
the singles main draw. Hidalgo will be the  fourth UF player Cid will see in the tourna-ment. 
In the second day of play freshman Al-
fredo Perez defeated Florida Atlantic’s An-thony Schohn 7-5, 6-2. Cid defeated Perez 6-2, 7-6 in the round of 32. 
Perez would come back in the second set 
and force a tiebreak out of Cid, but eventu-ally Perez would fall. 
The Gators will continue ﬁ  nals and semi-
ﬁ  nals play today at the Ring Tennis Com-plex before moving on to the Southeastern Conference Fall Event in Auburn, Alabama this Friday. 16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF senior Diego Hidalgo hits an open-stance forehand during the singles semiﬁ  nals of 
the USTA/ITA Southeast Regional Championships on Sunday at the Ring T ennis Complex.
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
On a 7544-yard golf course, the 
Gators found themselves starting off 
on the wrong foot.
No. 18 Florida ended round one 
of the Tavistock Collegiate on Sun-
day at a combined 15-over par and 
in 12th place out of 15 schools. 
UF will look to dig itself out of the 
hole in rounds two and three today and tomorrow at the Isleworth Coun-try Club in Windermere, Florida. 
Rough starts aren’t anything new 
for coach JC Deacon and the Gators. UF also ﬁ  nished its previous opening round at an uninspiring 7-over par in 
the Jerry Pate National on Oct. 5.
“I think we are all really disap-
pointed with today,” Deacon said in 
a release. 
“We didn’t come ready to play. 
We’ve been struggling this year get-ting off to good starts and it kind of reared its head again today.”
Alejandro Tosti (T30) had both 
the Gators’ best score and best sto-ryline of the opening round. After shooting a 7 on the par-3 second hole, Tosti came back to ﬁ  nish the day with nothing but pars and two birdies. “He obviously got off to a horren-
dous start, but he kept it in perspec-
tive and realized that he had a lot of 
holes left,” Deacon said. 
“He played about as good as any-
one in the ﬁ  eld the last 16 holes of the day. I’m really proud of him, and I know he’s going to keep it up the next two days.”
Freshman Jorge Garcia and junior 
Ryan Orr are each tied for 49th, both 
scoring 4-over 76s. 
Freshman Sam Horsﬁ  eld, who 
has two top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes through 
his ﬁ  rst three tournaments, started off with back-to-back birdies, but cooled down and closed the day with a 5-over 77.
As a team, California leads the 
tournament at 9-under par with all players in the top 20. No. 24 South Carolina is in second at 4-under, and No. 17 Arizona State follows at 3-un-der. 
Individually, Cal’s Collin Mori-
kawa holds the outright lead after shooting a 5-under 67. Dylan Meyer of Illinois and Max Rottluff of ASU ﬁ  nished tied for second at 4-under. 
Just outside of Orlando, Isleworth 
is a de facto home course for the Gators. Earlier in the week, Deacon stressed the importance of stay-ing focused with friends and family around. 
And on Sunday, Deacon con-
ﬁ  rmed his suspicions that distrac-tions outside of Orlando could affect 
the team.
“I don’t think our focus level was 
quite where it needed to be before 
the tournament,” Deacon said. 
“We’ll come back better tomor-
row.”
Gators in 12th place after ﬁ  rst round of Orlando tourneyMEN’S GOLF
Senior tennis player advances to singles ﬁ  nals, doubles semis“(Tosti) obviously got of to a 
horrendous start, but he kept 
it in perspective and realized 
that he had a lot of holes left.”
JC Deacon
UF men’s golf coach