We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 2 TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
Florida preaching importance 
of conﬁ  dence to receivers
Players say coaching has improved, pg. 13
Outback Steakhouse changes location
It moved down Archer Road from Butler Plaza, pg. 3
Gainesville Crime Roundup 
Aggravated battery, sexual assault and robbery charges in 
Gainesville, pg. 5Follow us on social media
For the latest updates, ‘like’ us on Facebook 
and follow us on Twitter (@TheAlligator) and 
Instagram (@TheAlligator_).
Aaron Albright / Alligator
FRISBEE AND FREEZE POPS
Chris Oster (left), 18, a UF chemical engineering freshman, passes the disc during a game of Ultimate Frisbee 
on Monday night on Flavet Field. The Navigators, a Christian student organization, hosted the “Frisbee and Freeze Pops” event, where students ate freeze pops and played Ultimate Frisbee. See more photos on page 8.By Ariella Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
This semester, students have one fewer 
option for getting home safely.
The University Police’s Walk Safe pro-
gram is no longer running due to a lack of 
funding.
The university is currently focusing on 
other ways to increase nighttime safety, 
said Jen Day Shaw, associate vice president 
of student affairs and dean of students.While she said she hopes the school res-
urrects the program, which provided door-
to-door service for students living on cam-
pus and Sorority Row, it was only funded through the Spring semester. The school’s current priority is continuing to offer dis-
counted rides through Uber, she said.
All enhanced measures following last 
September’s string of assaults, except Walk 
Safe, will remain, she said. UF increased the number of Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol vans and Later Gator buses.
She said she recommends making a plan 
with friends before walking home and said she hopes reinforcing the “U Matter, We Care” message of making good choices will serve as a reminder for students to be care-
ful.“I just believe if we look out for each 
other, that goes a long way,” Day Shaw 
said.
Michelle Tapia, a UF journalism and 
theatre sophomore, worked as a supervisor 
for Walk Safe last Spring. She said she is 
disappointed to see it discontinued.
The program was more intimate than 
taking SNAP or the bus, the 19-year-old 
said.
“It’s comforting to know if you’re out 
late studying, that there would be a pair of 
students waiting to walk you to your car or home,” she said.Walk Safe program discontinued for Fall
STATE
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
As the St. Augustine City 
Commission debated a landown-
er’s proposal for development in a meeting Monday night, com-munity members discussed the use of a study conducted by UF professors in the debate.
The study, conducted by ﬁ  ve 
UF professors, supports a pro-posal to develop a boutique ho-tel, the Cordova Inn, in an area concentrated with historic build-ings. Reportedly commissioned by St. Augustine City Commis-sioner Nancy Sikes-Kline as an outside opinion, the study states the proposal would provide a unique opportunity to restore an important group of neglected historical buildings. The report also said the inn would have a high value for St. Johns County and promote attention to his-toric preservation and generate high tax revenues to the local economy.
The commission voted 4-1 to 
approve the applications with certain amendments regarding parking and other concerns.
Many residents who spoke at 
the meeting felt that the opinion from UF had no place in the de-bate.  
“The University of Florida did 
a study that I feel focuses more on proﬁ  t and a certain type of beneﬁ  t to the community,” said Ellie Sanborn, a St. Augustine resident, during the meeting. “But what about the value to the residents?”
Sikes-Kline reportedly com-
missioned the report from ﬁ  ve  UF profs’ study sparks 
St. Augustine debate
THE OFFICIAL CEREMONY WILL 
BE IN SEPTEMBER
By Gabriella Nuñez
Alligator Staff Writer
McCarty Hall has a friendly neighbor: UF’s 
new Field and Fork Campus Food Program.
Although it has been operating since Sum-
mer B, the ofﬁ  cial ribbon-cutting ceremony 
and open house will be held at the food pantry Sept. 1 at 10 a.m.
The pantry is meant to combat food inse-
curities with healthy and wholesome food op-tions, said Nardin Derias, a student senator for the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences.
Derias said there are a lot of students who don’t have access to food, a basic necessity.
Students and faculty are encouraged to take 
any food and toiletries they need from the pan-try. All that’s asked of them is that they bring their Gator 1 Card.
“We’ve been raising awareness speciﬁ  cally 
through social media about the programs and 
other resources,” Derias said.
UF biology senior Michelle Nguyen said 
sometimes shame is associated with ﬁ  nancial 
need.  She said students should use resources if they need to.“You might not necessarily be a homeless 
student, but there may be a stage in your life that you’re without food,” the 22-year-old said.
According to the UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences, 10 percent of students have so little food that it distracts from their studies
“We’re all part of The Gator Nation,” De-
rias said. “We come together in catastrophe. This isn’t any different. To see all of the de-partments come together for the Gator good is amazing to me.”UF Field and Fork Pantry opens, ﬁ  ghts food insecurity SEE HISTORIC,  PAGE 4“It’s comforting to know if you’re out 
late studying, that there would be a 
pair of students waiting to walk you to 
your car or home.”
Michelle T apia
UF journalism and theatre sophomoreOther enhanced measures remain
“W e’ve been raising awareness speciically 
through social media about the programs 
and other resources.”
Nardin Derias
UF student senatorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights 
GatorNights will kick off the 
Fall semester with Hidden 
Stages, a music festival themed 
event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature live music 
from Evan Taylor and Duke, 
free food, henna tattoos and more. GatorNights will also be host-ing two showings of the movie 
“Jurassic World” at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with a comedy show 
from Jerrod Carmichael,  sup-
porting actor in the movie “Neighbors” and star of NBC’s “The Carmichael Show.”
Explore the Outdoors
Outdoor Adventure Recreation (OAR) is holding a meeting 6:30 p.m. Thursday (and sub-
sequent Thursdays) in Yon 
Hall. Hiking the Appalachian Mountains, caving and tub-ing in Tennessee, road trip-ping to spectacular sites in the 
Southwest, paddling and rope 
swinging on the Suwannee, exploring countries in the Caribbean and even weekly 
climbing and ultimate Frisbee 
are all real possibilities with OAR. Come to the first meeting to discover how you can explore 
the outdoors, embark on ad-
ventures and master recreation skills. Go to ufadventure.com to join the organization, sign 
up for upcoming trips and find 
more information.
STATE
Gov. Scott orders random 
hospital audits
TALLAHASSEE — Gov. Rick 
Scott is ordering state health officials to audit more than 100 
hospitals as part of his ongoing 
battle with hospitals, which he says are driving up Medicaid costs.
The state had asked hospitals 
and insurers to prove that their contracts aren’t charging rates higher than 120 percent of the Medicaid rate. But Scott said 
roughly 130 hospitals didn’t 
comply and would be audited. The Republican governor also said in a statement Monday 
that all hospitals would be ran-
domly audited.Scott is locked in intense ne-gotiations with insurers that could undermine the fledgling 
Medicaid managed care pro-
gram. Insurers want a raise, saying they’re not making enough, but Scott doesn’t want 
to put any more state dollars 
into the program.Lawmakers already gave hos-pitals $400 million this year to bump up Medicaid reimburse-
ment rates.
Hospital officials did not im-mediately comment Monday.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Young dolphin found dead, 
tail wrapped in fishing line 
COCOA BEACH — Dolphin 
rescuers in Central Florida are urging people to recycle their 
fishing gear after a young dol-
phin was found dead with a fishing line wrapped around its tail.
The animal’s body was discov-
ered Monday in the Banana River off Cocoa Beach.Megan Stolen, a research scientist with the Hubbs-
SeaWorld Research Institute 
in Melbourne Beach, says the dolphin had probably been entangled for at least a week. 
Rescuers are urging people not 
to discard their lines near the water.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
FSU running back not guilty of 
punching woman outside of bar
TALLAHASSEE — Florida State 
running back Dalvin Cook was found not guilty Monday of 
punching a woman in the face 
outside a bar in June after she engaged in a shouting match 
with him and his teammates.
It took the seven-member jury only about 20 minutes to de-liver its verdict after a one-day 
trial that included the testi-
mony of the alleged victim, one of her friends and several of Cook's teammates. Cook had been charged with misde-
meanor battery.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
INTERNATIONAL
Japan delivers whiskey to 
space station for science 
CAPE CANAVERAL — Spirits 
arrived at the International Space Station on Monday. Not 
the ghostly ones, but the kind you drink — distilled spirits.
The six astronauts won’t be 
sneaking a sip. It’s all for sci-
ence.A Japanese company known for its whiskey and other al-
coholic beverages included 
five types of distilled spirits in a space station cargo ship. The station’s big robotic arm — operated by Japanese as-
tronaut Kimiya Yui — grabbed 
onto the supply craft launched Wednesday by his homeland. Flight controllers helped an-
chor it down.
The supply ship contains near-ly 10,000 pounds of cargo, in-cluding the six liquor samples. Suntory Global Innovation 
Center in Tokyo wants to see 
if alcoholic beverages mellow the same in space as they do on Earth. The samples will be 
used for experiments and will 
spend at least a year in orbit before being returned to Earth. 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publica-tion in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 
4 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events and keep them 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
Florida SB 68, if passed, would only call for concealed carry of firearms on campus, not open 
carry. The Alliagtor reported 
otherwise in a story published Aug. 24 under the headline "Legislation concerning guns 
on campus back in Senate." 
Also from the same story, Student for Concealed Carry president Joshua Roe carries a firearm because it "helps to 
balance potential power dis-
parities and provides a means of self protection." VOLUME 110 ISSUE 2
HIGH  95° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca KravetzTUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Outback Steakhouse restau-
rant is staying true to their slogan 
and keeping things fresh with a 
new location.
While the new Archer Road 
building is within walking dis-
tance of its former location in But-
ler Plaza, the restaurant will open 
the doors to a new, redesigned “modern Australian” building.
“We’re moving to the new 
site because it’s an opportunity 
to build on a more contemporary 
design,” said Crafton Bryant, the marketing manager for new res-taurant openings at Bloomin’ 
Brands, the company that owns 
Outback Steakhouse and other restaurant chains.
With the new building, Bryant 
said, Outback will have more vis-
ibility to Archer and the guests 
coming from the Interstate.
“It’s an enhancement to the 
old Outback,” he said. “A new 
Outback experience with the 
same great food.”
Courtney Friedman, 21, has 
spent her birthday each year at various Outback restaurants as 
part of a family tradition. 
Though she was disappointed 
by the increased distance, she 
said she will still visit the restau-
rant.
“Every location feels like home 
to me,” the accounting senior 
said. “I have such great memories there with family and friends, and 
I will be stopping by sometime 
soon.”
While the grand opening 
Wednesday will feature a rib-
bon-cutting and event for the 
Gainesville Chamber of Com-merce, the restaurant will also be giving back. 
From 11 a.m. until 10 p.m., proceeds from sales will benefit the Alachua County Boys and Girls Club.
“We’re very excited,” said 
Scott Monnett, chief professional officer of Alachua County Boys and Girls Club. “It’s a great opportunity for an 
established business in our com-munity through their grand open-
ing and their new location,” he 
said.
“They’re giving back to our or-
ganization and to the lives of our 
youth -- that’s the extra added bo-
nus,” Monnett said.
John Hursh / Alligator
Outback Steakhouse will open its new building, located at 3770 SW 
Archer Road, on Wednesday.
CAMPUSOutback restaurant changes loca tion
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
afernandez@alligator.org
Samantha Miller’s curiosity led 
her to debunk more than 40 years 
of respected research. 
Miller, a 20-year-old UF busi-
ness management junior, was at a 
Florida Women in Business meet-
ing when UF director of business communication Fiona Barnes said something that piqued Miller’s in-terest. Barnes referenced a study in the book “Women Don’t Ask.” It claimed men are better negotiators than women. Miller was skeptical. 
“I hadn’t had similar experienc-
es, and I wanted to see if other stu-dents my age felt the same way,” she said. 
In hopes of conducting a study 
of her own, Miller contacted Jane Douglas, an associate business pro-fessor at UF. Douglas said she was impressed by Miller’s initiative. 
Miller pulled specific articles 
from “Women Don’t Ask” to ana-lyze, and she had even contacted the author of the study Barnes ref-erenced. 
“That’s the kind of thing you do 
if maybe you’re a very enterprising doctoral student,” said Douglas. “Most people just don’t get that detail-oriented, so that was the first 
thing that really struck me.” 
Douglas said she and Miller ini-
tially looked at the original study 
and noticed discrepancies between the subjects from which the au-thors of the study collected data.
Miller, who is also currently 
working toward a master’s degree, designed the questionnaire used in 
the recent study. 
“I cut her loose on it,” said 
Douglas. “That’s how smart she 
was.”
The last part of the question-naire was posed as a reward. It told participants they would receive a 
Starbucks gift card and asked them 
the amount they wanted on it. 
They looked at relationships be-
tween independent variables such as age, gender, highest reported income, confidence in negotiation 
and the amounts requested on the Starbucks cards, 
Douglas said. 
Their re-
sults ultimately 
contradicted the findings of almost every study on nego-
tiation since 1975, Douglas said. These studies claimed women 
didn’t make good negotiators be-
cause they don’t ask for what they want, or they’re afraid they’ll come off as pushy.  Miller’s and Doug-las’ study showed the opposite. Ev-ery woman, regardless of income, asked for something on the cards, while men with low incomes asked for nothing. 
“It just reaffirmed what I 
thought, and I think that it could help women see that it’s not a ‘he said, she said’ battle,” Miller said. “It has more to do with...knowing your value and how to negotiate.” 
Both Miller and Douglas advo-
cated for regular mock negotiation sessions in college classrooms to 
prepare students for salary nego-
tiations. According to their study, someone can lose up to $1.2 mil-lion in a lifetime just from failure to negotiate an initial salary offer. But the notion that women don’t ask isn’t as valid as it once was, Douglas said. 
“I think it has absolutely noth-
ing to do with gender,” Miller said. “I want people to start steering away from that.”UF business student 
and professor debunk research study
  It moved down Archer Rd.
Miller
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Ashley Lee is spending Christmas with 
her family — and about 30 orphans.
The UF occupational therapy senior has 
a special place in her heart for the needy 
families she has helped in Panama. For the 
past five years, she said she served rice and 
beans to orphans.
But this Christmas will be the first time 
Lee plays with those children in the or-phanage her father and others from their family’s Jacksonville Beach church found-ed.
“I just really like helping people,” the 
22-year-old said. “It’s a great experience, 
and it’s an experience like no other.”
The orphanage is called Manos de Fe, 
or Hands of Faith. Lee said its emblem is a 
pair of cupped hands, one holding the Pan-amanian flag and one holding the Ameri-can flag.
“It’s a symbol of those countries coming 
together in the Christian faith,” she said.
Her father, Mark Lee, is one of the or-
phanage’s co-founders.
After a friend of his adopted a child 
from Guatemala several years ago, Mark Lee worked with other members at Beach United Methodist Church in Jacksonville Beach to build an orphanage.  
The church congregation originally 
wanted to build it in Guatemala, but Pan-ama proved to be easier, Mark Lee said. However, they still had difficulties with the Panamanian government. 
After the church sent the papers to bring 
children to their new home, the govern-ment switched hands, so they had to start the process all over again, Ashley Lee said.
This summer, the group received per-
mission to house the children.
However, Ashley Lee said she doesn’t 
think the work is done.
“There are still a lot of girls in these 
underdeveloped countries that need our help,” she said.This past June, Ashley Lee traveled to 
Panama for a week through UF’s Global Medical Training program, where she said she assisted with medical assessments and treated locals with 54 other students. She plans to continue her service with GMT in India this winter.  
Mark Lee said his daughter’s passion for 
philanthropy stems from traveling abroad with him while she was growing up. He said he wanted to instill a drive to help oth-ers.
“I guess it worked,” Mark Lee said. “I’m 
very proud of her.”
Ashley Lee said she also supports chil-
dren through her involvement in UF’s 
chapter of She’s the First, an organization 
that raises money to support girls’ educa-tion in developing countries.This past summer, she attended the 
She’s the First Leadership Summit in New York City, where she met the orga-nization’s co-founders. She was also there when UF’s chapter received the award for Outstanding Achievement in Community Engagement, she said.
But she still makes time for the children 
in Panama.
With five houses, Manos de Fe will ini-
tially house about 30 children. Ashley Lee said they are also planning on building more houses in the future to fulfill their hopes of housing 100 children.
Each house will also have a tía, or aunt.“She will do the cooking and the clean-
ing — pretty much being their mom,” Ash-ley Lee said.
Before they could house children, Ash-ley Lee said she and other church members would feed local families, provide water filtration and play with the children. The church’s program helped feed more than 50 families.
It costs $400 to feed a family for one 
year, according to the orphanage’s website.
Manos de Fe will focus on housing 
Panama’s Ngobe-Bugle indigenous Indian population. 
Ashley Lee said the children will be re-
sponsible for chores based on their age, such as picking fruits and vegetables.
But before all of the work begins, the 
group will be celebrating with the kids.
“We bring all the kids in Panama Christ-
mas gifts,” she said.
Courtesy to the Alligator
LEFT: Ashley Lee holds a young boy at an elementary school in Panama after a long day of giving medical care during her past 
GMT trip.  RIGHT: Ashley Lee plays with a baby on a parachute during a Christmas party held at Manos de Fe for the Ngobe-Bugle 
tribe of Caisan, Panama on Dec. 25, 2014. 
UF professors — Michael B. Reid, a professor of applied physiology and kinesiology; Daniel Fesenmaier, a tourism, recreation and sport man-agement professor; Jason Stien-metz, a tourism, recreation and sport management professor; Janet Matthews, a director in the College of Design, Construction and Plan-ning; and Roy Hunt, an emeritus professor of law — after St. Au-gustine resident David Corneal ap-plied to build the Cordova Inn on his property. An acceptance of Cor-neal’s application would cause the area to be rezoned, something that could potentially disrupt the con-centration of historic buildings in the area known as Historical Pres-ervation 1 (HP1).
While many people do support 
the professors’ belief that the pro-posal would restore some neglect in the historic district, others object to the professors’ involvement despite that two of the professors are affili-ated with the UF Historic St. Augus-tine organization, according to the group’s website.
Ed Slavin, a St. Augustine resi-dent who runs a blog dedicated to addressing issues within the city, said he had a problem with the study because it was unscholarly.
“There’s no major scholarly 
research,” Slavin said in a phone interview during the meeting. “It’s not a scholarly research paper and it shouldn’t have had UF’s name on it. This is just about rich guys tak-ing public resources.”Slavin added, “It doesn’t look 
at the history of the HP1 neighbor-hood.”
However, Ellen Avery—Smith, 
Corneal’s attorney, said she and her client supported the use of the study during the debate.
“It is an excellent summary of 
what we have just gone through more than an hour of highlighting,” she said.
HISTORIC,  from pg 1The professors believe it will restore neglect in the districtCAMPUS
UF’s She’s the First member helps Panamanian orphansTHE NEW RESTAURANTS WILL BE GEARED 
TOWARD FAMILIES
By Paola Asencio
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville will soon have new spots to fill those grilled 
cheese cravings. 
Cheese Daddy, known for providing a variety of grilled-
cheese sandwiches in the heart of Midtown, plans to open two 
new, more family-oriented restaurants on Archer Road and Tower Road. While the Tower Road location is set to open within the next two months, the restaurant’s owner Andre 
Norman said the Archer Road location will open in early Sep-
tember.Norman said he’s “stressed and stoked” and “super ex-
cited.”
Norman said while the Midtown location will continue to 
stay open until 2:30 a.m., he hopes the other locations will close at 10 p.m. to make the restaurant more family-friendly. 
“I hope we don’t have a 10- or nine-year-old out late at two 
in the morning,” he said.
The additional locations are something that Richelle Moore, 21, is happy to see after her first meal at Cheese Daddy on 
Monday night.
“It’s a good business, and I like to see they’re expanded,” 
the English senior said.
Other customers, like Jess Larsen, 32, hope the new loca-
tions will offer a menu with more dietary options.
“(One thing) I hope to see would be that they have a non-
dairy option,” Larsen, who is lactose intolerant, wrote in an 
email. “If they had a vegan cheese option or a nut cheese, like soy cheese or like a cashew cheese or almond cheese...that 
would provide for those who do not consume dairy products.”
While Norman didn’t specify any new cheese products, he 
said he was looking to expand other sections of the menu.
“Maybe salads,” he said. “We’re playing around with the 
make-your-own milkshake.”Cheese Daddy prepares to expand to two new locations 
“If they had a vegan cheese option or a nut cheese, like 
soy cheese or like a cashew cheese or almond cheese...
that would provide for those who do not consume 
dairy products.”
Jess Larsen
Cheese Daddy customerTUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Local man recovered after being hit with 
a car in O’Connell Center parking lot
A police service technician is unharmed 
after getting hit with a car in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center parking lot Friday 
morning.
 At about 9 a.m., Bellman Gibson, Jr., was monitoring the O’Connell Center parking lot when Richard Batchelor, 27, 
reportedly struck him with a yellow Ford 
Focus, according to a University Police re-port. Batchelor entered the parking lot — closed for New Student Convocation 
— by speeding past two officers before 
Gibson stopped him, according to the re-port. Gibson directed him to turn around, 
but Batchelor reportedly said, “I do not 
have time for this,” and requested a su-pervisor, according to the report. Batchelor then drove forward and hit the technician’s knee, according to 
the report. Though Gibson thought it was 
a mistake and stepped back, Batchelor drove forward and hit him again, accord-ing to the report.
 Police arrested Batchelor on a 
charge of aggravated battery on an educa-tion employee and was released from the Alachua County Jail on his own recogni-zance Saturday.
 Batchelor, a staff member in the 
department of religion in the College of Liberal Sciences, did not respond to re-quests for comment. “These police service technicians directing this traffic do so for public 
safety,” said UPD spokesman Major Brad 
Barber. “That should not have happened.” A similar incident occurred June 5 
when campus police arrested 29-year-old 
Patrece Breon Middleton for striking a Police Service Technician with her Toyota Camry.
Police arrest man visiting from Peru 
on sexual assault, false imprisonment charges
Gainesville Police arrested a man visiting 
from Peru on Monday after he reportedly sexually assaulted a female acquaintance 
several times Saturday and prevented her from leaving. After flying into 
Miami, Jorge Andres 
Ruiz Sanchez, 25, ar-
rived in Gainesville at about 1 a.m. Saturday to visit his acquain-
tance, according to an arrest report. After sleeping over at her house, Ruiz Sanchez tried to talk about having a relationship with the woman. She said 
she didn’t want a relationship, and he 
pinned her to the bed and assaulted her, according to the report. When the woman tried to leave, Ruiz Sanchez reportedly put his hand around her neck and strangled her mul-tiple times, according to the report.
 Ruiz Sanchez later sent apologetic 
text messages to the woman, saying he was embarrassed and was going to kill himself, according to the report.
 The woman then gave Sanchez a 
ride back to his hotel, located at 5505 SW 41st Blvd, where he asked her to accom-pany him to his room. He then reportedly locked the door, physically preventing her 
from leaving the room, and said, “You 
have to do everything I say or you can’t leave,” according to the report. The woman eventually rushed out 
of the room and escaped, according to the 
report. On Sunday morning, Sanchez re-portedly left his hotel and walked until he got to the woman’s apartment and called 
911 because he was lost and having a 
panic attack, according to the report. Police booked Sanchez into the Alachua County Jail on charges of sexual 
assault and kidnapping, where he remains 
as of press time in lieu of a $50,000 bond.  
Police identify gun used in Sorority Row 
robbery as air gun
University Police identified the gun used 
in a robbery on Sorority Row last week as a black air gun.
 Initial reports said Anthony 
Showell, 24, reportedly held a handgun to 20-year-old Kyle Smith’s head as Smith was walking to Campus View Apartments about midnight Aug. 17. Showell report-
edly held the gun while the other man 
took Smith’s wallet and cell phone and ran away, according to an arrest report. Showell then held the gun against 
Smith’s head and asked 
him for his car keys and 
any other possessions, 
threatening to shoot Smith in the head if he 
didn’t listen, according 
to the report. Smith re-fused, and Showell ran away, according to the 
report.
Police arrested Showell later that night, 
and found the air gun in his backpack. While Showell was arrested on charges of aggravated assault with a 
deadly weapon and robbery with a fire-
arm, police are still looking for the second robber. UPD spokesman Major Brad Barber said this was a crime of opportunity rath-
er than a specific target.
 “Anything that can happen any-where, can happen here,” he said. “We just want to make sure that the communi-
ty members out there are certainly aware 
of that.” As of press time, Showell remained in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $25,000 bond.GAINESVILLE CRIME ROUNDUP
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Sanchez
Showell
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Mediocre Advice: Finding love in college
Happy Tuesday to all my Random Randys 
and Anonymous Amys, and welcome to Mediocre Advice. This article is a reboot of Ariel Barnes’ own Mediocre Advice column, which was last published dur-
ing my freshman year back in the salad days of 2012. Like the triumphant phoenix rising from its own ashes, your weekly inquiries will once again be answered with extremely average and somewhat distorted advice; you might even say the advice offered here could be considered pro-saic, middling or any other acceptable synonym for mediocre.
If you have any questions you would like to see an-
swered in the weeks ahead, please email them to medio-cre.alligator.advice@gmail.com, and specify whether you prefer to stay anonymous. Remember, I will always have your best interest in mind when answering you… though a heavy grain of salt is recommended. These questions are modeled after those submitted to the previous iteration of Mediocre Advice. Until next week, enjoy.
“Dear Mediocre Advice, I am about to be starting my 
junior year of college and have yet to find my ‘special someone.’ Granted, I haven’t really been looking, but even so, I am ready to settle down. How would I even go about finding this person!?”
– Rando Randy
Rando Randy,Great question! Even though hookup culture has be-
come the norm, you still have hope of finding your Won-
der Woman aka unicorn aka Great White Buffalo. My ad-
vice: Keep a routine of meeting new people, yet search with a keener eye. Ultimately, this will just be a numbers game. I once overheard a line in Midtown that I’ll never forget: A girl was saying to her distraught friend, “Don’t worry about it… boys are like frogs, you have to kiss a lot of them to find your prince.” A real paradigm shifter, right? Rando Randy, girls are like dragons — you have to go through a few to get to your princess. So, between this game of frogs, dragons and what-ever miscellaneous real or mythical reptile you choose to work into your love life analogies, you have to keep on trucking.
“What does ‘we’re on a break’ mean?”
– Generic Romance Column Pseudonym
Generic Romance Column Pseudonym,This can mean everything and simultane-
ously nothing. That phrase is essentially the 
Schrödinger’s cat of relationship vernacular. Do I still text him? Should I tell my mom? What’s going to happen to the 
cat we raised? Is he even alive at this point!?
My advice: Open up iPhoto and find a picture of you 
and that one person your ex despises the most (odds are 
it’s your elementary school sweetheart). Log onto your preferred social medium, switch to your emoji keyboard, close your eyes and randomly pick about six to eight emo-jis, and upload the picture.
“Why is it so much weirder to hear your roommate 
masturbate than have sex?”
– Feeling Extreme Horror
Feeling Extreme Horror, Let’s try to answer your question with a question, FEH: 
Why is it considered weird to eat by yourself? Growing up, why did everybody make fun of the kid playing catch alone? In a culture where solitary activities of pleasure are deemed odd, everything has become a partner or group 
activity. Essentially what it comes down to is a projected 
sense of FOMO. Your roommate is assuredly not feeling any FOMO, and they’re perfectly happy getting them-selves off. You’re just projecting your insecurities onto them and are curious why, unlike you, they aren’t using their tears as lube.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.In recent weeks, Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders’, I-Vt., relationship with black voters has been sub-ject to tremendous scrutiny. Thus far, two of Sanders’ appear-ances on the campaign trail have been hijacked by activists who self-identify as part of Black Lives Matter, a movement 
dedicated to raising awareness and effecting substantial change to institutional racism and the subpar treatment of black citizens in the U.S.
Since these instances, news outlets and blogs have published 
a number of think pieces seeking to understand, rationalize and explain why Sanders, the most left-leaning presidential candi-date, has been the primary target of Black Lives Matter activists. On Aug. 10, Hamilton Nolan, a Gawker staff writer, published “Don’t Piss on Your Best Friend,” where he argued that of all the 
candidates running in the 2016 presidential race, Sanders “is the 
candidate most aligned with the group’s values,” and that the ef-forts of activists would be better spent at the rallies of candidates less invested in their cause.
Two days later, fellow Gawker contributor Greg Howard 
penned a response, “Bernie Sanders Can’t Save Black People.” Howard countered Nolan’s argument, positing that despite Sand-ers’ good intentions, he was the latest in “a long history of well-intentioned liberals failing to adequately … address the nature 
and causes of racial inequality.” 
The conflicting viewpoints of Nolan and Howard are more 
relevant than ever, given Sanders’ attempts to woo black voters 
during his recent visit to South Carolina. The senseless, horrific shooting in a historically black Charleston church this past sum-mer served as a stark reminder that modern racism does not be-gin and end with racially motivated police brutality.
The truth of the matter lies somewhere between Nolan’s high 
praise and Howard’s critical appraisal. If voters are to judge Sand-
ers’ racial platform based on his own personal history and voting 
record, he is far and away the most qualified candidate: Sanders spoke out against segregation and police brutality as a student at the University of Chicago during the Civil Rights Movement. Additionally, Sanders is the only presidential candidate who par-ticipated in the historic March on Washington, where the late Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his celebrated “I Have a Dream” speech. As a senator, Sanders has repeatedly decried the war on drugs and for-profit prisons, as both institutions have proven 
time and again to be sources of oppression for Black Americans.
However, he lacks immersion. Vermont, the state Sanders 
represents, is not plagued by the same racial conflicts that per-
vade states like Missouri and South Carolina. Although there is no doubt Sanders has nothing but noble intentions, he lacks the insight that comes with directly representing beleaguered black communities.
To secure the Democratic nomination, Sen. Sanders is going 
to have to prove to black voters that he has their best interests at 
heart. Is he the perfect candidate? Far from it. But if not the man 
who marched with Dr. King, then who?Despite 
controversy, 
Bernie Sanders is 
the best candidate 
for racial justice
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Simon 
Moskovitz
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 The academic community, 
the scientific establish-ment, UF and the Medical 
University of South Caro-
lina (MUSC) has recently 
suffered a great and premature loss of a remarkable man — Dr. 
Louis J. Guillette, Jr.     
      Although I had not spoken to Dr. Guillette in a decade, I was deeply grieved to learn of his passing.    
   I have struggled 
with expressing how important Lou Guil-lette was, not only to 
my education, but vir-
tually every aspect of my professional life ever since first attend-ing his biology lec-
tures at UF in the fall 
of 1996. In thinking of Dr. Guil-lette, I recognize that I am only one of hundreds of students 
whose lives he touched.         
    Many of you likely ap-proached Dr. Guillette in Bar-tram Hall as I did after watch-ing him leap onto the stage in 
cargo shorts to present a fasci-
nating discourse on basic biol-ogy. Mostly unprompted and animated by hand gestures, his 
orations were accompanied by 
an infectious smile, a full beard on his ageless face and longish hair that, with a flip of his head, would reveal twinkling eyes.  
          I am sure many were in-
spired to follow him to the ends of Lake Apopka to track alliga-tors on airboats in the middle of 
the night and a few of you may 
have offered to clean alligator poop on the roof as I did. You likely became skilled in the art of microtome tissue sectioning 
and ovarian histopathology, and 
those of you who joined his lab would know how to find and measure the male reproductive 
organs of Alligator mississip-
piensis, perhaps raising many an eyebrow among your family and friends.       Yet it occurred to me that 
one of the biggest impacts Lou 
Guillette had through his men-torship, training and generosity was through the thousands of 
letters of recommendation that 
he wrote — an act that by virtue of our educations continues to open doors, altering and secur-ing our paths, marking our per-
sonal and professional achieve-
ments — forever.    And so, in remembrance of my first academic father, I’d like to 
write this letter of recommenda-
tion for Dr. Guillette:
Dear members of the Nation-
al Academy of Sciences,
I am writing on behalf of Dr. 
Louis J Guillette, Jr. for post-humous admittance into the National Academy of Sciences for his outstanding impact on the education of a generation of 
young scientists. 
It is well known that Louis 
Guillette made substantial con-
tributions to reproductive biol-
ogy and developmental endo-
crinology during his 25 years at UF. 
He had 200+ publications, 
his tenure as a How-
ard Hughes Medical 
Institute professor and his leadership as former associate dean 
for research at UF and 
director of the Marine Biomedicine and En-vironmental Sciences Center at MUSC.
But I am not writ-
ing to commend him on those fronts, as surely others who worked intimately with him 
throughout his life can better at-
test to his achievements. 
I am writing on behalf of his 
students. 
I don’t know who they are, 
but I know that if he had even a fraction of the impact on their lives as he had on mine, then he has an incalculable impact fac-
tor as a result of the network of 
individuals marked by his tute-lage. 
I joined Dr. Guillette’s lab in 
the spring of 1997 and stayed 
on for my entire undergraduate 
education at UF. 
Lou Guillette wrote my letters 
of recommendation to the UF 
College of Veterinary Medicine, 
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Master of Public Health program and then for my residency and Ph.D. at Harvard 
University. 
As a mentor, Dr. Guillette rec-
ognized his students’ strengths 
and challenged them. 
When there were clear inepti-
tudes, he gently guided us to im-prove and was never overbear-ing as we found our way. 
Most of all, Dr. Guillette was 
so inspiring, his energy un-bounded, he exemplified every-thing that a “professor” should be. 
He was Santa Claus and 
Dumbledore with a pinch of golden retriever wrapped up in a real life, unbelievable human being. 
So, dear Academy — he 
should go down in history as one of sciences “greats” because he was great in more ways than 
anyone could ever convey. 
I only wish that he could 
know how, every day, I work, 
hope and strive to be just like him.
Sincerely,Mandy Jezek (Martinot)Letter of recommendation 
for Dr. Louis Guillette Guest Column
Mandy Jezek
Speaking Out
When someone embraces being 
politically incorrect, they really mean they are either: a) factu-ally incorrect or b) a jerk. At the Aug. 6 Republican presidential 
debate, Donald Trump said, “I don’t frankly have time for total political correctness. And to be honest with you, this country doesn’t have time either.” Contrary to what Trump may believe, political correctness is not stopping relevant political discourse but, rather, push-ing it toward the real issues.
Most of the time, “political correctness” is not 
obscuring an issue, but instead highlighting social 
inequalities and stereotypes that still exist. For 
example, the term “anchor babies” is not used to describe all babies born to U.S. immigrants, just undocumented ones. It perpetuates the idea that having an American child somehow protects an un-
documented person from being deported. However, 
this is not accurate, since 22 percent of all deport-ees were the parents of American children in 2011. Additionally, the term is used disproportionately 
to describe Hispanic children. It portrays their par-
ents as having children in the U.S. as a method of scheming to stay here when, in fact, most of them came here to work. The true issue is how the chil-dren are being cared for once their parents are de-
ported, because parents are not fully protected from 
deportation by their child's status as an American citizen. Words have implications. To say that they don’t is to deny historical context. It is necessary 
to reflect on how words can affect people. Chances 
are, if there is something you want to say but don’t because it’s “politically incorrect,” what you were going to say is rude at best and inaccurate at worst. Saying something in a “politically correct” way does 
not make it less true. Yes, there are things that you 
shouldn’t say because they are potentially hurtful. Instead of deliberately saying those hurtful things, you should instead ask yourself why they are hurt-
ful and stop saying them. Trump continues to be 
the talking piece for all of the nonsensical theories out there, from birthers to the bane of political cor-rectness. Trump and his supporters believe the real problem in the U.S. is that political correctness has 
run amok. His followers are attracted to his ability to 
“tell it like it is.” In fact, the problem is when people use the term “politically correct” to gloss over ac-tual substantive issues. Instead of talking about ways to manage immigration, the rhetoric instead focuses on calling out po-
litical correctness. Perpetuating the belief 
that “politically correct” discourse is hin-dering progress because certain beliefs are being repressed is almost as nonsensical 
as the idea of reverse racism, the notion 
that by enabling another race, white peo-ple are being oppressed in turn. But this is 
simply not true due to established, institutionalized power structures. Over time, certain voices have 
been heard more than others — specifically, those of 
wealthy, white, straight, cisgender men like Trump.
In the past, policies instituted by people in that 
incredibly specific demographic were used to put 
down those who fall outside any of those aforemen-
tioned parameters by not allowing them to vote or simply not enabling them to share their perspective. Now, people who fall outside of groups with insti-
tutional power have the capacity to have a voice; 
when they call out offensive or problematic lan-
guage, they deserve to be heard. Perhaps it’s the 
people in those communities who know what is best for them, not someone who is detached from their experiences. Some believe that by being politically 
incorrect you are just being honest. In reality, this is 
just an excuse to use discriminatory language. Using the term “political incorrectness” is just a way to give oneself carte blanche to be sexist, racist, able-ist,   homophobic and transphobic under the guise 
of “speaking your mind” and “telling the truth.”
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.'Politically incorrect' hinders social issuesColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“Chances are, if there is 
something you want to 
say but don't because it's 
'politically incorrect,' what 
you were going to say is 
rude at best and inaccurate 
at worst.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
TOP LEFT:
Students collide in an Ultimate 
Frisbee match during the “Fris-bee and Freeze Pops” event on-Flavet Field on Monday night.
TOP RIGHT:
UF’s Christian campus minis-try, The Navigators, hosted the event Monday night to kick off the semester and meet new stu-dents.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Ryan Rice, 18, a mechanical en-gineering freshman, leaps for the disc Monday night on Flavet Field.
BOTTOM LEFT:
(From left) Michael Cizek, 19, Chandler Farrell, 21, Christian Yun, 20, and Ezekiel Michael, 20, cool down with freeze pops after a game of Ultimate Fris-bee on Monday night on Flavet Field.TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Gainesville Throwbacks
Aug. 24, 1987
Kappa Sigma Fraternity 
members found themselves 
under investigation for vio-
lating the UF Interfraternity Council’s regulations by ad-vertising a “Drink Til You 
Drop” party. 
Kappa Sigma members 
had bright orange ﬂ  iers that 
read “Drink Til You Drop. No I.D. required.” 
Kappa Sigma President 
Jeff Gans said he did not ap-prove the ﬂ  iers. 
“It may have been in poor 
taste,” he said. “If we offend-ed anyone, I’m sorry.”
Aug. 25, 1992As Hurricane Andrew 
ripped through South Florida, students at UF with family in the area affected by the Cat-egory 5 storm struggled with 
the inability to get in touch  
with their loved ones. 
Telephone lines were dam-
aged by the storm and caused students to only hear either a 
busy signal or an automated 
voice telling them to try their call again later. 
“It’s frustrating when you 
don’t know what’s going on and you can’t do anything about it,” said Joanne Zim-bler, a then-UF English senior who couldn’t get in touch with her mom and sisters af-ter multiple attempts to call.Aug. 23, 2001Santa Fe Community Col-
lege, now Santa Fe College, 
started to enforce its new 
nonsmoking policy. 
Santa Fe police would 
write tickets to students and 
staff caught smoking outside 
designated areas on campus. 
Santa Fe’s previous smok-
ing policy had been in place since February of 1999. The 
college banned smoking in all 
buildings in 1993.
Aug. 25, 2008
To focus on food and wa-
ter conservation, UF decided 
to remove trays from its din-ing halls. 
According to a study re-
leased by Aramark, UF’s food service provider, dining halls use less water and students throw away less food when 
trays are not used.
– Ariana Figueroa 
and Jordan McPherson
Alligator ﬁ  le photo
UF mascot Albert stops by the Reitz Union Barbershop on Aug. 25, 2011, for a haircut. Al-
bert and Alberta were interacting with students and posing for photos to bring attention to the “J. Wayne Reitz Union” Facebook page. 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like 
new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $675/mo. Call Joe 727-423-9463    8-28-15-6-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Secluded Alachua home, 2000, 8.9 acres, 3br/2ba 2440SF, well/septic, open plan, darkwd fireplace, vaulted ceiling, stor-age, pasture, convenient to Gville, springs! $286,500 NEG Exit Realty Producers Sue Paper 301-806-8935   8-25-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Scooter for Sale, Still under warranty.  You need a motorcycle license. $1,000. Comes with cover and lock. Text or call after 6pm 352-219-8190                8-25-15-4-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Office Ass't-F/T One of these Passions-FX 
Show Justified/health&fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, Love to read, Math interest. 1 yr+ commitment. paulsrothstein@gmail.com 8-25-15-5-14
HOME/OFFICE/APARTMENT CLEANER NEEDED if interested please call 352-214-0868..MUST own a reliable car, pass a back-ground, drug ,and reference check. Paying $8/hr and weekly pay..    8-27-15-5-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
PT sales assoc. wanted Flex days & hrs. Retail exp. a + Great cust. service skills req- we'll teach the rest. If hard working & want a fun work env. email res. scrubsbydesign@gmail.com  8-26-3-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANT
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    8-31-15-6-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but dis-organized 8th grade girl. $10 per hour plus mileage for 4-6 hours per week. Flexible hours. Email qualifications to maddy56@ufl.edu.    8-28-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYRED'S TAVERN 2 Year Anniversary Aug. 29 Su/Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-Ladies Night/Karaoke Th.-Men's Night, Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-$1 PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978           8-28-10-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics. Florida's men's and women's golf teams will open their Fall seasons in September. Read the season preview on pg. 14. By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
has a mantra similar to Patches O’Houlihan’s iconic “If you can dodge a wrench, you can dodge 
a ball” line from the 2004 mov-
ie Dodgeball: A True Underdog 
Story: If you can catch a ball in 
practice, you can catch a ball in a game.
“There’s no reason to me you 
should ever drop a ball,” McEl-wain said. 
“I don’t know if sometimes the 
receiver’s so shocked the ball’s 
gotten to him or something, I 
don’t know, but then they react 
like they’ve never done it before.”
If quarterbacks Will Grier and 
Treon Harris, one of whom ﬁ  g-
ures to become the starting quar-
terback at some point, hope to 
have any success, the Gators will need a wide receiver to earn the trust of the coaching staff and the quarterback.
The fact of the matter is Flor-
ida hasn’t had a dominant wide receiver since Percy Harvin in 2008.
However, the blame can’t 
solely be placed on the receivers: UF has seen seven wide receivers coaches come and go in as many seasons.
Now, with coach Kerry Dixon 
placed in charge of developing Florida’s talent, the receivers aren’t just working on running routes and perfecting footwork.McElwain and Dixon are driv-
ing home the importance of play-ing conﬁ  dently and taking ac-countability for their personal development. 
“At the end of the day, these guys have the talent to do it. You talk about believing in yourself,” McElwain said. 
“Part of it is a responsibility 
to prepare to handle the details of the position. I don’t know that they’ve been asked to do that consistently.”
Redshirt sophomore wide receiver Alvin Bailey said the coaches, speciﬁ  cally offensive co-ordinator Doug Nussmeier, have made it easier for the receivers to learn their role in the offense.
“Everything is laid out. If you 
don’t know it, then this offense isn’t for you,” Bailey said. 
“Coach Nuss makes it simple 
for every receiver to understand what they have to do on the play and everyone knows each assign-ment on ﬁ  lm.”
When asked if he was able to 
better understand the offense due to improved coaching, Bailey sim-ply answered “deﬁ  nitely.” 
"Part of it is a responsibility 
to prepare to handle the details 
of the position," McElwain said. 
"We've got some (wide receivers) 
who can play, no doubt."
Rather than encouraging a 
group mentality, the coaches 
have made sure the receivers feel 
like important individuals and 
critical to the offense.
With a newfound sense of con-
ﬁ  dence and worth, it’s up to play-
makers like Bailey to display the talent that earned them a scholar-ship to Florida in the ﬁ  rst place.
“Coach Nuss and Coach Mac, 
they sat us down, talking to the receiver group and said that they need players to step up,” Bailey said. 
“I think I’ve done that this 
camp.”
Former Gators compete at World Championships
Former Florida track and ﬁ  eld standout Novlene Williams-Mills placed sec-
ond in her heat on Monday, earning an automatic berth in tonight's women's 400 meter semiﬁ  nals in the IAAF World Championships. Marquis Dendy will compete Wednesday in the triple jump qualiﬁ  er. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Wide receiver Alvin Bailey catches a pass during Spring practice on April 6 while wide receivers coach 
Kerry Dixon looks on at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Florida preaching importance of conﬁ  dence to receivers
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
No one looks more poised to reverse the 
sophomore slump trend than Rhamat Alhas-
san.
All the 6-foot-4 middle blocker did in her 
ﬁ  rst year on the court was lead the nation with a .458 hitting percentage, continuing a streak that has seen a UF player do so each 
of the last three years.
But despite Alhassan’s freshman success 
last year, she’ll be the ﬁ  rst to humbly tell 
you she didn’t expect it.
“I just kind of came in just wanting to 
help the team and for us to do good,” she said. “So I just did what I felt like I had to do.”And although you can’t tell by watching 
her play volleyball in the O’Connell Center, Alhassan will also be the ﬁ  rst to tell you she’s still learning the game — partly be-cause she only started playing the sport as a sophomore in high school.
“There’s never a day I’m not learning 
something,” Alhassan said. 
“Speciﬁ  cally, I think serving is one of 
those (things I'm learning). Working on 
your hand contact and tossing, all those 
things are things I try to play around with and ﬁ  gure out.”Alhassan continuing to 
improve for UF volleyball 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15IT'S COHEN DOWN
Football is back, and with 
it comes the culmination of an offseason ﬁ  lled 
with controversy. 
These controversies 
range from the serious and 
horriﬁ  c, like former Baylor de-
fensive end Sam Ukwuachu’s 
sexual assault of a BU wom-en’s soccer player, to the silly and avoidable, like the New York Jets’ Geno Smith’s jaw, broken after it was 
bashed in by teammate Ik Enemkpali in-
side the Jets’ locker room.
Lately, football has had a hard time 
separating itself from drama.
In case you’ve forgotten, here’s a quick 
recap of a few of the most covered, off-the-ﬁ  eld stories from football’s busy off-season.
It began with the release of the NFL’s 
Deﬂ  ategate reports in May — an investiga-tion conducted by Ted Wells into the New England Patriots and quarterback Tom Brady, 
involving the under inﬂ  ation 
of footballs used by New Eng-land during the AFC Champi-onship game.
The league’s already shaky 
reputation for its ability to handle internal investigations 
took another hit when reports indicated Wells wasn't actually an "independent" 
investigator at all. 
Months later, much of the football 
world still sits in purgatory, as Brady and 
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell con-
tinue to battle in court to see what will 
become of Brady’s four-game suspension to open the 2015 season.
As the NFL preseason began, Deﬂ  at-
egate drama gave way to the hot topic of Football season is scandalous 
“There’s never a day I’m not learning 
something.”
Rhamat Alhassan
 UF middle blocker
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbBailey: Coaching has improved By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Following his first season as the 
head coach of the Gators men’s golf 
team, a season in which he saw his 
squad reach the NCAA Champion-ship, J.C. Deacon enters his second season with a number of key con-
tributors returning from last year’s squad.
A.J. Crouch will be entering his 
senior season as the presumed No. 
1 golfer after completing the 2014-15 season with four top-10 finishes, 
including winning the Florida Gulf 
Coast Invitational in October.
Junior Ryan Orr played the sec-
ond most rounds of any player on the team last year (37), and he fin-
ished with the third-most birdies (95).
Both Alejandro Tosti and Ryan 
Celano are talented sophomores 
who should be able to crack the lineup more often. 
Tosti and Celano will need to 
build on their freshmen campaigns due to Florida needing to replace the lost production of departed golf-ers J.D. Tomlinson and Eric Banks, 
along with two other seniors. Newcomer Sam Horsfield has 
a chance to do what Celano and 
Tosti did for the Gators last season as Deacon called him “an overnight program changer.”
Horsfield qualified for the 2015 
U.S. Open but missed the cut af-ter shooting 11-over par after two rounds.   
Deacon’s first season was con-
sidered a success, as the team had nine top-10 finishes and was able to reach the NCAA Men’s Golf Championship with relatively no 
expectations to do so. 
However, the Gators did not 
play well enough through a tour-
nament to capture a team title last season. 
Deacon will have to prove 
his worth this season to keep the Gators heading in the right direc-tion and break through to win a 
tournament.
The men’s team begins its sea-
son on Sept. 11 at the Carpet Capi-
tal Invitational in Dalton, Georgia, a tournament the team finished in 
13th place out of 14 teams last sea-
son.
On the women’s side, head 
coach Emily Glaser will look to 
have her team bounce back after 
a disappointing end to its 2014-15 season.
The Gators had five top-five fin-
ishes as a team last year, including 
winning the Briar’s Creek Invita-
tional in March.
However, Florida’s season end-
ed at the NCAA Regional Champi-onship in Raleigh, North Carolina 
as it failed to qualify for the NCAA 
Women’s Golf Championship. 
Karolina Vlckova qualified for 
the championship as an individual 
and ended her season by posting a 
score of 19-over par. 
Vlckova now enters her third 
season as she tries to build on her sophomore season, a campaign 
that saw her with the best stroke 
average on the team (74.06) and the most top-25 finishes (seven).  
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson 
had a promising freshman season, as she and Vlckova were the two most consistent players in the line-up. 
Tomlinson had six top-25 finish-
es and was in the lineup for every tournament last season.
Juniors Kelly Grassel and Ma-
ria Torres also return to fill out a 
lineup that will no longer feature 
seniors Camilla Hedberg and Anna Young. 
Grassel had the highest indi-
vidual finish for the Gators as she 
finished in sole possession of sec-
ond place at the Briar’s Creek In-vitational.
Torres had a solid sophomore 
year as she finished with a stroke average of 75, good enough for the third best on the team.
Glaser and Florida will begin 
their season on Sept. 13 at the Cou-
gar Classic in Charleston, South 
Carolina, a tournament where the Gators finished in 12th place out of 23 teams last year.By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
Jake McGee’s first season with the 
Gators ended before it could even start. 
Instead of bolstering UF’s passing game 
as a viable threat up the middle, the senior tight end and Virginia transfer found him-self on the sidelines with a broken leg less 
than 30 minutes into the season, wonder-
ing if his football career had come to an end.
But with a sixth year of eligibility and a 
sense of responsibility, McGee’s sole focus 
is getting back on the field and proving he 
can handle anything thrown his way.
“I’m very confident in my abilities and 
what I can bring to the table,” McGee said. 
“I expect them to put a lot on my shoul-
ders as the season goes and I’m ready to embrace it.”
For the last two years, the tight end po-
sition has been virtually non-existent in 
Florida’s passing game.
Following the departure of Jordan Reed, 
a third-round pick in the 2013 NFL Draft, 
UF tight ends have accounted for just 30 , 
279 yards and three touchdowns.But Florida first-year head coach Jim 
McElwain plans to change that.
McElwain is implementing more pack-
ages designed to get the tight ends in-volved in the passing game, providing an 
extra dimension to the offense. 
The playbook calls for a tight end who 
can block while simultaneously operating as a pass-catching option. 
And that starts with McGee.In his final year at Virginia, the 6-foot-6, 
249-pound McGee showed he could come through in clutch situations.
Of his team-leading 43 catches, 26 went 
for either a first down or a touchdown.
“He’s a guy that’s really been accepted 
by his teammates,” McElwain said. 
“You could tell just the year he was here 
and what he went through and having him back is huge at that position especially.”
And with the position’s depth — high-
lighted by McGee and up-and-comers 
DeAndre Goolsby and C’yontai Lewis — 
McElwain has the pieces to work with.
“We’ve got some guys that are really 
pushing each other,” McElwain said. “…
There’s some guys at that position and 
what that does is allows us some flexibility in some personnel groups.”
With one season of eligibility left, Mc-
Gee knows he needs to make an impres-
sion quickly if he wants a chance at a pro-
fessional career.
And as Florida’s season opener against 
New Mexico State on Sept. 5 gets closer, 
he’s focused on just that.
“It really starts with you first to want 
to be the best player that you can be,” Mc-
Gee said. “It’s your job as a player to go out there with a good mindset each day 
and want to be great instead of just getting 
through the practices.”14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
Alligator File Photo
UF’s A.J. Crouch follows through on a backswing at the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 at 
the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Tight end Jake McGee stands on the sideline during Spring practice on April 6 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
SEASON PREVIEW
Florida golf programs improving, building around youthEntering sixth year, McGee aims to revitalize UF tight ends
McGee broke his leg last yearIn 2014, Alhassan used a basic 
standing serve — which produced 
just 11 service aces.
But this year, the Glenarden, 
Maryland, native said she’ll utilize her height and 38-inch vertical by hitting a jump float serve, which 
she’s been working on since Janu-
ary.
The jump float serve will allow 
Alhassan to hit the ball at its high-est point, which means opposing 
players will have less time to react 
to the ball as it knuckles through the air towards them.
Alhassan seems eager to face 
the challenge of mastering an as-pect of the game that could make her play even more dominant — a scary thought for opponents con-sidering how imposing she was as 
a freshman. 
“It’s definitely a harder serve 
and a faster serve, so speed and 
the flow of the serve will make it a 
little more difficult for opponents,” Alhassan said.
While Alhassan works on per-
fecting all aspects of her game, she knows she wouldn’t nearly be as good as she is without her team-mates — most notably senior Sim-one Antwi, who’s also a  middle blocker.
“Simone was a really big role 
model for me,” Alhassan said. “Be-
ing the same position and she re-
ally coached me the entire year and still does now.”
With a wealth of experience at 
the net, Antwi has helped Alhassan improve her blocking, hitting, tech-nique and form — all of which An-twi said has been easy to teach be-
cause of Alhassan’s receptiveness.
“She’s a really quick learner,” 
Antwi said. “So it’s not like we’re 
talking about the same thing every week. It’s something new every 
week and I have to keep up with 
her.”
Though Antwi may not be the 
premier middle blocker that Alhas-
san is, she has embraced the men-
tor role with younger players like Alhassan and freshman middle blocker Taelor Kellum.
“It’s really cool because with 
Rhamat or even Taelor, they’re just so receptive and kind of have this relationship where I not only make them better but they make me 
better,” she said.
increased fighting in training camps, which really wasn’t uncommon until Smith was 
sidelined for 6-10 weeks, all because of a $600 debt he allegedly refused to pay. As I tuned into Sportscenter that day, 
ESPN analysts and former NFL players gathered to announce their shock at En-emkpali’s actions towards a quarterback, which had no precedent.
At the forefront of those with strong-formed opinions was ESPN analyst and Hall-of-Famer Cris Carter who, this past weekend, found himself in the middle of his own controversy when a video surfaced of him speaking during the NFC session of 
the 2014 NFL Rookie Symposium. There, he instructed players to make 
sure they had a “fall guy” to take the blame 
if they happened to end up in their own off-the-field controversy in the future.
On Friday, former Boise State transfer 
and Baylor defensive end Ukwuachu was sentenced to six months in jail and 10 years probation for the 2013 sexual assault of a former Baylor women’s soccer player.
During the trial, the reason behind Uk-
wuachu’s 2013 dismissal from Boise State was made public: he had been accused of assaulting his girlfriend. 
This shone a spotlight on Baylor head 
coach Art Briles and why he would have taken on a Boise player who had an assault accusation in his past.
And so began a back-and-forth between 
Briles and former Boise State coach Chris Peterson after Briles said Peterson failed to tell him of the misgivings surrounding Ukwuachu. 
Peterson vehemently denied that, say-
ing he fully informed Briles at the time. 
However you look at it, it's hard to be-
lieve Briles was unaware of the allegations leveled against Ukwuachu. 
This latest scandal will undoubtedly 
bleed into the coming weeks until it is re-solved or the next one appears, which, if the past is any indication, shouldn’t take much longer.
So here we are, two weeks before the 
start of the NFL and college football regu-lar season and teams across the nation are juggling controversies, scandals, incidents 
and criminal charges involving a few in-
dividuals that have caused an unfair ste-reotype for the countless players who just want to play football.
Finally, the offseason is over. Here’s 
hoping that football’s messy mountain of scandals are too.TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
AP Photo
Baylor coach Art Briles walks the sideline during his team's NCAA college football game against Buffalo on Sept. 12. Baylor 
University will conduct an investigation into the school's handling of sexual assault allegations against a former football player. 
COLUMN,  from pg 13VOLLEYBALL,  from pg13Alhassan will switch from a basic serve to a jump float serve
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan swings for a kill during Florida's 3-0 win against Mississippi State on Oct. 26 in the O'Connell Center. “Simone was a really big 
role model for me.”
Rhamat Alhassan
UF middle blocker16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015
