By Martin Vassolo 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
mvassolo@alligator.org
As the brass bells of Century 
Tower chimed Saturday, Timothee 
Deschamps wept for his country.
Standing a few feet from the 
blue, red and white of the French 
ﬂ  ag, the UF exchange student put 
his hands to his face and fell to his knees.
“It hurts me directly in the 
heart,” he said. “When I see those three colors… it makes me think of my country, all I believe in.”
Between Thursday and Friday, 
in just 24 hours, the world was shaken by multiple attacks.
In Paris, six attacks were carried 
out: 129 dead, about 352 wounded. The Islamic State group claimed re-sponsibility for the shootings and bombings in public places, includ-ing a stadium and a concert hall. In Beirut, two suicide bombings were 
carried out: 43 dead, about 239 
wounded. ISIS claimed responsibil-ity for the bombings in a southern neighborhood.
An earthquake off the southwest 
coast of Japan also triggered a tsu-nami Friday. There were no report-ed injuries or damages.
In the aftermath of the attacks, 
UF students both in Gainesville and abroad reached out to loved ones as they began to mourn and heal.
      
George Esenwein said it’s im-
possible to prevent terrorism.
The UF history professor, who 
teaches political terrorism, said the Paris and Beirut attacks are proof of 
a cultural war going on as a result 
of past U.S. policies, including the U.S. invasion of Iraq.
When the U.S. took out al-Qai-
da, it left a power vacuum, he said, which allowed for groups like ISIS to form.
“Nobody even thought of a movement that could be more ex-tremist,” he said.
It’s impossible to prevent terror-
ism because a state can’t police ev-
erywhere, he said. But people want 
to see immediate response after ter-rorist attacks.
France carried out an immedi-
ate response Sunday night as it launched airstrikes on ISIS sites in Raqqa, Syria.
“You don’t get immediate grati-
ﬁ  cation by bombing somebody 
or killing somebody,” he said. 
“There’s no way of ever really elim-inating terrorism.”
In order to take on ISIS, coun-
tries need to unite, he said.
“That kind of pressure is going 
to be the only way you can stop it in its tracks,” he said.
UF found itself dealing with the 
Paris attacks, as staff contacted stu-dents studying abroad.
All UF students have been con-
tacted and are safe, said Jen Day Shaw, the associate vice president and dean of students.
Whenever major events happen 
where UF students are studying, We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 59 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
Gators ready for regular-season 
home opener
Florida plays North Carolina A&T tonight at 8, 
pg. 13
Sinkhole opens in front of UF Health Shands 
Hospital
It is 5 feet in diameter, pg. 5
Buildings glow purple for premature babies
It’s for March of Dimes, pg. 8A day on the farm
Check out the Swallowtail Farm Fall Festival 
photo story, pg. 9
S.CAR 14 FLORIDA 24
AFTER SWEEPING THE 
SEC EAST, UF PREPARES 
FOR FINAL STRETCH OF 
REGULAR SEASON.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
COLUMBIA, S.C. — There 
were moments when the offense 
shined, and there were others that made Gator fans scratch their heads and wonder how the bright 
spots were possible.
The defense was smothering, 
making up for any offensive strug-
gles and keeping No. 11 Florida on the winning end of the ﬁ  eld-position battle throughout the day.
And when it was needed, the 
team found a way to make a play 
and get the job done.
Those three sentences can be applied to both Florida’s perfor-
mance against South Carolina on Saturday and the makeup of the team’s entire season.
“That’s how we’re built,” 
coach Jim McElwain said. “If you 
look at games that we win, we’re 
usually plus turnover (margin), and we’re plus time of possession, which allows our defense to be fresh and play really hard.”
After 10 games and nine wins, 
that’s the formula this team has proven it needs to be successful.
There isn’t anything wrong 
with that fact — it’s simply this team’s identity, and it’s an iden-tity this coaching staff has wisely realized and subsequently tai-lored the team’s entire approach around.
“That’s how we’ve got to 
play,” McElwain said. “Part of what we do as coaches is try to 
ﬁ  gure out what’s gonna give the IN THE MOMENT
 Courtesy to the Alligator 
Thousands of people attended a memorial service at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris on Sunday. Chil-
dren sat on their parents’ shoulders and elderly women stood outside the church and watched the live-streamed service on their phones. “It was a very impactful moment, ” said Pedro Perez, a 20-year-old UF history and political science junior studying abroad in France, who took the photo.
 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF players celebrate with freshman running back Jordan Cronkrite (32) after Cronkrite scored his second touchdown during Florida’s 24-14 win against South Carolina on Saturday at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Students reﬂ  ect on ISIS attacks 
UF students in Paris are safe
SEE PARIS,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Remote Area Medical Movie
What do people do if they need 
medical, dental or visual treat-
ment and have no health insur-
ance? If they are lucky, they can go to a Remote Area Medical event where physicians, den-
tists and vision specialists vol-
unteer for two or three days and treat thousands. The highly praised Remote Area Medical movie shows one such event 
in Tennessee. There will be a 
screening at the Civic Media Center, 433 S. Main St, today at 7 p.m. A donation of $3 to $5 
is suggested. Sponsored by the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition and the Civic Media Center.
Theatre troupe against violence
UF’s Center for Arts in Medicine, Dean of Students Office and Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education seek cul-
turally diverse individuals in-
terested in social justice for a new theatre troupe that uses the power of the arts to prevent interpersonal violence. Become 
part of the movement to elimi-
nate stigma, build awareness and educate your peers. The troupe provides training and 
opportunities; you provide pas-
sion, talent, energy and drive. No prior theatre experience re-quired. Contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu. This club 
meets Tuesdays at UF in the 
Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion in Studio G15 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Trainings 
and select performances sched-
uled for Spring 2016.  
Talking Gators meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, at 970 Natural Area Dr. Everyone is 
welcome to attend and learn 
about Toastmasters. For de-tails about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking 
Gators Facebook group page. 
“The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in 
which members are empowered 
to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and per-sonal growth.”Gators for UNICEF Squat 
Challenge
While toilet day may seem like 
a joke, there are actually 2.5 bil-lion people around the world (1 in 3) who do not have access to sanitary facilities. It is also 
one of the most lacking of the 
United Nations’ millennium de-velopment goals. Its goal is to raise awareness for this issue 
by hosting an event Thursday 
at 12:35 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas where they at-tempt to break the record for most people squatting in one 
place. The current record is 118 
people, and they hope to chomp that with more than 150 people in attendance. Free pizza will 
be provided, and the event will 
only take 10 minutes. Invite your friends and come out and squat with them.  For more in-formation, visit facebook.com/
events/1046268918719333.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Local Bands ShowcaseReitz Union Board 
Entertainment will be host-ing their first Local Bands Showcase on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. The show will feature 
local bands from Gainesville, including Insignificant Other, Pyramid and Poblano.
RUB Entertainment Presents: Comedian Joe Mande
At 9:30 p.m. Friday, head over to the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom to watch stand-up 
comedian Joe Mande per-form during GatorNights. Joe Mande is a comedian/writer/
actor. He wrote for “Parks and 
Recreation” for its last three seasons. Other writing cred-its include “Kroll Show” and the Aziz Ansari series “Master 
of None” for Netflix. He had a 
recurring role on “Parks and Recreation,” and has also been on “Kroll Show” and “Modern 
Family.” His stand-up appear-
ances include “Conan” and “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” and he had his own half-hour special premiere on Comedy 
Central in 2012. Remember 
to bring your Gator 1 Card for GatorNights admission.
Café Cultural: Your Culture, 
Your HealthToday, UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs and Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs are collaborating to present Café 
Cultural: Your Culture, Your 
Health. The health-disparities- focused event will be both in-teractive and informative, with help from the Culinary Arts 
Student Union and U Matter, 
We Care ambassadors. Come out to enjoy free food at La Casita and learn how to ad-
dress health disparities while 
remaining true to your culture. Make sure to avoid the $15 fee at the Student Health Care Center and take advantage of 
free HIV and STD testing pro-
vided by the Alachua County Health Department from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. For more informa-
tion, check out the event page 
on Facebook at facebook.com/events/1523348411317108.
STRIVE (Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence Education) is currently seek-ing Volunteer Peer Educators who represent UF’s diverse 
Student Body
Good at planning and promot-ing events? Passionate about changing our current culture of interpersonal violence? Like 
to have fun while educating? 
We’re the student org for you. We table, give presentations to students and put on three major 
events yearly, including Cupid’s 
Consent Week and Take Back the Night. Apply at gatorwell.wufoo.com/forms/strive-volun-teer-application. The deadline 
is Tuesday at noon.  For more 
information about STRIVE, visit the GatorWell website and click on the Programs tab.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 59
HIGH  82° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloBy Gabrielle Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students twirled their 
hands, stomped their feet and 
swiveled their hips Saturday 
night at the India Cultural and 
Education Center.
About 500 students celebrated 
Diwali, which was hosted by the 
Indian Graduate Students As-
sociation and cost about $3,000. Diwali, a Hindu holiday centered around good triumphing evil, is an annual Indian festival of lights.
In a theater setup, some stu-
dents made paper lanterns in vi-brant reds and yellows. Others posed for photos with Diwali lan-
terns. When the lights dimmed, 
students filed into their seats for performances of traditional Indi-an dances.
Among them was UF nuclear 
engineering doctoral student Ty-ler Remedes. The 23-year-old said he hadn’t seen the traditional dances before but liked their au-
thenticity and elegance.
“It was nice to see a different 
culture,” he said.
Attendance increased this 
year, and the group couldn’t al-low all students into the center 
because of space. The organi-zation’s vice president, Rohan Dhavalikar, said there was a larg-
er turnout because it wasn’t held 
during Homecoming Week.
“We wanted people to enjoy 
doing things which we usually do in Diwali,” the 25-year-old chemi-
cal engineering doctoral student 
said.In India, people decorate their 
houses with paper lanterns, said 
Soumitra Sulekar, the organiza-
tion’s president.“This is one of the biggest fes-
tivals in India, and it’s a good 
way to get students together and 
provide a homelike atmosphere,” the 26-year-old UF materials sci-
ence and engineering doctoral 
student said.
After the dancing and sing-
ing performances, students ate 
rice and tofu curry as they chat-
ted and introduced themselves to strangers.
“People can come here and 
meet each other,” Sulekar said. “Most grad students don’t get to do that. That’s the whole point: 
to get people together and make 
them feel like home.”MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
Emma Green / Alligator
Biswas Rijal, right, a 30-year-old UF materials science graduate student, was cajoled into doing a traditional dance from North India called bhangra 
in front of about 500 people celebrating Diwali at the India Cultural and Education Center on Saturday night. He pulled his friend, Gaurav Sultania, left, a 24-year-old UF civil engineering graduate student, on stage with him so he wouldn’t have to perform alone.Students dance to celebrate good over evil 
It’s for Diwali, a Hindu holidayBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
When Wendy Coats first moved 
to Gainesville, a woman on a bus 
warned her to avoid downtown and its homeless population.
Coats, 51, bit her lip. As she 
walked off the bus, she turned back to the woman.
“By the way, ma’am,” she said, 
“I’m homeless.”
During Grace Marketplace’s sec-ond annual Day of Grace on Saturday morning, Coats was able to walk into the homeless shelter’s new kitchen and eat her first fresh meal in a while.
During the event, which was de-
signed to show the progress made over the past year, the shelter chris-
tened its new kitchen and provided a 
day of entertainment for the shelter’s guests. The idea of the marketplace being a one-stop location for the homeless is what sets it apart from other shelters in Alachua County, said Pegeen Hanrahan, a former mayor of Gainesville, who spoke dur-ing the ceremony.
“It’s really exciting to see this fi-
nally come to fruition,” she said. “It’s been a long time coming.”
After functioning as a prison, the 
shelter opened as the only facility of 
its kind. What was lacking, however, 
was a kitchen.
The shelter used to rely on outside 
donations to feed more than 80 resi-dents and the 250 additional people who live across the street in a tented community known as Dignity Vil-lage.
But Saturday, the kitchen opened 
as a red ribbon was trimmed and a bottle of champagne was popped. A line quickly formed as the kitchen’s first meal, cooked by chef and co-owner Bert Gill of Blue Gill Quality Foods, was ready to go. 
It’s been about a decade since the 
idea of the shelter first popped up in City Hall, Hanrahan said. 
“We kind of borrowed the Wal-
Mart model of social service,” said Jon DeCarmine, the director of op-erations at Grace Marketplace. “The idea is whatever you need, you can come here.”
The new kitchen, Café 131, was 
dedicated to Frances “Pat” Fitzpat-rick, a regular at City Hall meetings. 
Fitzpatrick, who passed away last 
year, would walk around with pins on his shirts that read “Feed Every-one,” Hanrahan said.
“He was kind of the voice for the 
forgotten down at City Hall,” she said.
In the chilly weather, Coats 
walked along a path inside Grace 
Marketplace on Saturday with her 
15-year-old pug named Maggie. 
“I think it’s gonna be great,” Coats 
said. “In cold weather, you want to eat more.”4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
Blue Gill Quality Foods co-owner and chef Bert Gill, 46, cuts bread into 
smaller portions after removing it from one of the new ovens on Sat-urday. “It will be so much easier to feed so many more people, ” he said.
their information is pulled immediately and 
they are contacted, she said. All UF students in Paris received emails and are accounted for.
UF follows the U.S. Department of State’s 
guidelines on warnings and safety concerns in each country, she said.
UF would never tell students they have to 
come back to the U.S., she said, but the Inter-national Center, which runs the study abroad programs, will continue checking in on the students in Paris.
“A lot of it depends on you,” she said.The university also reached out to stu-
dents from France, she said. No students from France have reported losing a loved one.
•   •   •
Pedro Perez was in Paris, but he found 
out about the attacks on Twitter.
The UF history and political science ju-
nior, who is studying abroad, initially thought there was only one isolated shooting, he said.
He said he realized the city was under at-
tack at 9:20 p.m.
On Sunday, at 6:15 p.m., he stood with 
thousands outside a memorial service at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Parisians sung and prayed as children sat on their par-ents’ shoulders and elderly women reclined by the gates of the church, Perez, 20, said.
Paris is a city of freedom: freedom of the 
press, freedom of speech and freedom of as-sembly, he said.
“You can’t take away the spirit of free-
dom,” he said. “You can’t take liberty away 
from them.”
Assiata Adams, a 21-year old UF exchange 
student from France, said her family lives 
right by the Stade de France, a soccer stadi-um just north of Paris, where two explosions occurred in the first half of a men’s soccer match between France and Germany.
After she heard the news of this attack 
and the handful of others scattered around 
Paris, Adams began to frantically phone her 
family.
“It was the only thing we could do,” she 
said. “I feel useless.”
Adams said her brother-in-law Robert wit-
nessed one of the attacks Friday night, but he hasn’t spoken about what he saw to anyone. He’s still in shock.
Adams isn’t sure what the future holds 
for France. All she can do is hope for better times.
“I feel like this is the start of a war, but 
we don’t know against who,” she said. “I’m scared for my parents, I’m scared for every-one.”
Elsa Bouchenot couldn’t sleep Fri-
day night. Over and over, the UF business sophomore would imagine her older sister, Charlotte, walking into gunfire. She would imagine Charlotte walking down Boulevard Voltaire to print a term paper.
And then the attacks would begin.“In my head I kept picturing her being 
there,” the 18-year-old said. But Charlotte is 
in the next room, on vacation in the U.S.  
Bouchenot was born in Paris and lived 
there until she was 9 years old. Half of her 
family lives there, many on the streets where the attacks took place.
To her, the city is like a colorful painting. 
But after Friday’s attacks, the canvas went black.
“The color, the lights, the people, every-
thing was just sucked out of it at once,” she said.
On the night of the attacks, Bouchenot’s 
friend, Adrien, was drinking a beer at a res-taurant down the street from La Belle Equipe, a restaurant where 19 people were shot and killed.
“For me it was really hard because I rec-
ognize the streets, I know where it is, I know 
the restaurants,” Bouchenot said. “I wish I 
was there to share their pain, to share my support...and help them go through this.”
•   •   •
For Jill Adams, the earthquake wasn’t a 
big deal.
The secretary of UF’s Japanese Student Association said because the earthquake re-sulted in no injuries or damages, it didn’t need the media coverage, the 21-year-old said.  
But the UF Japanese and psychology se-
nior said she felt the Beirut bombing has been neglected in the aftermath of both attacks.
“If you look, people are changing their 
(Facebook) pictures to the French flag,” she said, adding that the media focuses on mostly Western countries. “There’s no Lebanese flag filter.”
However, Nuha Nourieh doesn’t care 
about the lack of Lebanese flags on her Face-book timeline, or the lack of a check-in sys-tem for her friends and family to make sure 
she’s alive.
“Facebook’s the least of my worries,” the 
23-year-old said. “We’re way over this. The 
division starts before and with more impor-tant things.”
To Nourieh, a Syrian native working in 
Beirut, the attacks are no longer a shock — and neither is the lack of media coverage.
“I think they think ISIS is coming from us, 
as in Arabs, so they don’t need to show sup-port or anything,” she said. “They feel like we’ve inflicted this upon ourselves.”
When living in the Middle East, Nourieh 
said, mourning individual bombings would become overwhelming.
“We would spend our lives mourning if 
we do that,” she said.PARIS,  from pg1UF International Center will continue checking on studentsLOCAL
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Marilyn Wall and her 
five roommates graduated from 
UF, they were living off peanut butter and jelly sandwiches.
But they still managed to make 
their own sets and costumes in what is now the Hippodrome State Theatre.
“What drove us was the work 
and wanting to follow our pas-sions,” Wall said.
Forty-three years later, the 
Florida Theater Conference hon-
ored Wall, a founder of the Hip-
podrome, with an award for out-
standing contribution to Florida’s professional theater Saturday night in the Fine Arts auditorium 
at Santa Fe College. Since being a 
part of the Hippodrome, Wall has 
won two Emmy Awards for her costume design on television and film sets.
As she accepted her award in 
front of about 600 high school and middle school students, Wall said she felt inspired by their en-ergy.
“The one thing I can tell you 
is choose your work for love, don’t do it for money,” Wall said to the audience. “Be honorable and truthful. Somehow, if you do it for love, the universe supports you.”
Wall is credited with much 
of the Hippodrome’s success be-cause of her theater involvement, said Terry Klenk, Wall’s former student and Santa Fe’s theater director.
“I hate to say a person be-
comes a landmark, but she is a 
landmark in the regional area of 
costume here and well-respected all across the nation,” Klenk said. 
“She’s one of the most inventive 
costume artists I’ve ever encoun-
tered in the way in which she cre-
ates art from nothing.”
Mary Britt, a member of the 
FTC board of directors and long-
time friend of Wall, presented 
Wall with the award and shared the story of the Hippodrome’s founding.  She said many theater 
students have decided to start 
theaters.
“What is not the norm is that 
the artist-driven theater that the 
six friends founded thrived and 
became an award-winning re-
gional professional theater with a 
multimillion-dollar budget which recently celebrated its 42nd sea-son,” Britt said.
After founding the Hippo-
drome with her five friends and putting on productions, Wall worked at the theater for more than 40 years and was the last founder to stop working at the theater.
“What a phenomenal career 
this woman has had,” Klenk said.  “She is in and amongst the elite pantheon of people who have achieved this award over the last 6o years.”Hippodrome founder 
receives state awardA new kitchen for the homelessMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Lee Wetherington didn’t go to 
UF, but he’s a Gator fan.
That’s why Wetherington said 
it was an easy choice to promise 
a $1 million donation to the Col-lege of Journalism and Commu-nications last week. 
Because the donation is a be-
quest, it is uncertain when the money will be acquired, said the college’s dean, Diane McFarlin.
Wetherington is the founder 
of Lee Wetherington Homes in Sarasota.
The money, which will come 
from the Lee Wetherington Foun-dation, will go toward support-ing studies in investigative jour-nalism. 
McFarlin said she hopes to 
use it to hire a faculty member, create more ac-cess to public information and 
expand a data journalism pro-gram.
“It will en-
able us to support something that is very central to both our profession and our country,” she said. “Investigative reporting is critical to an informed public.”
UF journalism senior Ashley 
Lombardo said she’s glad the college is getting the money but wishes it could be used to ex-pand the online journalism cur-
riculum.
“It would be wonderful if we 
could expand the curriculum to 
include other kinds of journalism 
that are becoming more preva-
lent,” the 21-year-old said.  
Wetherington said he decided 
to give his money to the inves-tigative journalism program after 
speaking to McFarlin, his friend 
of 20 years.
“I’ve been fortunate enough 
to have been successful, and I’ve 
always felt that you need to give 
back to the community,” he said. 
“I couldn’t think of a bet-
ter place than the University of Florida.”Journalism college gets $1 million
Wetherington
THE SINKHOLE IS 5 FEET IN 
DIAMETER.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
A sinkhole opened in the grass about 
100 feet from the main entrance of UF Health Shands Hospital on Sunday morn-
ing.
Behind a chain-link fence and strands of 
yellow caution tape, Gainesville Police of-
ficers and Utility Services Gainesville em-
ployees investigated the hole.
“It’s scary-looking now,” one of the em-
ployees yelled to an officer. After the man 
unraveled a tape measurer down the sink-hole, he said the hole was about 18 feet 
deep.
The sinkhole is 5 feet in diameter, and 
geological engineers will evaluate the sink-
hole today, Melissa Blouin, the UF Health 
director of news and publications, wrote in an email.
Nobody was hurt, but for the safety of 
citizens and visitors, traffic is being routed 
away from the intersection of Archer Road and Southwest 16th Street, according to the email.
Georgeanna Freeman, 58, said when she 
left the hospital at 10 p.m. Saturday after visiting her son, the sinkhole wasn’t there.
“It could get bigger real fast,” she said 
as she watched the men look at the sink-
hole.
The sinkhole poses a risk, but Freeman 
said she wasn’t surprised to see one in 
Florida.
“With all the limerock, it’s a bunch of 
swiss cheese,” she said.
For an unknown period of time, valet 
parking will be available at the Children’s Hospital entrance, according to the email. 
Patients and visitors can also park in the 
East Garage. The West Entrance and Can-cer Hospital will serve as alternative drop-off areas.Sinkhole opens in front of UF Health Shands Hospital 
Giuseppe Sabella/Alligator Staff
A sinkhole, about 18 feet deep, opened near the main entrance of UF Health Shands 
Hospital on Sunday.
By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF biostatistics professor cre-
ated a vaccine for the Ebola virus.
Since Fall 2014, Ira Longini has 
worked with the World Health 
Organization to design an Ebola 
vaccine. This term, he found his 
Ebola vaccine was 100 percent ef-fective.  
Now, Longini said he and his 
research team have moved from the trial stage.
Ebola is a deadly airborne vi-
rus that causes organ failure. The first known Ebola outbreak oc-
curred in 1976, according to the 
World Health Organization’s web-site. The most recent outbreak oc-curred in 2014.
Longini’s vaccine was designed specifically for Ebola, he said, and the team based its research off of how smallpox was dealt with in 
the 1970s. 
“I think that it is interesting to 
solve important health problems 
by learning how to control infec-tious diseases,” Longini said. 
Longini said it is likely Ebola 
will spread across the world, and he thinks it’s important to stop it as soon as possible.
UF chemistry senior Harrison 
Bonilla said he’s learned about Ebola in classes but doesn’t think the public understands it well.
“Every year, the number of 
people affected (by Ebola) grows, and the increase in airplane trav-el has made the disease easily spreadable,” Bonilla, 21, said.UF professor finds 
Ebola vaccine effective For investigative programThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnThe politicizing 
of a tragedy is 
unexpected
There should be no doubt as to whether Friday’s horrific 
attacks in Paris were political: They were. Any attack on civilians by an “other” always has an agenda to push. The Islamic State groups’ subsequent claims of respon-sibility ought to remove any traces of skepticism from 
those who would seek to speak about the attacks in de-politi-cized terms.
With that said, there is a time and a place to muse about the 
implications of tragedies brought about by terrorism. No matter how politically charged events such as these may be, for the sake of basic decency, it is crucial for them to be viewed from a comprehensive and humanist perspective.
As international stories of great human loss are wont to do, 
the Paris attacks prompted individuals not directly impacted 
by the situation to indulge in their worst ideological impulses. 
Separated by the Atlantic Ocean and insulated by the comforting knowledge that their loved ones were safe — not to mention the adoration of social media followers and subscribers — American politicians and cultural commentators used the attacks to for-ward agendas of their own, or figure out what it all “meant” in relation to American politics. On both the left and the right, the quickness of individuals to interpret the tragedy through a nar-row, U.S.-centric lens demonstrated an upsetting willingness to 
eschew any and all considerations for not only the open wounds 
of France and those affected, but also for the world at large.
As catalogued in Frank Bruni’s column for The New York 
Times, “The Exploitation of Paris,” it took no less than four hours for the ever-alluring appeal of political opportunism to take hold among American ideologues. The ever-charming Ann Coulter tweeted “Too bad there were no concealed carry permits ... anywhere in Europe ... since 1818.” Likewise, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich tweeted “Imagine a theater with 10 
or 15 citizens with concealed carry permits. We live in an age 
when evil men have to be killed by good people.”
Not content to leave tastelessness solely to the right, Salon 
published the article “And so the hate speech begins: Let Paris be the end of the right’s violent language toward activists” be-fore Paris’ night of terror had even concluded.
Drawing connections between cultural, social and political 
occurrences is a healthy and reasonable intellectual endeavor to embark upon — within the confines of good taste. Posting 
reactionary rhetoric mere hours after a tragedy in the hopes of 
netting shares, going viral and reinforcing a personal brand is, on the other hand, decidedly tasteless.
What’s more, it seems as though these same opportunists 
could not find the time within their busy schedules to speak out on the other disasters that afflicted the world last weekend. The bombings in Beirut and Baghdad; the earthquakes in Japan and Mexico. The political consequences and increased visibility of one tragedy should not overwhelm sympathy and consideration 
for the plights of others.
During fits of intellectual, social or political outrage, it is all-
too-easy to forget to consider the feelings and experiences of 
others. There is, unfortunately, not a doubt in our minds that there will come a day when we once again have to cover a wholly unnecessary and detestable loss of human life. It is only natural the horror of Paris’ nightmare Friday would generate strong sentiments, but it is our hope next time something of this ilk occurs, the American commentariat can place their sympathy 
and empathy for others before themselves.
Abortion restrictions are an issue of class 
The Supreme Court has agreed to hear 
a case on Texas’ House Bill 2 — a bill that resulted in half of the state’s abor-
tion clinics being closed. The law is 
a threat to the rights of low-income 
women in Texas. As the Supreme Court pre-pares to hear one of its first abortion cases 
in a while, it must consider the motivations 
behind such restrictions. Given abortion is a low-complication procedure, many of the re-strictions are unnecessary and serve only to make it dif-ficult for women to get an abortion.
While Roe v. Wade made abortion legal under the 
premise that restricting a woman’s right to get one vio-lated the Due Process clause of the 14th Amendment, it did not specify the extent to which abortion could be 
regulated. Even though the Texas law does not prohibit 
abortion, it might as well, given most of the standards for places that offer abortion are too expensive to be implemented. This violates the spirit of Roe v. Wade — that women should have the right to choose. If women 
cannot choose because of undue restrictions, then that 
is as bad as an outright ban, especially for low-income women. If a woman has to travel farther than expected to get to her nearest abortion clinic, that means she has 
to ask for time off work, or has to miss work, and she 
risks being fired. That, and having to pay for a hotel to stay in another city because she may have to wait to be seen at the only clinic near her and the cost for the procedure may be too much. While people who are mid-
dle- or upper-class may be able to justify the expense 
because a child certainly costs more than an abortion, this choice just isn’t available for low-income women.  As abortion becomes more restricted, more women will 
be forced to have children they did not plan for.
Instead of supporting low-income women, this fur-ther disenfranchises them and takes away 
their ability to choose. Long wait times can mean women would be three weeks further 
along when they get their abortion, which 
can mean it would be hard to find an abor-tion provider willing to perform the operation. Late-term abortions are rare, and it’s hard to 
find providers willing to perform them. Focus-
ing on such late-term abortions is misleading because they make up so few of the abortion 
procedures performed each year.
It is sleazy for politicians to find ways around Roe v. 
Wade and restrict a woman’s right to choose. These re-strictions don’t hurt the wealthiest women in American society, of course. They will always be able to travel 
wherever they need to go in order to get an abortion. 
But for the less wealthy, these restrictions are hard-hitting, meaning they might have children for whom they don’t feel they can provide the best upbringing or have more children than they can comfortably support. 
With rising costs of child care, it can be hard for single 
mothers to work, pay and provide for a child, along with usual expenses such as food and rent. The respon-sible thing to do is to increase access to abortions and 
women’s health care in general — these solutions will 
truly give women the right to choose.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“This violates the spirit of Roe 
v. Wade  — that women should 
have the right to choose.”This has been a year of magical think-
ing.
In the wake of the attacks in Paris 
on Friday, I am disappointed by stupid-ity, opportunism and tacit hatefulness.
French Twitter largely wrote off the attacks, 
with the second trending hashtag being #Pal-
estine.  @Sel_fa tweeted: “Friends telephone 
me: cries of joy in the suburbs of the 94th (Vit-ry, Ivry…) and 93rd districts. Arabs at their windows with the Algerian ﬂ  ag.” He retweet-ed dozens of posts like @Raiponce__’s: “Oh 
Allah grant victory to those of Palestine, that 
Allah helps them don’t forget them in your dua <3 <3 <3 <3.” 
A more recent tweet of hers said, “When 
your brother saw the attacks he told you: now we have to get ready for war,” and she signed off with two gun emojis. 
Co-founder of the Free Gaza movement, 
Mary Hughes-Thompson, suggested Israel was 
behind the attacks. American friends posted 
Facebook statuses claiming it was racist to as-sume the terrorists were afﬁ  liated with the Is-lamic State group (ISIS).
Yes, the formerly colonized are poorly in-
tegrated. But as of April, an estimated 3,000 French nationals had gone to Syria to join the Islamic State group, which has claimed re-sponsibility. This is a real situation with blood 
on the ground.
This is catechism: Look away, and it goes 
away. Look from Islamic State group to Iraq, 
and Islam is no longer to blame. Look from 
Vitry to Algeria, and the jihadist Armed Is-
lamic Group is absolved. Look from Paris to Palestine, and you’ve got a Jew to blame.
So when we turn to Palestine, what do we 
support? President Abbas, whose dissertation called Zionists the Third Reich’s “partner in crime”?  A Hamas Television kids show that urges children to “shoot all the Jews”? The East Jerusalemites who julienned peace ac-
tivist Richard Lakin’s intestines on a bus last 
month?  Child suicide bombers?
The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions 
(BDS) manifesto advocates the right of return, so where are the Jews to go? Jack Kugelmass, 
the director of the Center for Jewish Studies at 
UF,  said, “It’s just a fantasy.”
He raised more issues with BDS. Are Ar-
abs of Palestine still refugees after years away? 
Who are the indigenous residents of Palestine, 
as up to the early 20 century, very few Arabs would have disputed that Israel was Jewish land? What about the many Jews who have lived in the region for 500 to 2,600 years? Why 
dismiss the terror that drove Jews out of coun-
tries like Iraq and Egypt?
Where should Jews have gone in 1945? 
Should the GIs have poked the corpses of Ber-
gen-Belsen and said, “Dude! Wake up! We’re 
going back to Germany!”
As Maxim Biller argues, anti-Zionism fab-
ricates a global conspiracy. See the obsession with Israel-Palestine and neglect of every other 
ethnic conﬂ  ict. See my BDS-supporter friend 
who said, “Ugh, Jewish Studies. They must have a ton of money.” See the German news comments sections that are already closed.
A German who has made ﬁ  ve trips to Israel 
told me, “I’ve never met a Palestinian who’s 
not anti-Semitic,” recalling one who conﬁ  ded, 
“Germans and Palestinians have a lot in com-mon. We both live in divided countries and we both have a problem with the Jews.” Imag-
ine Palestinians getting an Arab national state. 
How are the Jews going to be treated there, compared to Arab Israelis?
Oppose Netanyahu, Israel Defense Forces  
excesses and even the occupation. But toler-
ance of the Islamic State group, Hebdo shoot-
ers and Abbas-endorsed terrorism is not toler-ance. Islamic State group members rape young girls, and invoking Dubya won’t excuse that. 
We can condemn terrorism without condemn-
ing refugees, but the experience of France sug-gests we emphasize integration. We must con-demn this week’s Islamist attacks in Beirut, Kenya and Israel, not resort to tired clichés.
Let’s recall when Mohammed Merah shot 
up a Toulouse Jewish school in 2012 in the name of Palestine, the grafﬁ  tis of “F--- the kippa” and the whoops of joy at his funeral. 
Especially since the Second Intifada knee-jerk 
solidarity with Palestine has been used to jus-tify escalating violence in France, and to write it off: It’s not France’s problem, it’s Israel’s.
It’s despicable, as is calling Israel an apart-
heid state despite Arab representation in the Knesset, or calling Jews Nazis, although Eu-ropean Jews never blew rockets at Berlin. But it’s fun. It’s a safe, stupid and sexy new anti-
Semitism. The Jews are villains, in cahoots, 
and can call nowhere home.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and 
Spanish senior. Her column appears on Mon-days.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!Column
We can condemn terrorism without targeting refugees
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
IT’S THE 34TH ANNUAL 
DOWNTOWN FESTIV AL & ART 
SHOW.
By Rasheba Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer  
Natasha Payton spent the weekend 
handing out cookies.
The marketing coordinator for King Ar-
thur Flour stood outside a food truck and 
passed out chocolate chip oatmeal cookies 
for a $1 donation. It was part of the display 
for the company, which is the latest to join the 34th Annual Downtown Festival & Art Show.
“We really want to give out cookies, 
spread smiles throughout and inspire peo-ple to bake at home,” she said.
While the flour company has been around 
since 1790, it was the first time it was a part 
of the festival, which brought local artists, 
musicians, food and charities together for a weekend in downtown Gainesville.
“Fairs like this are a really great place for 
us to be,” Payton said.
The festival lasted from Friday to Sun-day. IT cost $100,000 and was paid for by 
Gainesville Cultural Affairs, said Linda Pip-
er, the event coordinator and manager for the festival. 
The Downtown Festival & Art Show is a 
“celebration of art and culture,” Piper said.
On Main Street, booths and tents lined 
the street for locals to pass by. At the Earth Pets booth, passersby could pet and play with two German shepherds while co-own-
ers Joy and Kat Drawdy sold natural pet 
treats and food for dogs and cats.
“We like to support all the local artists,” 
said Joy Drawdy. She said the festival was a great place to see people they knew from their store.
This year was the first year Madi Barrett 
had been able to go to the festival. An ap-plied physiology and kinesiology freshman, 
Barrett said she enjoyed being able to talk 
to artists about their paintings and admire their work.
“I’m surprised by the amount of art that 
is showcased in festivals like the one to-day,” the 18-year-old said. “I didn’t think Gainesville would be such a creative com-munity.”Food, art and culture collide at downtown festivalBy Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
As the sun set behind hangars at 
Gainesville Regional Airport on Saturday, 
about 30 people waited for a surprise.
Sitting in the Joint Aviation Unit’s open 
hangar, friends and family of four fallen of-ficers and one police dog would soon lay eyes on a flying memorial for their loved 
ones.
“We have folks who are family of some 
of our fallen officers, and we’re here at our 
aviation facility, so I know that a lot of you are putting the two and two together,” said 
GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias.
As the radio in Tobias’ hand crackled, 
a helicopter emerged behind neighboring 
bushes.
While the helicopter hovered into view, 
Sally Dahlem’s hair billowed in the air cur-rent. 
She lost her husband, Lt. Corey Dahlem, 
to a drunken driver in 2007.As the helicopter’s tail faced the crowd, 
Dahlem saw her husband’s name painted among the names of three other officers and police dog Gero – all killed while serv-
ing the community.
“It’s a tough time for officers now, so 
it’s something positive for the police de-
partment and lets the community know that they do make sacrifices,” she said.
The helicopter, a 1970 Bell OH-58, need-
ed repairs after salt in the air corroded its paint and metal, said Officer Justin Poirot.
When choosing the helicopter’s new 
paint scheme, Poirot had the idea to create a flying memorial.
“To me, these officers are watching 
over us and now they’re on a machine that is also watching over the citizens of 
Gainesville,” he said.
The repairs cost $50,000 — paid for with 
contraband forfeiture funds, Tobias said.
In 2001, a car hit Officer Scott Baird, 
who was trying to remove a batting cage 
placed on the road.His brother, Buddy Baird, said he feels 
a connection with the local community and its law enforcement, which honors the family’s loss with a candlelighting vigil ev-ery year.
“Gainesville has just gone above and 
beyond ever since the incident happened,” he said.
Baird’s mother, Kelly Gaudet, said she’ll 
know her son and his fellow officers are 
watching over the city when she hears the 
helicopter.
“It’ll be 16 years for me in February, and 
it’s amazing that they’re still doing things 
to remember our fallen officers,” she said.
Mayor Ed Braddy closed the ceremony 
with a proclamation certifying the helicop-
ter — tail number N911GV — as a memo-rial.
“No words can express the gratitude of 
a city for those who have fallen and to ex-press what it really means,” Braddy said to the crowd.
“May each flight allow the memory of 
those officers to continue to watch over the city of Gainesville from above.”  A memorial in the sky 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Artist Jean Garibaldi paints a canvas at the 34th Annual Downtown Festival & 
Art Show on Sunday. The $100,000 festival covered downtown Gainesville from Friday through Sunday.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
To support March of Dimes’ 
campaign for Prematurity Aware-
ness Month, two historic build-
ings in Gainesville will glow pur-
ple this week.
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
downtown lit up purple Sunday 
evening using its LED lighting 
system, managing director Jessi-ca Hurov said. She said UF’s Cen-tury Tower will also participate in the campaign and glow purple beginning today.
Both will run through Sun-
day, covering World Prematurity 
Awareness Day on Tuesday.
Hurov said it is a national 
campaign in which most of the 
country’s cities participate.
“A lot of iconic buildings 
raise awareness for what March of Dimes does,” she said. “The Empire State Building does it, for example.”
Tammy Dygert, the execu-
tive director for the North Cen-tral Florida Division of March of Dimes, said last year was the first year Century Tower was lit up for the campaign. 
Dygert has a background in theater and said the purple color was achieved using a piece of technology called gel lighting.
“It was a wonderful addition 
to the month of November, not only for prematurity, but also for raising much-needed funds,” she said.
Last year, 100 countries lit 
landmarks in purple on World Prematurity Awareness Day. The Empire State Building and Niag-ara Falls both glowed purple last 
year, Dygert said.
“Premature birth is the No. 1 killer of babies and also the lead-
ing cause of death in children un-der the age of 5,” she said. “Most people don’t realize that.”
Dygert’s own daughter was 
a statistic. Thanks to March of Dimes, which developed a treat-ment called surfactant lung ther-apy, her daughter is a healthy 
8-year-old today.
The Gators March for Babies 
Walk is Sunday, she said.
“It’s a great way to show sup-
port,” she said.
Historic buildings glow purple for premature babiesGiuseppe Sabella / Alligator Staff
Sally Dahlem, the widow of Lt. Corey 
Dahlem, stands next to a helicopter that was repainted to memorialize her hus-band and other fallen police officers. “I think it’s beautiful, ” she said. “It was a wonderful surprise. ”
“Premature birth is the No. 
1 killer of babies and also 
the leading cause of death in 
children under the age of 5.”
T ammy Dygert
Executive director for the 
North Central Florida Division of 
March of DimesLOCALFallen officers were honoredMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Sofia Calama, 4, pets a cow after filling her bowl with hay.
ABOVE:
Peter Boyd, a 35-year-old 
farmer, fills a cow horn with cow manure to be used for fertilization during the Swal-lowtail Farm Fall Festival. “The manure is perfect, ” he said. “It is fertility for next year. ” 
TOP LEFT:
Karen DeConna, 56-year-old owner of Jersey’s Creamery, sells handmade frozen custard during the Swallowtail Farm Fall Festival on Saturday. The Micanopy ice cream shop is named for the Jersey cattle DeConna’s farm raises. “My cow technically started the creamery seven years ago, ” she said.
BOTTOM LEFT:
From left: Summer Bolin, a 24-year-old UF Health Shands nurse, 18-year-old Olivia Roush and 20-year-old Briana Bolin wait for a hayride. “It’s my first time visiting the farm, ” said Briana, a police academy student in the Kenneth C. Thompson Institute of Public Safety at Polk State College.Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Onna Meyer, a 37-year-old photographer, teaches a young girl to hula-hoop at the Swallowtail Farm Fall Festival. She learned to hoop dance at a Bonnaroo music festival eight years ago and brought 30 hoops to the fall festival on Saturday to share with adults and children.A day on the farmMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
11-18-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For SaleMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
Eighth grader in need of tutoring in all sub-jects.Mon-Fri 3-6pm.Email with references and rates paula@trematerracustomhomes.com or call Mon-Fri 352 333-1945    11-16-15-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    11-20-15-7-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
IT/Customer Service Rep for DentalSoftware Company. M-F 8-5Competitive Pay and Benefits.Computer skills is a must.Send Resumè: dave@floridaprobe.com11-20-15-5-14
Church seeking pianist/worship leader for Sunday morning traditional evangelical (hymn-based) service.Email interest tofirstnaz5020@cfcoxmail.com.    11-20-15-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/16-11/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.    11-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
25 Lost & Found 24 Pets 20 Event Notices 15 Services 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Amanda Butler and the 
Florida women's basketball team will host  No. 7 Florida State tonight at 5:30 in the team's home opener. Read the story on pg. 16. KELVIN TAYLOR'S RUN 
WAS THE LATEST BIG 
PLAY BY UF THIS SEASON. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
COLUMBIA, S.C. — What a 
difference a year makes.
Last season, Florida couldn’t 
make the big plays when it mattered. 
Not only was former coach Will 
Muschamp and his coaching staff 
unable to develop talent on offense, the Gators also folded under pres-
sure and players couldn’t make big 
plays when they needed them most.
But this season, No. 11 Florida is making the plays to win games. 
Kelvin Taylor’s 53-yard run on 
3rd-and-8 late in the fourth quarter in Florida’s 24-14 win against South Carolina was the third play this year that has turned the tide for the Gators.
McElwain has repeatedly dem-
onstrated a willingness to call a big play when the Gators need to sway momentum back in their favor. 
The first came on freshman wide 
receiver Antonio Callaway’s game-winning 63-yard touchdown catch against Tennessee.
But prior to Callaway’s catch, 
quarterback Will Grier — who was ineffective for the first three quar-ters — was able to put together two game-changing drives that ended in touchdowns, including Callaway’s catch during Florida’s 28-27 come-from-behind win against the Volun-teers.
In 2014, former UF tight end 
Tevin Westbrook could’ve become the hero in Florida’s eventual 30-27 
loss to LSU. 
With the Gators down 27-24 and 
inside the 5-yard line, former start-
ing quarterback Jeff Driskel, dropped back to pass and rolled to his right. Westbrook was open in the endzone and Driskel threw the ball to the tight end with no one around him.
The ball hit Westbrook in his 
hands and he dropped it. 
After he dropped it, Westbrook 
fell to the ground in disbelief. 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Garcia, Clark advance to NCAA Championship
Along with garnering All-Southeastern Conference honors, redshirt seniors 
Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia each recorded top-five finishes at the NCAA South Regional Championships and advanced to the NCAA Championship as individuals. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF running back Kelvin T aylor sprints to the endzone during Florida's 24-14 win over South Carolina 
on Saturday at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina. 
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Ziva Recek used her rifle of an arm when 
she needed it most.
With Florida ahead by just one point at 24-
23 in the second set against Tennessee, the 
senior outside hitter took a pass from senior 
setter Mackenzie Dagostino and drilled it off of UT defensive specialist Claudia Coco’s face.
Coco couldn’t handle it and the ball fell to 
the floor, as the No. 15 Gators won a pivotal 
second set and went on to sweep Tennessee (25-21, 25-23, 25-19) Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
Florida (20-5, 12-4 Southeastern Confer-
ence) has now swept back-to-back matches and swept its opponents in 10 of its last 12 
matches.“Everyone loves to 
win,” Dagostino said, “but 
I think we also have to remember we’re getting 
closer and closer to tour-nament time, so we have to take away from the win what we did really well and what we can improve on.”
The Gators and Vols 
traded points early and often in the first set.
Down 9-8, Florida tied the score up with 
a Carli Snyder kill then began to pull away under Dagostino’s serve.UF won four straight points, which were 
capped off by one of Dagostino’s two topspin aces in the match.
Tennessee fought back later in the set, 
pulling within one, down 21-20. 
But the Gators fended off the Vols down 
the stretch and took set one 25-21.
Junior right-side hitter Alex Holston, 
who’d tallied 36 kills over her last two match-
es before UT, slammed six in the first set. 
The Olney, Maryland, native finished tied 
with a match-high 14 kills.
Holston has now compiled 50 kills over UF volleyball continues sweep streak against pesky Volunteers 
The team finished with 53 kills
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15Gators making game-winning plays
SEE BIG PLAYS,  PAGE 15MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
In the wake of Florida’s 59-
41 win over Navy on Friday, 
Mike White walked off the still-emptying court in Annapolis, Maryland, and into his crowded 
locker room. 
There, he was greeted with a 
round of applause from his play-
ers. 
His first win at Florida was of-
ficially recorded.
But instead of basking in the 
praise, White turned to Devin Robinson — the sophomore for-
ward who had worked all sum-
mer to hone his shot, to improve his perimeter defense, to crash the boards more consistently — and delivered a message.
“Just look back, and let it sink 
in,” White told Robinson in front of the rest of his players. 
"How much better you’ve 
gotten, how much more produc-tive you are than you were a month ago.”
When UF (1-0) faces North 
Carolina A&T (0-1) tonight at 8 in the O’Connell Center, the Gators will not only look for more evi-dence of Robinson’s growth, but also from the whole team.
On Friday, Robinson led the 
Gators in scoring off the bench and earned his first career dou-ble-double with 13 points and 10 rebounds, but production from the starters lacked. 
Forwards Dorian Finney-Smith and DeVon Walker com-bined for six points on 2-for-10 
shooting.
“I’ll say it over and over, and 
I’ll say it to our guys: I don’t care 
who starts,” White said. 
“I think DeVon Walker really 
played at a high level defensively … and, of course, Dorian playing the four, I expect to start a lot of games. So Devin is fighting those 
two guys.”
But while White doesn’t mind 
who starts, he demands preci-
sion and mistake-free basketball from those who do. 
Florida had 19 turnovers 
against Navy — 14 of them be-longed to the starters — bring-
ing its total to 42 in the first two 
games of the year including the 89-42 exhibition win against Palm Beach Atlantic on Nov. 5. 
Much of it had to do with 
poor passing.
“We honestly didn’t (get bet-
ter),” guard Kasey Hill said, who finished with three turnovers. 
“That’s still one area we have 
to get better in and value the ball more.”
White said Florida’s passes 
are being rushed at times, while others are simply missing their mark. White prepared for 
home opener against North Carolina A&T
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
Recek
“I’ll say it over and over, and 
I’ll say it to our guys: I don’t 
care who starts.”
Mike White
UF men's basketball coach14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
UF freshman running back Jordan Cronkrite runs into the end zone after a 41-yard touchdown reception in the first half against South Carolina. Cronkrite scored both a 
rushing and receiving touchdown against the Gamecocks on Saturda y, the first UF freshman running back to do so since DeShawn Wynn in 2003.
Photos by Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
UF defensive back Quincy Wilson (6) celebrates after getting the game-sealing interception in the fourth quarter.
RIGHT:
UF defensive end Jordan Sherit and linebacker Antonio Morrison record a tackle. Florida’s defense gave up just 201 yards of offense on Saturday.
Gators the best opportunity to win 
the football game with the parts that we have, and if we play that way, we’re pretty darn good.”
Barring injuries, there won’t be 
any drastic changes to the parts this team has for the rest of the season.
And through the last three 
games, the team has evolved into a grind-it-out, stingy football team that finds enough explosive plays to win.
It may not look pretty, but that 
doesn’t mean it’s any less impres-
sive what this group has accom-
plished so far.
“The art of winning is hard, 
guys,” McElwain said. 
“That’s what I really like about 
our guys. There’s never really any panic. They play in the moment, they play in the now, and they’ve figured out a way to sweep the 
East.”
It may sound simple, but it’s a 
big change from the past. 
“Last year we didn’t know how 
to win,” defensive back Jalen Ta-
bor said. “You saw us in a lot close games — LSU, Florida State, South Carolina — we just didn’t know how to win the game.
“That’s all it was last year. And 
this year, going through that, that’s how we learned how to win the game.”
Learning how to win comes 
from the top down, and it’s one of the main reasons why McElwain is one of, if not the, favorite for coach of the year, not just in the confer-ence, but also in all of college foot-ball.
Even former coach Steve Spur-
rier has stated his support of McEl-wain for the honor, a notion the 
current UF coach said was “hum-
bling” and a more of a compliment to the entire program than just to himself.
“What it does do is it speaks to 
the organization,” McElwain said. 
“It speaks to the players, the 
coaches, all the people that have kind of figured out that the diffi-
culty lies not in the new ideas but 
in escaping the old ones. We’ve got a whole organization that’s moving in a new direction.”
But with a roster largely similar 
to rosters of unsuccessful seasons of the recent past, there’s no deny-ing the impact that having a coach with the ability to accentuate his 
team’s strengths has made on the 
organization.
With the season winding down, 
and matchups against Florida At-lantic, Florida State and likely Alabama in the Southeastern Con-ference Championship Game, it’s tough to say if those strengths will be enough to make a champion-
ship run.
But if Florida can stick to its for-
mula and identity, this group will 
be a tough out for any opponent.
“I gotta tell you something 
about that locker room, man we got a bunch of winners,” McElwain said.
“We’ve got guys that have it fig-
ured out.”FOOTBALL,  from pg1Florida eyeing playoffsUF’s last three matches.
“She’s just good day in and day 
out,” Snyder said. 
“We always know what to ex-
pect from her.”
UT bounced back quickly in set 
two.
Back-to-back blocks and a kill 
put Tennessee ahead 5-2, but Flori-
da responded with authority.
Snyder pounded a kill then 
stepped behind the service line, be-fore UT committed two attack errors and Recek swooped in with a kill to 
pull ahead 6-5.
With the help of sophomore 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan’s 
arm, the Gators went on a 12-6 run to take an 18-11 lead.
Alhassan thumped four kills dur-
ing the run and put down a team-high five kills in the set. 
The Glenarden, Maryland, na-
tive finished the match with 10 of Florida’s 53 kills.
UF had trouble closing out the 
set, though, as the Vols muscled their way back to a one-point deficit at 23-22.Florida earned set point after a 
long rally finished with Holston hit-ting through two UT blockers for a kill. 
One point later, Recek ended it 
with her kill to win the set 25-23 and give UF a 2-0 match lead.
Like set two, the third set was 
close early on.
Both teams see-sawed points un-
til the Gators separated themselves when they needed to toward the end.
Up 18-17, Holston and Recek 
pelted two kills to go up 20-17.
Florida would then go on a 5-2 
run to take set three 25-19 and complete the sweep after Snyder smashed her 14th and final kill of 
the match. The sophomore outside 
hitter also added 11 digs to her sec-ond-highest kill total this season.
Dagostino had a front-row seat 
to Snyder’s performance.
“She was on fire,” Dagostino 
said. “It’s so much fun when you can trust a pin like that and know they’re gonna put any ball away.”
The Gators, who have three 
games remaining in the regular season, will next square off against LSU on the road Friday at 6 p.m.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore forward Devin Robinson dunks during Florida's 89-42 exhibition win over Palm Beach Atlantic on Nov. 5 in the 
O'Connell Center.  The Gators play their first home game tonight against North Carolina A&T. 
The players underwent passing drills on 
Saturday, and again on Sunday, and will 
continue them throughout the week.
“I don’t want people to think we have 
selfishness creeping in,” said White, who 
is accustomed to a passing-efficient offense 
after coaching the nation’s 2014-15 assist leader in Kenneth Smith (267) at Louisiana Tech. 
“I just don’t think that’s what we are. 
It’s not our biggest strength right now.”
Florida will also continue to work on its 
up-tempo offense, which didn’t manifest into as many transition opportunities over two games as it would have liked, forcing the Gators to run more offensive sets.
But the Gators still have time to clean up their play in the coming weeks — their next two opponents went a combined 22-
39 during last year’s regular season.
“Every team in the country, at this 
point, is realizing what their strengths 
and weaknesses are. It’s a process,” White said. 
“We hope in a couple months to be a 
better passing team than we are right now … and everything will take care of itself.”HOOPS,  from pg13
Gators hoping sophomore increases workloadVOLLEY,  from pg13Florida has the week off until Friday's road contest at LSU 
The play came back to haunt the Gators 
because they settled for a field goal, and LSU won the game by kicking a field goal as time expired.
Westbrook and Driskel once again were in-
volved in a big play against Florida State. 
With the Gators driving and holding a 9-0 
lead in the first quarter, Driskel threw a pass intended to Westbrook that was tipped. 
Seminoles linebacker Terrance Smith inter-
cepted the pass and returned it 94 yards for the touchdown. 
The 14-point swing was the turning point in 
the game as Florida lost by five, 24-19.
Against LSU this year, Callaway tied the 
game up at 28 when he returned a punt 72 yards for a touchdown. 
While the Gators lost the game 35-28 on a 
fake field goal, Callaway’s knack for the big play is something Florida would’ve desperately wanted in 2014. 
“Callaway, he’s a helluva player. He’s 
great,” Taylor said after the loss to the Tigers 
on Oct. 17. “He’s an explosive player, he’s gon-
na be a big part of our offense … he’s gonna keep getting better and better.”
Don't forget Austin Hardin’s game-win-
ning field goal in the Gators’ 9-7 win against Vanderbilt. If it was last year, luck might not have been on Florida’s side and Hardin might’ve missed it.
And then there’s South Carolina.  
Florida blew a fourth quarter lead last sea-
son when it had two kicks blocked — one punt 
and one field goal — that gave the Gamecocks life, and the Gators eventually lost 23-20 in overtime.  
But with the momentum on its side Satur-
day, South Carolina couldn’t stop Taylor as he broke free for his most longest and most cru-cial play of the season.BIG PLAYS,  from pg13Taylor's 53 -yard 
run was his 
longest this seasonAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF huddles together to celebrate during Florida's 3-0 win against Alabama on Friday night in the 
O'Connell Center. By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Following a difﬁ  cult game on 
the road, the Florida women’s bas-
ketball team will only see things 
get tougher in its home opener.
The 97-91 loss to Temple on 
Friday is out of the players’ minds, 
but No. 7 Florida State will pose an 
even bigger challenge at 5:30 p.m. 
in the O’Connell Center.
Coach Amanda Butler said  
while the Seminoles will present a difﬁ  cult challenge, they have yet to 
prove themselves. 
And regardless, the Gators (0-
1) are more worried about focus-
ing on what they can improve on 
rather than how talented FSU is. 
“At this part of the year, there 
really aren’t proven upsets yet,” 
she said. 
“Of course, from the outside, 
that’s how it will be broadcast and that sort of thing, but I think that any team in this scenario — their belief in themselves, who they 
believe they are — has got to be 
what’s really really important.”
A major key to the game for 
Florida will be staying out of foul trouble, which the Gators were un-able to do in the season opener. 
Junior forward Ronni Williams, 
who was billed as an All-South-eastern Conference Second Team player in the preseason, fouled out with more than seven minutes left 
to play. 
Williams said she has to know 
who the referees are and adjust her 
game accordingly. 
Butler had other ideas. 
“We’ve gotta play with more 
discipline. I think the way the ofﬁ  -
cials called the game is the way the game is going to be called,” Butler 
said.
“We’ve gotta be disciplined as 
defenders and not put the other 
team on the line that early.”
Florida hasn’t had any luck 
against the Seminoles as of late. 
In the last three matchups be-
tween the in-state rivals, the Gators are 0-3, losing by an average of 
21.7 points each time.
Florida State returns almost all 
of its core starters from a year ago, 
including Adut Bulgak. 
Last season, the 6-foot-4 Ca-
nadian import led FSU in scoring with 12.3 points per game and 9.5 rebounds per game.
In total, FSU will return four 
players on their roster who aver-aged double-ﬁ  gure scoring last sea-son. 
For comparison’s sake, the 
Gators had one. 
That being said, redshirt senior 
guard Cassie Peoples got off to a hot start from the ﬁ  eld in the sea-
son opener by scoring 18 points, 
which is almost double her average from last season.
Peoples, who helps run Florida’s 
dual-point guard system with fel-
low redshirt senior Carlie Needles, 
said that scoring isn’t going to be the problem against FSU, but that UF needs to work on its defense if 
it hopes to avoid an 0-2 start.
“I think that’s the biggest thing 
coming off of this loss is that we 
can’t give up 97 points. Period,” Peoples said. 
“Yeah we had turnovers, yeah 
we had this and that, but we’re giv-ing up transition 3-pointers, we’re giving up open shots to people that 
are gonna knock down open jump 
shots.”
Peoples was Florida’s leading 
scorer in the season opener, fol-lowed by junior transfer Simone 
Westbrook with 14 points.
“We reﬂ  ected on our mistakes, 
and tomorrow we’re gonna go out 
and perfect them,” Peoples said 
with a grin. 
“And, yeah, bad time for Florida 
State.”16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Cassie Peoples dribbles up the court during Florida’s 64-56 loss 
to T ennessee on Feb. 8 in the O’Connell Center. 
UF to host rival Seminoles tonight
UF’S LAST 
FIVE GAMES 
AGAINST 
FLORIDA 
STATE
Dec. 7, 2014: 
Florida State 77
Florida 51
Nov. 21, 2013: 
Florida State 76
Florida 68
Nov. 15, 2012: 
Florida State 98
Florida 67
Nov. 17, 2011:  
Florida 72
Florida State 58
Dec. 28, 2010:  
Florida State 74
Florida 72Florida lost its opener