We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 17 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
Sophomore shares ﬁ  rst place 
in Gators’ ﬁ  rst tournament
Florida ﬁ  nished fourth as a team, pg. 14
Horses roam at local retirement farm
It’s looking for volunteers, pg. 3
Audit ﬁ  nds GRU customers are overcharged
It’s because of an error, pg. 9UF student makes it to Top 10 in Miss America competition
She will spend the next year performing her 
Miss Florida duties, pg. 8
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Registered nurses across the country will 
soon be able to further their careers through 
UF — from their homes.
Starting Spring 2016, registered nurses 
with an associate degree can begin UF On-
line classes to obtain a Bachelor of Science 
in Nursing.Tracy Wright, spokeswoman for UF’s 
College of Nursing, said they chose to offer 
the bachelor’s degree through UF Online so registered nurses with busy lives can take classes in a ﬂ  exible and affordable way.
“They’re working in the ﬁ  eld every day,” 
she said. “This is just a way for them to prepare for that next step in their nursing career.”
While people with associate and bach-
elor’s degrees are eligible to become regis-tered nurses, those with bachelor’s degrees tend to acquire more leadership positions, Wright said.
The addition of the UF Online bachelor’s 
in nursing program also comes as a reac-tion to the Institute of Medicine’s recent recommendation to increase the proportion of nurses with bachelor’s degrees, Wright said.  
UF nursing junior Taylor Claudio said 
she’s skeptical of the program’s ability to teach about human interactions. 
“You actually have to interview patients 
and learn how to do things like make a bed with somebody still sleeping in it, and I just don’t think you can learn that from a book,” the 20-year-old said.
Claudio said most people pursuing the 
bachelor’s degree aspire to leadership posi-tions, and an online program may not be  Nursing program to be added to UF Online
DOCUMENTS WERE ISSUED 
TUESDAY.
By Jacquelyn Celona
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ofﬁ  cial documents will now pronounce 
couples spouse and spouse instead of hus-
band and wife.
On Tuesday, Alachua County clerks re-ceived revised forms, including marriage licenses and divorce forms, that replace the words ‘husband’ and ‘wife’ with ‘spouse.’
“There are no complications with the 
adjustment of these forms — this is what 
we’re here for,” said Edward Stiles, 58, as-
sistant clerk and chief deputy recorder at the Alachua County Courthouse.
  Florida ofﬁ  cials issued the new forms 
Sunday to avoid confusion about gender, Stiles said. He said he hopes the court web-site will reﬂ  ect the changes by Friday.
“The wording was very important be-
cause it not only affects (the Ofﬁ  ce of) Vital Statistics, it is also affects the ofﬁ  cial mar-
riage license that is recorded in the clerk’s 
ofﬁ  cial records,” Stiles said. “It is important that all forms remain consistent.”
The annual maintenance on their soft-
ware will cover all expenditures caused by the adjustments of the forms.
“I think using the word ‘spouse’ will 
shape how same-sex marriage will be so-cially conceived in the future,” said Alexa Gebert, 19, a UF political science sopho-
more. “The reason why people disagree 
with same-sex marriage has to do with it being so instilled in the legal system, and now that it is being legally changed it will give the movement more strength.” Official marriage documents changed, now say ‘spouse’ LOCAL
By Sara Marino
Contributing Writer
The radio station 100.9 
Smooth-FM, which used to play 
contemporary hit radio (CHR) top 40, has recently transitioned to a smooth and relaxing station.
Chad Hallmark, the director of 
JVC Broadcasting said, “We have a similar station in West Palm Beach, which does an incredible job with connecting with its lis-teners.” 
Hallmark and the rest of the 
station hope to have a similar outcome here in Gainesville with this new transition.
Hallmark said 100.9 originally 
was a smooth jazz radio station and was bought back in June 2013 due to some changes in the FCC (Federal Communications Commission).At that time, 99.5 was the 
CHR top 40 station until JVC Broadcasting had to sell it. The formerly known party station, 100.9, started to play the top 40 until Saturday at  midnight when it  became a smooth and relaxing station.
“Nothing in Gainesville cur-
rently serves that demographic for that (smooth and relaxing mu-sic) genre,” Hallmark said. “Soft adult contemporary (music) will be able to target people who are about 35 years old.” 100.9 switches from 
party to smooth music  
 Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
WHO WHALE YOU BE? 
Arianne Lazaro, an 18-year-old UF materials engineering freshman, peels off a yellow foam whale with 
her name on it during the Freshman Leadership Program’s mentor reveal Tuesday. The program pairs incoming freshmen and sophomores with student mentors that will guide them through college life.   
It will start in Spring 2016“They’re working in the ield every 
day. This is just a way for them to 
prepare for that next step in their 
nursing career.”
Tracy Wright
UF College of Nursing spokeswoman
SEE NURSE,  PAGE 4
SEE RADIO,  PAGE 4“Soft adult contemporary 
(music) will be able to target 
people who are about 35 
years old.”
Chad Hallmark
JVC Broadcasting directorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Interfaith Alliance for 
Immigrant Justice
“Immigration: Action through Collaboration,”  a free confer-ence on immigration issues, 
will be from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. Saturday at the UF Levin College of Law Room 355B. It will bring student and commu-nity activists together for farm worker and immigrant rights.  For more information, contact Caroline Nickerson cnicker-son@ufl.edu.Park(ing) Day
UF Student Chapter of 
American Society of Landscape 
Architects (UF SCASLA)  is hosting Gainesville’s represen-tation of Park(ing) Day from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday at 101 N. Main St. It is a global event that focuses on the impact of green communal spaces on an urban context by 
placing pop-up parks in park-
ing spaces. More information can be found at http://parking-day.org/about-parking-day/.Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 17
HIGH  88° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello1
1312111098765432Publisher of
and
announces the opening for the position of
STUDENT MEMBER AT LARGE 
of the Board of Directors
This unpaid position may be filled by a
graduate or undergraduate student.
The application for this position is available at the reception desk at the entrance 
of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W. University Avenue 
through Friday, September 25th. It must be returned to the same location by 
Monday, September 28th. Part of the application consists of short essays in answer to specific questions. 
More information is available for an applicant’s mandatory reading at the time an 
application is picked up. Applicants should allow themselves 10 to 15 minutes of reading time when picking up an application. All returned applications will be copied and available to be read at The Alligator building prior to the selection meeting. 
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The Alligator
offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday, November 20th at 2:00 pm. 
Applicants must be present to be considered. Applicants must be currently enrolled, degree-seeking college or university students. Board of Directors applicants cannot be current or recent past employees or trainees of Campus Communications, Inc.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc.
and
announces the opening for the position of
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and final printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval confirms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGESWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
SHE REPORTEDL Y USED IT 
AT COX AND GAMESTOP .
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
 
Gainesville Police arrested a local woman 
Monday afternoon after she reportedly used a 
BB gun to pocket more than $1,000.
Just before 2:45 p.m., Keshunte Taylor, 
19, entered Cox Communications and asked an employee about extending the deadline for her bill payment, according to police reports.
She then raised a BB gun from her waist-
band and held it toward him, according to the reports.
He told Taylor to get the fake gun out of 
his face and leave, according to the reports. 
She brieﬂ  y argued with three employees 
before leaving for a robbery redo at the near-by GameStop, according to the reports.
After waiting for surrounding customers 
to leave, Taylor again revealed the BB gun and demanded cash, ac-cording to the reports.
An employee couldn’t 
open the safe, instead giv-ing Taylor about $1,100 from two registers, accord-ing to the reports.
A witness reported that 
Taylor escaped in a taxi, and police called the driver 
for directions, according to the reports.
Taylor heard the call and reportedly tried to jump from the moving car, according to the reports.  
Taylor was arrested after the taxi stopped 
at Southeast 16th Avenue and Southeast Wil-liston Road. 
Authorities then found the reported cash 
and BB gun, according to the reports. 
Police arrested Taylor on two charges of 
armed robbery and took her to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, she re-mains in lieu of a $50,000 bond.
 
Police:  Gainesville woman used BB gun in armed robberyBy Genesis Calo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Last month, Cheyenne was 
found abandoned.
In that moment, she was known 
as 710 Stray, a 30-year-old horse 
the Okeechobee Animal Control found wandering on a country road.
But then, the frail and thin Bay 
Roan Grade horse became Chey-enne — the newest resident at Mill Creek Farm, a horse retirement fa-cility designed to give abandoned 
and retired horses a home.
With ﬁ  ve new horses added 
to the farm over the summer, the 
farm is looking for assistance to 
accommodate the abandoned and 
abused horses.
The farm, located at 20307 NW 
County Road 235A, has 131 horses, 
two donkeys and a mule. Individu-als can sponsor an animal for $50 a month. However, volunteers are needed to help maintain the farm’s land and care for the horses.
“There’s a lot of physical work 
that goes into this,” said Paul Gregory, the farm’s president. “People come here and think how great the farm looks, and it does look good because we take care of 
the horses the way we take care of 
this property.”
During the week, volunteers, 
which Gregory said often include 
groups of UF fraternity and soror-
ity members as well as individuals, can help ﬁ  x fences, cut weeds and load feed. On Saturday, which is the only day the farm is open for 
visitors, volunteers can groom the 
horses and work at the visitor wel-come kiosk.
Lynne Brennan, 62, ﬁ  rst got in-
volved with the farm’s volunteer program after she saw a picture of a horse being rescued in a local newspaper.
“I never read articles about ani-
mals because they make me cry, but the caption said rescue so I thought, ‘Well I’ll give it a chance and read it,’” Brennan said. “I did, and it was all about the farm and 
this horse, and I called the farm 
the next day and came out to vol-unteer the day after.”
She said she loves being at the 
farm knowing what it is and what it stands for.
“If they didn’t come here, 
where would they be?” she asked. “They’d probably be in a state fa-
cility in a stall for the rest of their 
life working hard and being rid-den to death. The lucky ones come here.”
The horses must be at least 20 
years old to stay at the farm, Bren-nan said. 
With the oldest horse at 43 
years old, many of the horses suf-
fer from arthritis, hip problems 
and vision problems.
“Some of these horses have 
never known what love is,” Bren-
nan said. “Now when they come 
here to the farm, they ﬁ  nally know what it means to be loved. It is heaven on earth for these beautiful horses.”  Horses roam at local retirement farm 
T aylor
It’s looking for volunteers
Courtesy to the Alligator
 Paul Gregory, president of Mill Creek Farm, stands by the 
farm’s newest equine member, Cheyenne, a 30-year-old Bay Roan Grade horse. Mill Creek Farm houses horses that have been abandoned, neglected or abused.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Janelle Roberts posed for a picture with 
George Smathers Friday.
Smathers was only there as a black-
and-white cardboard cutout, but Roberts, 
a 21-year-old UF microbiology and cell sci-ence senior, smiled wide for the photo and 
received free items from Smathers Library.
The libraries gave away free T-shirts, 
pencils, water bottles and other items to 
grab students’ attention of plans to renovate the Library West colonnade.
The renovation will bring tables and 
benches to the colonnade, Dean of Univer-sity Libraries Judith Russell said. 
The new space will also be home to a 
skylight, ceiling fans and charging stations at tables and along the brick walls. All the electricity will be solar-powered.
Roberts said she didn’t know much 
about the renovation before Friday.
“There’s already a lot of people who 
hang out around Plaza of the Americas and eat there and try to study there,” she said. “It’ll make it more convenient.”While the $1.4 million project does not 
have a start or end date yet, Russell said the library is making progress on finding do-nors. Once the money comes in, the project will be completed in about 77 days.
A few donors are interested, but no com-
mitments have been made yet, she said.
“If you observe the colonnade, you’ll 
see that it’s actively used by students, but there’s no seating, no power,” Russell said. “The idea that we could use that space ef-fectively and deliberately for outdoor gath-ering and study space seems really appeal-ing.”Russell said the renovations will only 
disrupt student traffic around the library during the first few days of demolition. Af-ter that, the colonnade will be built in sec-tions so that one part will always be open for students to access the library.
Lara David, 19, a UF civil engineering 
freshman, sat with her back against a col-onnade column.
She said $1.4 million is a lot of money to 
spend, but she’s looking forward to having more study space.
“If it’s good quality, I think it’s worth it,” 
she said. 
Library West seeks donations for colonnade project
LOCAL
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
berickson@alligator.org
With new students comes 
new marketing opportunities for 
Gainesville businesses. 
In the past month, local restau-
rants like The Coop, Know Where 
Coffee, Jimmy John’s and Subway have offered free food and drinks to students, and Blaze Pizza, at 3617 Archer Road, is jumping on the band-wagon today. The restaurant will be giving out 
free 11-inch pizzas to UF students from 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
“It’s a good opportunity to wel-
come (students) into the store,” said Rachel Bledsoe, media representative for Blaze Pizza. 
In marketing, it’s important to 
let people know the business exists, wrote Steven Kirn, UF executive di-rector of the Center for Retailing Edu-cation and Research, in an email.
“Especially at the start of a new 
Fall semester, there are many new students on campus, and it’s impor-tant to establish your business as a good choice early,” Kirn said.
Last Wednesday, The Coop on 
University Avenue gave away chick-en tenders and sweet tea.
After trying more traditional mar-
keting techniques, such as mailbox stuffers and other fliers, the restau-rant found free sampling was the best way to reach new students, said Darren Kay, The Coop’s owner and manager.
“People tend to tune out fliers, but we thought, ‘Hey, college stu-dents don’t turn down free food,’” Kay said. 
The cost of the free samples is 
about the same or cheaper than other marketing options and is more effec-tive, he said.
Christina Magrini said she is ex-
cited to go to Blaze Pizza tomorrow. 
“(The businesses) entice you 
to come and experience different places,” the 18-year-old architecture freshman said, “and you don’t have 
to pay for it.”
Restaurants offer free food to attract new studentsNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
In a long exposure photograph, pedestrians walk under the current Library West colonnade on Monday afternoon. The new area will include tables, benches, ceil-ing fans, charging stations and a skylight.
Courtesy to the Alligator
This photo is a rendering of the new Library West colonnade and displays the new renovations, which will cost $1.4 million.
able to teach the people skills required of them. Wright said that while there is no in-person training, these students would already have hands-on experience as reg-istered nurses.
“We recognize that so many of these 
nurses will be working full-time, will be balancing and juggling a professional ca-reer with everything else in their life,” she said.
Tuition for the program will be $129.18 
per credit hour, including fees, for Florida residents and $552.62 per credit hour for nonresidents, according to the UF Online website. UF students who are taking class-es on campus pay about $210 per credit hour if they are Florida residents.  Out-of-state undergraduates pay about $953 per credit hour.
Wright said the College of Nursing had 
been planning to add this five-semester program to UF Online for about a year.
Lauren Harmer, a UF nursing junior, 
said although she doesn’t think the expe-rience will be the same as coming to UF, online students should still be able to suc-ceed.
“It really depends on how much effort 
and work that person puts in and how in-terested they are in expanding their knowl-edge base,” the 19-year-old said.
NURSE,  from pg 1Tuition will cost less for online
“This is something that we see someone 
turning on when they wake up, listening to us at work and on their drive home from,” Hallmark said.  “We welcome people to try out the new station and feel we will pick up people of a range of 35 and up.”
Although this change was aimed at an 
older group than UF’s population, UF stu-dents still are affected by this adjustment.
“Coming from Miami, it’s hard to adjust 
to the small amount of stations that the Gainesville area has to offer,” said Jessica Rodriguez, a UF journalism sophomore. “When I’m in my car or getting ready for a party, I usually turn on the radio seeking upbeat modern hits. 100.9 was one of two 
stations with this type of music.”
“I would say I’m a bit upset that my 
radio station choices have been narrowed 
down to so little,” Rodriguez, 19, said.
Randy Oram, 19, a UF aerospace engi-
neering sophomore, said, “I remember they were EDM/dance primarily when I first got here, and they switched to top 40, which I wasn’t a fan of. They were the only station that played EDM as far as I knew, so they should’ve just stayed with that.”
“Soft and relaxing would allow us to do 
a lot more things with charity drives and would be great for advertisers as well as lis-teners,” Hallmark said.RADIO,  from pg 1It originally played smooth jazzWhere Have Gators 
Been Chomping?
9/2 Subway:  
free 6-inch sub
9/9 The Coop:   
free chicken and sweet tea
9/14 Jimmy John’s:  
free mini sandwiches 
9/16 Blaze Pizza:  
free personal pizzaBy Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer 
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
The decision to either give students liv-
ing in Inﬁ  nity Hall a UF student senator or 
group them in District A was a heated topic 
at Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meet-
ing. 
Connor Corzine, an RA for Inﬁ  nity, asked 
Student Government to reconsider having Inﬁ  nity be represented as part of District A. Corzine had served as a replacement UF 
freshman senator during Spring 2015. 
Districts are based on ZIP codes, where 
District A is 32601 and Inﬁ  nity Hall’s is 
32601 but because the mail goes through 
UF, the mailing address is 32612.
The resolution went to its second reading 
at Tuesday’s meeting.
Corzine, 19, said both of his bosses, 
Hannah Black and Ryan Winget, were upset about potentially being placed in District A.
“Both want representation in this body,” the UF political science sophomore said.
Inﬁ  nity residents should be represented 
with their own seat, Corzine said.
“I’m representing them right now,” he 
said. “That’s not my job, that’s your jobs.”
Charlie Brown Jr. (Swamp, Agriculture) 
said Inﬁ  nity should be represented as part 
of District A.
“I think they’ll be able to represent the 
constituency very well,” he said.
Sen. Preston Jones (Access, Hume) 
spoke in opposition of the resolution, saying Inﬁ  nity should have its own senator.
He said SG needs to ask students living 
in Inﬁ  nity what they want because there are 
a lot of shades of gray regarding the issue. 
“No one’s listening to them,” he said. 
“No one’s asked them.” WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Ingmarie Peck, now retired, photographs butterﬂ  ies feeding on bananas at the Butterﬂ  y Rainforest within 
the Florida Museum of Natural History on Sept. 8. “I like to visit pretty often with my daughter, ” Peck said. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Sean Carey (left), chairman of the information and communications committee, and Jason Richards, chairman of the judiciary committee, speak to Student Government about a new senator for Inﬁ  nity Hall on Tuesday night at the UF Levin College of Law. 
IT’S THE MUSEUM’S 
10TH ANNUAL 
BUTTERFL Y FESTIVAL.
By John Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
Butterflies will flutter and 
perch on Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History visitors during it’s 
annual Butterfly Fest.
On Saturday, the museum will 
host its 10th annual Butterfly 
Fest, where butterflies that have 
recently emerged from cocoons 
will flirt with visitors.
The museum will partner with 
the Florida Fish and Wildlife Con-servation Commission to launch 
a new butterfly component to its 
“Wings Over Florida” program, said Paul Ramey, assistant direc-tor of marketing and public rela-
tions for the museum.  
The program consists of six 
achievement levels for butter-
fly watching, where participants complete exercises similar to bird 
watching to earn certificates, he said.  
Visitors can start earning a 
basic-level certificate in the wild-flower garden at the museum.
This year’s theme, “Connec-
tions to Nature,” will help visi-
tors learn more about the envi-
ronment, Ramey said.
Museum admission is free, 
but the event will cost $10.50 
for adults and $9 for Florida resi-dents and students, according to 
the Florida Museum website.
Ramey said the event will in-
clude presentations on butterfly 
gardening, identifying butterflies 
and how to attract plant pollina-
tors.
“We hope that (the event) will 
help better connect our visitors to nature,”  he said.
UF geography graduate stu-
dent Joe Andreoli said he found out about the Butterfly Fest when he took his parents to the mu-
seum. 
“I am looking forward to any 
tips the presenters have,” the 
23-year-old said.Florida Museum of Natural History celebrates butterﬂ  ies
Senator or District A: SG debates Inﬁ  nity representation
“I think they’ll be able to represent the 
constituency very well.”
Charlie Brown Jr.
Swamp senatorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
At the beginning of last year’s Fall se-
mester, a series of frightening assaults on young women took place on and off campus. I’m sure everyone who was at UF remembers these assaults; they 
were all over the news. The university sent out safety notices daily and UPD parked ostensibly empty cars on campus for long periods of time — I’m still not sure how much safety an obvi-ously empty cop car guarantees, but I appreci-ate the effort.
These assaults were horrible, unjust and frightening. 
At the time, I felt our campus came together a little more, standing in solidarity against these attacks and everything 
they represented. Thankfully, this semester there have 
been fewer reported sexual assaults, albeit more armed robberies. But not so thankfully, it seems that many peo-ple at UF have forgotten about them.
Was the individual assaulting these women ever 
caught? Upsettingly, no. Has there been an end to sexual assault on our campus just because it’s not making the news? Certainly not. Is the university still doing its best to make sure that this campus is free from assault, informa-
tive about consent and preventative measures, and active 
against victim-blaming? Not really.
You might be thinking: Sally, calm down. It’s ﬁ  ne, 
there haven’t been any assaults, and if there were, then duh, the university would react accordingly.
Sorry, but that’s just not true. There have been more 
recent attacks, but they just haven’t attracted the UF alerts that ring up on our phone screens.
Every day, victims do not come forward, uncertain of 
their circumstances or shamed into silence. Every day, as-saults take place even if they are not the big-scary-dude-comes-out-of-the-bushes type of attack. Men can be vic-tims. Friends and acquaintances can be attackers.
The idea that sexual assault must ﬁ  t absolutely into the 
conventional framework of a woman being attacked by a strange man while walking alone at night is unhealthy and unrealistic.This framework promotes victim-blaming 
and reinforces the idea of women being the weaker sex and needing constant protection against assault rather than being worthy of liv-ing a life without assault in the ﬁ  rst place. 
UF needs to keep this in mind.The other day, I heard some people joking 
about the Walk Safe program, which has quite suddenly been abandoned this semester appar-ently due to lack of funding. I won’t go into what they said, but it was pretty unsavory. It 
compared the program to sex trafﬁ  cking — What? Really? — and it was offensive to just about everyone. It inspired this column, and it inspired my call for UF not to abandon 
its efforts to prevent sexual assault.
If people who go to the school we’re all proud to be 
part of can be so callous and uncaring about assault and 
rape, then we need to work together to put an end to this way of thinking.
The Walk Safe program is a good example of how UF 
was called to action but later fell short on its promise to provide a safe campus for students. Walk Safe provided students free late-night walking-escort services to students 
living on campus and Sorority Row from Library West. 
The program had its faults, but I deﬁ  nitely saw people using it. It promoted the ideals of safety and solidarity against, assault which UF doesn’t seem as obviously dedi-cated to.
Now it’s been discontinued, and as the Alligator wrote 
in a recent article, “Students have one fewer option for getting home safely.” Should the university be cutting funding toward these safety efforts and offering students 
fewer options for a safe environment? We put a lot of 
money into this university for a lot of awesome things, but the struggle to combat and prevent sexual assault should be further up on the list. If UF simply must end the Walk Safe program, it needs to offer something else in its place — hopefully it can be something better.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations 
junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Where did Walk Safe and other measures go? Although a 
time-honored 
tradition, cramming 
is counterproductive
Although it feels like it was only yesterday many of 
us migrated back to Gainesville to begin yet an-other Fall semester, we are now in our fourth week 
of classes. In college, the passage of time is accom-
panied by both the accumulation of knowledge and 
the piling up of assignments, both of which are indicators that, yes, exams are right around the corner.
Studying for exams in college is a tricky proposition. 
What you’ll be studying and for how long relates to how you carry yourself in other respects. For some students, the act of reviewing material is the icing on the proverbial study cake because they attend class on a regular basis and do 
their homework as it’s assigned to them. For others, study-
ing is a leviathan to be conquered and slain, having spent their time texting in class and boozing it up on weekdays. Meanwhile, there are those students who never quite shook 
off their counterproductive habits from high school. Al-
though they may be perfectly prepared for the task ahead, they wait until 3 a.m. to even open up their textbooks.
We’re not going to lord over the Student Body and say 
there is a right way and a wrong way to study for exams, 
but some methods are certainly more conducive than oth-
ers. However, like we discussed in Monday’s editorial on hangovers, just because you know something is right doesn’t mean you’re going to put it into practice.
That is why we implore our college-aged readers to drop 
your damn phones and get to work. We get it, procrastina-tion can not only be fun but also a super useful crutch to justify why you only got an 83, rather than an 89, on your exam, essay or insert long-form school assignment here. But 
check this out: What if you got that 83, but knew in your 
heart you had worked responsibly for it? Rather than play-ing out a fantasy where your every-scholastic failure was due to you not managing your time properly, or conversely, 
where your every victory HAD to come at the cost of sleep 
deprivation; what if you did well or failed simply by putting the work in at a reasonable time in a reasonable fashion? This may rob your successes and failures of some misplaced sense of high-wrought drama, but it sure as hell feels bet-
ter than trying to go to sleep at 2 p.m. after being up for 36 
hours.
Cramming material only serves to make you tired, irri-
table and, in all likelihood, less mentally sound to make 
logical decisions on your exams. Although the art of respon-
sibly dividing up your study time is something many have yet to master — and many probably never will — it is an ideal that ought to be strived for rather than dismissed al-together. We’ve all spent nights at Marston or Library West 
crying into our triple-shot macchiatos. What we’re implying 
to you is: What if you didn’t have to?
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
There is already enough 
going on among school, friends, family and daily activities that you don’t want to worry about fi-
nances and how you are going to handle them after you graduate. You are in college, for one thing, to earn a degree so that you can get the job you want — a job that will earn you a paycheck that you will try to make the most out of. But, if you graduate with little to no credit history or a bad credit score, then you could find your 
paycheck might not go as far as you want 
it to.
After you graduate, you might have to 
face a lot of financial decisions. Do you want to buy a car or a house? Do you have stu-dent loans that you need to pay off? All of these things most likely come with one factor that will reduce the power your hard-earned money has, and that is interest. Interest is 
the fee you pay to borrow money to purchase 
something that you need right now but don’t have all of the money for. The lower your credit score, the higher your interest rate will be, which means you will pay more over the length of the loan than if you had a higher credit score and qualified for a lower inter-est rate. By setting up your credit history and working to improve your credit score while 
in college, you will be able to obtain all of 
these things for the lowest interest rate pos-sible once you graduate, allowing your hard-earned money to go further.
One of the fastest and easiest ways to 
work toward an excellent credit score is by getting a credit card. It is also the fastest and easiest way to ruin your credit score, if used irresponsibly. Just like loans, credit cards 
have a process to qualify. Student credit 
cards make this process easier, as it is under-standable that college students have not had time to establish their credit scores and are looking to start building it.
Utilizing a student credit card to help build 
and maintain a good credit score is pretty simple and straight-forward. All you need to do is pay your bill on time each month, ideal-
ly in full, to avoid wasting your money on in-
terest. Almost all college students have debit cards they use to buy things. Think of a stu-dent credit card as the same thing. Use it to buy things that you have the money in your account to pay for. Another thing to know is that it is not about the amount of money you put on your credit card and pay off, it is just about the fact that you are paying 
off what you do spend and pay on 
time. Something like a tank of gas each month is good enough to get your credit history going in the right direction.
There are many student credit 
cards available, and all of the features and technical words that come along with them can be intimidating. Some come with re-
wards like cash back for the money you 
spend, some have variable annual percent-age rates — if you pay your bill in full each month, then you will never have to worry APR. There is a grace period you have to pay your bill each month. There are plenty of resources to help you  find the answers to any questions that you have. One example is the Casavvy Classroom, where you can find 
the answers to many common questions that 
can prepare you decide which student credit card is right for you.
After you find the student credit card you 
want, you have to apply for it. If you get denied, then you can wait for them to mail you the reason for your denial, or you can give them a call and they should tell you the reason over the phone. You want to know 
what the reason for denial is before applying 
for your next card, as each application has a short-term negative affect on your credit score. Before applying, you might want to check out the Card Match Program. This pro-gram matches you with targeted credit card offers based on your credit profile to find op-tions you are more likely to qualify for.
Now that you know the advantages stu-
dent credit cards can have on your financial future, come up with a plan and weigh all of your options. Remember, a credit card can be the key to getting you an excellent credit score, but it can also hurt your score if used the wrong way. By taking an educated ap-proach to getting your finances started off right, you will be able to leave school with a little something extra to be proud of than 
just your degree.
Matthew Coan is the owner of Gaines-
ville-based financial-product-comparison 
website casavvy.com. Contact him at info@casavvy.com with any questions.
Want to graduate with an excellent 
credit score? Get a student credit cardGuest column
Matthew Coan
Speaking OutThe ancient Romans said it 
well: in vino veritas. “In wine, there is truth.” If you’re drunk, you’re not going to be telling any 
lies; as they say, drunken words are sober thoughts. Today, I’ll be telling the truth about wine, spe-cifically about wine blends.
Just like the origin of all evil 
things, wine blends showed up kind of insidiously in the past few years and steadily gained popularity. Trader Joe’s even gives samples of them. 
You might be wondering why I am writ-
ing about the evils of wine blends instead of the evils of boxed wine. The answer ought to be clear: Boxed wine registers into our collective unconscious as an inherent evil akin to a Mussolini or a Stalin. It's evil un-less you’re at a music festival or buying boxed wine ironically. Blended wine is like  Reagan: He’s flagrantly evil, but people still manage to love him.
Anyhow, I’m going to enumerate some 
reasons as to why wine blends are such a threat to gastronomy, if not all of Western civilization.
First, every type of wine represents en-
tire traditions of innovation and exploita-tion (in the non-Marxist definition) of a particular variety of grapes. For as much as these traditions are obviously interrelated, mixing them together is a prime example of bastardization.
Second, related to the previous reason, 
every grape variety is destined to be one kind of wine. A blend is not a kind of wine. It’s a farce.
Third, if someone sees you in the check-
out line buying a blended wine, it should be embarrassing for you. That blended wine might as well be a Slim Jim and some cheese coming out of a can, because what else do you drink blended wine with? Pierogis? “Hey, why don’t you come over tonight? We’re having Chef Boyardee and Texas Toast with a side of jalapeno Cheetos and Fudge Rounds for dessert. Plus, every course is paired with wine blends.”
I'll use an example for the fourth reason: 
You’re having a nice dinner party and get out a wine blend to serve your guests. Uh-oh, the dinner party is as good as dead. Your social status is not only in jeopardy, but in tatters.
Five, what does a wine blend 
even taste like? Are you going to talk to your colleagues at work and say, “Oh my gosh, we were at dinner, and we had this excel-lent bottle of — what was it — oh yeah, it was a blend.”
Number six is an aesthetic 
reason: How do you even describe a wine blend? Does the label pick up on the hints of arsenic, burnt rubber and gasoline with that subtle metallic finish? Wine blends are not real, which leads us to reason seven: Everybody was a little kid once and went to Taco Bell to “enjoy” the infinity of possibili-ties that was the soda machine. This gave rise to the aptly named “suicide,” which was a mix of Coke, Mountain Dew, lemon-ade, maybe fruit punch, etc., that was al-ways a kind of yellowish-brown radioactive color. When you were 7, it tasted good, and it was the best thing ever, but now you’re an adult. Do you really think a “suicide” should be bottled (or boxed) and preserved for eternity?
Eight: Imagine you’re in an OK sort of 
restaurant and you ask for the house wine, knowing that it’s crappy and a baby-step from undrinkable, but it’s cheap. Blended wine is eight steps below that.
Nine, let’s think in terms of ergonomics: 
When you buy a bottle of mixed wine, you pass up on two bottles of real wine. Does that make you feel efficient?
The tenth and final reason: As college 
students, we cannot forget the Baccha-nalian underpinnings of our experience, which is to say, per the old adage: wine, women and song. Chances are, the women and the song (or men and country ballad) are going to be a letdown, so you ought to at least make sure the wine is good.
In case you didn’t get the message, wine 
blends are bad. The future of the world hinges upon what you put in your mouth tonight. Or after class. Or before class. San-té.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Wine blends are an abominationColumn
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgSHE MADE IT TO THE TOP 
10 OF MISS AMERICA.
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer  
When Mary Katherine Fechtel 
stood in front of the crowd at the 
Miss America pageant, there was only one way to introduce herself.
“I’m from the state where if 
you’re not a Gator, you’re Gator bait!” the 20-year-old cheered.
Fechtel has represented the 
Gators on the field as a UF Dazzler dancer, and Sunday she represented the Gators on the Miss America’s At-lantic City stage.
Fechtel made it to the Top 10 of 
the competition.
Now that Fechtel is back in the 
Sunshine State, the family, youth and community sciences major has 
put her last year on hold to tour the 
state, promote her Internet safety initiative and be a spokeswoman for the Everglades Foundation — all a part of her Miss Florida duties.
“As Miss Florida, the crown is a 
microphone,” she said. “It’s amaz-ing how kids listen to the outlet I’ve chosen and the platform I feel most 
passionate about.”
She said she will return to UF for 
the Ole Miss football game Oct. 3 to 
crown Taylor Pohl, the first runner-up after Fechtel in February’s Miss 
UF competition, as the new Miss UF.
During the Miss America compe-tition, Fechtel donned a shimmering aqua skirt and danced to the song 
“Bridge Over Troubled Water” on live TV.  And when she looked out 
into the audience, she said she saw 
about 60 signs held up for Florida.“People believed so wholeheart-
edly that I could be Miss America,” Fechtel said. 
The main focus of the pageant 
was personal growth, she said.
However, she said one of her fa-
vorite parts was connecting with the other women in the competition.
“Learning from them and grow-
ing from them is what it was really 
about,” Fechtel said. 
On Saturday night, she wore 
Gator heels and a bright blue jump-
suit adorned with orange rhine-stones. 
The crowd cheered and 
Chomped. 
One of Fechtel’s biggest support-
ers is her Kappa Delta sorority sister 
and good friend Rachael Keller.
Keller, 21, said the sorority sent 
Fechtel care packages with hand-
written notes and a sorority sweat-shirt.
“We shared her with the rest 
of the world for a little while,” the 21-year-old business management senior said. 
Fechtel said with her friends and 
family’s support, she wasn’t con-cerned with winning.
“There was such a peace and 
such a confidence in the entire expe-rience as a whole,” she said.  “And just knowing that God’s will would be done, I didn’t have to strive or 
worry about what the outcome was.”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator  
Mary Katherine Fechtel, 20, participates in the Show Me Your Shoes parade in Atlantic City on Saturday, a Miss America contestant tradition. Candidates wore shoes to represent their states. “It was such a testa-ment that the Gator Nation really is everywhere, ” Fechtel said.
UF student to take off a year to uphold Miss Florida duties 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Alex Marques took a red piece of chalk 
and bent down to write “tabling registration 
easier” on a chalkboard to help generate 
ideas for the upcoming UF Student Govern-
ment Fall Elections.
The UF mechanical engineering junior 
wanted to bring up the issues he’s faced 
while trying to reserve a table for his club 
Humans vs. Zombies. The 20-year-old said it takes about a month to get a table.
Access Party members and Impact Party 
members on Turlington Plaza and the Reitz North Lawn asked students for their ideas during platform generation. Fall SG elections will elect 50 senators, based on students’ res-idency. Former majority party, Swamp Party, 
did not register to run candidates. 
Students should be able to use a table 
if it hasn’t been reserved by another club, 
Marques said.
“It’s a lengthy process to get permission 
for tabling,” he said.
Impact did platform generation for two 
days because of the amount of ideas it re-ceived from the Student Body, said Impact 
Party president Chris Boyett. 
“We think we have a pretty good idea of what students want,” he said.
There is no date set for the release of Im-
pact’s platform, he said.
Kody Thompson, 18, an Impact candidate 
for District D,  said he wanted to talk to stu-
dents in his district. Students told him they wanted new bus routes and more buses run-ning to decrease wait times.
“I know for a fact that I wake up earlier 
for the bus,” the freshman health sciences major said. “We’re going to do our best to make it most convenient.”
Access Party also did platform generation. 
“Right now, it’s the beginning of the cam-
paign, and we just want to kick off,” said Ac-
cess Party president Kalyani Hawaldar.
Access has been using its website, along 
with notepads, to generate ideas, she said. New students have been telling Access 
they want to see online voting as part of its platform. 
Jacquelyn Hosa, 20, an Access candidate 
for District C, said she wanted to get stu-dents’ input on what they want.
“People that live off-campus want to ex-
pand SNAP to off campus,” the UF sociology sophomore said.
Taylor McConville, 19, wrote on Access’s 
notepad “more wifi in the stadium.”
The lack of signal made it difficult to find 
her friends at the East Carolina football game 
last weekend, she said. This could potential-
ly be a safety issue.
“Even the data was really bad,” the archi-
tecture junior said. “If you get lost then you can’t text anyone.”SG looks to students for platform generation ideas
LEFT:
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Wesley Hamlin, a UF material sci-
ences senior, talks to Impact Party candidates Carrie Wilkey, 18, a UF telecommunication fresh-man, and Jackie Phillips, 19, a UF family, youth and community sci-ences sophomore, outside the Re-itz Union on Tuesday afternoon. Hamlin, 22, said he votes every semester, usually against Swamp Party.
FAR LEFT:
Courtesy to the Alligator
Maggie Patterson writes down her suggestions for how to im-prove campus life on a large note-pad held by Access Party candi-date Antony Darce.
SG elections are Sept. 29 and 30RAGING REPTILES 
Like the many people who choose to reside in 
Florida, invasive reptiles and amphibians also enjoy living in the warm climate. A UF study — published online in the journal Herpetological Conservation Biology — showed that 
higher temperatures make areas more vulnerable to 
non native reptiles. Extreme cold prevented inva-sions, UF/IFAS scientists found.After loss of habitats, invasive species are second in contributing to the worldwide decrease in bio-diversity, wrote Frank Mazzotti, a wildlife ecology and conservation professor at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Fort Lauderdale Research and Education Center, in a 2015 UF/IFAS Extension 
paper.
Florida has more introduced species of reptiles and amphibians in the wild than anywhere else in the world. This, plus its subtropical and tropical cli-mates, caused Mazzotti to determine South Florida is a focal area for exotic species.“We need to focus immediate management efforts on South Florida, or invasive wildlife could jeopar-dize Everglades restoration,” Mazzotti said.
PRIVATE PRACTICE  
A UF study found stroke victims fare bet-ter if they have private insurance rather than Medicaid or no insurance at all. Researchers analyzed nationwide data from more than 1.5 million hospital ad-
missions involving stroke patients be-
tween 2002 and 2011.The study, published in the Journal of Neurosurgery, found a statistically higher rate of patient-safety issues for those with-out private insurance, as well as a high-er death rate, longer stays and worse outcomes. This is most likely because Medicaid and 
uninsured patients don’t have access to 
primary preventive care the way insured patients do, said Maryam Rahman, an assistant professor in the UF College of Medicine’s department of neurosurgery and the study’s principal investigator.“In general, they’re going to be a sicker population with higher obesity rates and a greater rate of uncontrolled diabetes,” 
Rahman said. “That’s going to influence 
how they do with any diagnosis.”LOW PRESSURE
Blood pressure data is being reevaluated. 
New findings, which include UF Health research, found that blood pressure readings lower than 120 — the previous normal range — could cut the risk of heart attack, heart failure and stroke by a third, as well as the risk of death by a quarter in people 50 and older.High blood pressure, or hypertension, is a leading 
risk factor for heart disease, stroke, kidney failure 
and other health problems. An estimated 1 in 3 peo-ple in the U.S. has high blood pressure, according to UF Health News.“This study provides potentially lifesaving informa-tion that will be useful to health care providers as they consider the best treatment options for some of their patients, particularly those over the age of 50,” said Gary Gibbons, director of the National Heart, 
Lung and Blood Institute.
The National Institutes of Health found the prelimi-nary results significant, stopping the study’s blood pressure intervention earlier than anticipated to quickly distribute them. 
IN THE GENES  
UF Health researchers are using gene mutations in 
the search for cancer treatment options. In a newly launched clinical trial, researchers will study a computer program to see if it can predict a person’s reaction to different thera-
pies based on his or her genes. 
UF Health physician and researcher Christopher Cogle will map thousands of genes within each patient’s cancer. “The cancer genes are genes we believe will 
give us prognostic and treatment informa-tion, and the pharma-genes will tell us how well the patients will respond to the drugs we prescribe,” said Cogle, a member of the 
UF Health Cancer Center and an associate 
professor in the UF College of Medicine.If the computer method is found to be valid, the prediction technology could help doctors and patients choose drugs with the greatest likelihood of shrinking the cancer, as well as avoid harmful drugs with a low chance of success, according to UF Health News. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
tion, and the pharma-genes will tell us how 
well the patients will respond to the drugs 
we prescribe,” said Cogle, a member of the 
UF Health Cancer Center and an associate 
professor in the UF College of Medicine.
If the computer method is found to be 
valid, the prediction technology could help 
doctors and patients choose drugs with the 
greatest likelihood of shrinking the cancer, 
as well as avoid harmful drugs with a low 
chance of success, according to UF Health 
News. 
In a newly launched clinical trial, researchers 
will study a computer program to see if it can 
predict a person’s reaction to different thera-
pies based on his or her genes. 
UF Health physician and researcher Christopher 
Cogle will map thousands of genes within each 
patient’s cancer. 
By Hunter Williamson 
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
City commissioners and ofﬁ  cials 
discussed a recently released audit Tuesday that revealed Gainesville Regional Utilities customers have overpaid nearly $900,000 since 2013 
and will continue to be overcharged 
until a solution is found.
At an Audit and Finance Com-
mittee meeting Tuesday afternoon, city and GRU ofﬁ  cials reviewed the audit, conducted Jan. 1, 2014 through May 31, 2015, by the City of Gainesville Ofﬁ  ce of the City Audi-tor, and discussed ways to reclaim 
the lost money.
“I can identify with any citizen 
who’s tried to look at some of these 
bills and determine what we’re be-ing charged for,” said Carlos Holt, a Gainesville city auditor. “It’s very difﬁ  cult to understand.”
Since December 2013, Gainesville 
Renewable Energy Center has over-charged GRU for energy, according to the audit’s ﬁ  nding. This has re-sulted in $872,498 in overpayments, the audit found — a fee passed on to GRU customers.
The overcharge resulted from an 
error in price adjustment stated in a 
30-year-biomass contract with GREC 
the city approved in 2009.
“The reason for that being in 
there was to protect for inﬂ  ation from the date the contract was signed until the date (of) the actual construction,” Holt said.
Until the miscalculation issue is 
resolved, GRU customers will con-
tinue to be overcharged. Mayor Ed 
Braddy said it’s difﬁ  cult to deter-mine how much ratepayers were overcharged.
“You have to spread it over 
93,000 customer’s monthly bills,” he said.
The audit found several contract 
clauses were not implemented as 
described in the contract, the most 
signiﬁ  cant being the overcharge.The audit suggested 15 recom-
mendations for management to GRU, 14 of which GRU General Manager Ed Bielarski Jr. approved.
Two of the approved recommen-
dations suggested considering cours-es of action to reclaim the money lost in the overpayments and go for-ward with a suggestion that would ﬁ  x the miscalculation and save GRU 
$56,826 a month.
GREC did not agree to those two 
recommendations, leading Bielarski 
to say legal actions might have to be taken. Shayla McNeill, an attorney for GRU, said a claim will have to be ﬁ  led with GREC. The next steps may include legal action or paying in pro-test to resolve the contract issue, Bie-
larski said. The committee decided 
to continue the discussion about the audit’s ﬁ  ndings during Thursday’s City Commission meeting.GRU customers overchargedGAINESVILLE 
THROWBACKS
SEPT. 13, 1988
UF Student Government ofﬁ  cials released a statement in support 
of installing coin-operated condom machines on campus despite UF administration rejecting the idea almost a year earlier. Back in Novem-ber, Student Affairs Vice President Art Sandeen and Health Affairs As-sociate Vice President Ken Finger voted against the proposal from UF’s 
AIDS task force — citing the machines as a promotion of sex. Three 
SG members — Student Body President Scooter Willis, Vice President Valerie Hartung and Health Cabinet Director Angeli Maun — wrote a statement supporting the installation of the machines “in hopes that the greater accessibility of condoms will reduce the rate of (AIDS) on our campus.”
SEPT. 14, 1995 
Rabid raccoons attacked two people. The two people were bitten 
by a rabid raccoon and a third person was exposed to a rabies-infected raccoon. Two of the raccoons were caught. One was caught near 13th Street while another was found on UF’s campus. One of the racoons was taken to UF’s veterinary school where it was decapitated for test-
ing and found to have rabies. During the test, a student was exposed 
to the rabid animal’s bodily ﬂ  uids. A third animal was believed to be wandering campus but was never caught.  
SEPT. 12, 2000
Police ofﬁ  cers Charles McCray and Eric Rice became the ﬁ  rst black 
captains of the University Police. They were promoted to their ranks after undergoing interviews. McCray had a problem when he took the test. He ate pancakes, and they didn’t sit well with his stomach, so he had to get out of line to use the bathroom and was disqualiﬁ  ed from 
the physical test. “It just kind of irritated me, and I just wanted to get 
into law enforcement even more,” he said. McCray went to the Ala-chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce to see if he would be selected for training. He went through the police academy and began his career with UPD.
SEPT. 16, 2009
Four UF employees resigned after a yearly audit found they spent 
about $30,000 worth of university money for personal use. Brian Man-ning, a former IT specialist in UF’s ophthalmology department, was re-sponsible for more than half of the spending, racking up about $16,400 worth of fraudulent purchases, according to the audit. Items bought 
with the money included video game systems, furniture and DVDs — 
including a copy of “Perfect Hips Belly Dance” — among other things.
— Ariana Figueroa and Jordan McPherson
Alligator File Photo
Sandra  Day  O’Conner talks to a crowd of students and Gainesville 
residents about civic service and voting on Sept. 12,  2011.
RESEARCH ROUNDUPIt’s because of an error
“There’s so many metrics that 
change in these things. It’s 
very diicult to understand.”
Carlos Holt
Gainesville city auditorWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
Designated drivers are the greatestI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified7 Computers 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYUF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
SEP 4 - NEW MEXICO STATE
SEP 11 - EAST CAROLINA
SEP 25 - TENNESSEE
OCT 2 - OLE MISS
OCT 30 - GEORGIA (JAX)
NOV 6 - VANDERBILT (HOMECOMING)
NOV 20 - FLA ATLANTIC
NOV 24 - FSU
DEC 4 - SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
CONTACT YOUR
SALES REP TODAY
352-376-4482RUN 5 OF 9 DATES AND RECEIVE 15% OFF  
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ACROSS
1 Respectful title
4 Gnocchi sauce9 First occurrence
14 Keats’ “__ to a
Nightingale”
15 Stay away from16 With 61-Across,
Sri Lankanproduct
17 Pool user’s unit
18 Sweet sherry, e.g.
20 “__ Road to
Glory”: Arthur
Ashe history
22 Lip
23 Unbeatable hand27 Hat worn with a
kilt
30 “Romeo and
Juliet” city
31 Laundry slide33 __ Spumante36 Here, to Henri37 Album array38 It happens four
times a year ...and also in thispuzzle’s circles
41 Comes to the
point?
42 Have title to43 Long basket, in
hoops lingo
44 Clear the board45 Daze
47 Only article in a
U.S. state capital
name
48 Square-bodied
family autos
52 Burlesque wraps54 Dot on a map55 Pre-holiday mall
indulgence
61 See 16-Across62 Parenthetical
remark
63 Piece of cake64 Tach reading65 Package sealers
66 Decorative
pitchers
67 Critter in
Egyptian art
DOWN
1 Like some
eclipses
2 One of three
Hells Canyon
states3 Square things
4 Kayak mover
5 Night before6 Distress 
signal
7 “Whether __
nobler ... ”:Hamlet
8 Ukrainian port9 Stops wavering
10 Dinnertime TV
fare
11 Snow runner12 Ages and ages13 Place to start a
hole
19 Cheer from the
crowd
21 Steep-sided
valleys
24 Wendy’s side25 Maniacal26 Military outfit27 Private 
instructor
28 Square things29 Like many a
dorm room
31 Half a dance32 Party organizer
33 Did one’s part?
34 Admonishing
response to“Mine!”35 Spanish finger
food
37 Tubular pasta
39 MBA hopeful’s
test
40 Took a dip45 Struggle46 Old-time
broadcasters
48 Crone49 Extreme50 Some execs51 Passport image52 __ one’s time:
wait
53 Soda machine
inserts
55 Nocturnal flier56 NATO founding
member
57 Chihuahua
complaint
58 Handle without
care?
59 Reuben bread60 Slogan ending?
By C.W. Stewart
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/16/1509/16/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 16, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. U.S. STATES: What is the highest 
capital city in the United States?
2. SLOGANS: What was Woodsy 
Owl’s message from the federal gov-
ernment?
3. RELIGION: When is Maundy 
Thursday in the Christian religion?
4. MUSIC: Which pop singer was 
called “The Man from Memphis”?
5. DISCOVERIES: Who is credited 
with discovering streptomycin?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent had a pet badger?
7. SCIENCE: What has happened to 
a cell that has undergone necrosis?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the average gestational period for a rabbit?
9. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
Lombardy region?
10. LITERATURE: What 19th-cen-
tury poet wrote that “the United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem”?
Answers
1. Santa Fe, New Mexico (7,000 feet 
above sea level)
2. “Give a hoot, don’t pollute!”3. Thursday before Easter, marking 
the Last Supper
4. Elvis
5. Selman Waksman
6. Theodore Roosevelt (“Josiah”)7. It has died.8. 28-31 days 9. Northern Italy10. Walt Whitman
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 14, 2015 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
Documentary Filmmaking ProjectTeam or individual to film and produce a documentary on the life and comeback of a veteran mma fighter, think "smashing ma-chine" meets "cinderella man", for more info email showtimesportsmngmt@gmail.com   9-18-15-6-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD MONDAY, SEPT. 21, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
9-18-15-5-14
Wanted: Computer Programmer
Familiar with PHP and data collectionswww.goldendomefund.orgcall for more info. 229-247-5285    9-18-15-5-14Middle School Tutor/Organizational helper Wanted to assist 2 or 3 times a week, pri-
marily with organizational skills and some 
general tutoring. The tutoring is for 2 middle 
school girls attending Florida Virtual School 
full-time. Hours are flexible, one or 2 hours a 
sitting. $15-$20 an hour. Contact kelley.phil-
lips@gmail.com    9-18-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Remove Unwanted Hair TodayHalf-off laser hair removal50% off your first treatment352-333-FACE (352-333-3223)Visit www.gainesvilleflderm.com    9-18-15-5-15
Value Cleaning Starting @ $59
Eco-Friendly Product OptionWell established company in Gainesville. Call or text 352-214-9597    9-22-15-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgSincerity Community Care
do you need companion care or home maker 
services for you or a loved one contact us 
at 3523010249 or sinceritycare@gmail.com    
9-17-15-5-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE FLIRTY CHAIR DANCE CLASS
This Thursday, September 17th, 6pm. The 
Lingerie Company 2614 SW 34th St. Call 
today to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    
9-17-15-5-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's men's and women's 
swimming and diving teams, led by coach Gregg Troy, open the season on Friday in Gainesville at the All Florida Invitational. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Heading into Southeastern 
Conference play, Florida’s sec-
ondary is looking to hit the reset 
button. 
Despite entering the season re-
garded as arguably the best cover-
age unit in the nation, the Gators 
have struggled to live up to the 
billing, ranking 88th nationally in passing yards allowed through their first two games.
Part of that was due to three 
notable absences — safety Mar-cus Maye was suspended for the opener against New Mexico State, cornerback Vernon Hargreaves 
missed the East Carolina game 
with an injury to his leg and safe-ty Keanu Neal missed both games with a strained hamstring.
But while those are three sig-
nificant starters, a team with as much depth at the defensive back position as Florida shouldn’t be 
struggling against mediocre com-
petition.
Florida’s players agreed.On Sunday, following the 
team's narrow victory over East Carolina, Neal called a players-only meeting with the secondary to hit the refresh button and get back on track.
“You heard all the Twitter talk and social media talk about us be-ing DBU (Defensive Back Univer-
sity) and the best in the country,” Neal said. 
“Well, in the first two games 
we didn’t show that. 
“That meeting was to come 
back to a platform where we need 
to be, start from the ground up and work our way up, instead of having this pedestal. Just going 
back and figuring what we need 
to do better.”
Make no mistake: the group 
wants to be on that pedestal. 
They just want to earn it.
All season long, nearly every 
member of Florida’s secondary 
has stated repeatedly they believe they’re better than any other 
group in the nation. 
They’ve embraced the pres-
sure that has come with the sur-
rounding hype.
“We want that,” Neal said. 
“We wanna be the best in the 
country and best defense in the 
nation. That’s what we preach and what we wanna do, and we 
gotta do it.”
With that desire in mind, it 
made it that much worse for Neal 
to watch helplessly on the side-line while East Carolina passed 
the ball for 346 yards.
“It was killing me inside,” 
Neal said. 
“Injuries happen, you have to 
accept it, but it was definitely kill-
ing me.” 
UF coach Jim McElwain said 
the Gators didn't expect a drop off in performance with Hargreaves 
and Neal missing, but their ab-
sence on the field was noticeable. 
McElwain even acknowledged 
UF lacrosse reloading with top recruits
The Florida lacrosse team has added the top two recruits in the nation 
according to Inside Lacrosse. Sydney Pirreca, a midfielder from Mount Siniai in New York, is the No. 1 recruit in the country. Lindsey Ronbeck, an attacker from Manhasset in New York, is the No. 2 recruit in the country. Alligator File Photo
Florida safety Keanu Neal intercepts a pass during the Gators' 36-30 triple-overtime win against 
Kentucky on Sept. 14, 2014, at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Florida secondary relishing opportunity to be nation's best
Hargreaves remains questionable
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Heading into the season, Florida’s offen-
sive line was viewed as one of the team’s 
more vulnerable position groups. 
The Gators lost four starters from last 
year’s team to the NFL Draft and redshirt 
sophomore Rod Johnson to a career-ending 
spinal injury.
But as Florida prepares for this weekend’s 
Southeastern Conference opener against Ken-tucky, the linemen feel like they’re coming into their own.
“It’s been tremendous improvement from 
Spring to Fall camp to now,” said redshirt se-nior Trip Thurman, the lone returning offen-
sive lineman with starting experience. 
“There’s always still stuff we need to work 
on though.”
In UF’s first two wins — a 61-13 victory 
against New Mexico State and a 31-24 win 
over East Carolina — the Gators’ offensive line gave up just three sacks. 
In 2014, UF surrendered two in its first two 
contests.
Coach Jim McElwain said communication 
among the lineman improved over the first two weeks, but mentioned that progress will need to continue Saturday when the team heads to Kentucky if the Gators are to have any hope of competing.
In Saturday’s game against East Carolina, 
the Pirates pressured on slant plays, an ap-proach the Gators failed to recognize early on.
McElwain said the Wildcats — 2-0 this 
season, but 0-28 against the Gators since 1986 — have a knack for bringing different sets of 
pressure, something that forces an offensive UF offensive line improving
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Coach Becky Burleigh consistently em-
phasizes that the Florida women’s soccer 
team (5-2-0) isn’t solely focused on the out-
comes of individual games. 
But after dropping their Southeastern 
Conference opener, the players collectively 
understand the importance of this upcoming 
weekend within the context of the season. 
“Going into the SEC, we lost our first 
game unfortunately, and we don’t have a lot 
of room to lose many more,” junior forward Savannah Jordan said. 
“We know our goal at the end of the 
season, we want to win the title and win the SEC. Then from there progress onto the tournament, so this weekend’s big for us. I think if we can get this win, it will put us in the right direction.” 
Burleigh said the team’s focus has been 
on trying to gel as a unit along with improv-ing its defensive structure. 
“I think it’s just about 
getting a set defense a little bit quicker,” Bur-leigh said. “We call it ‘fix it’ when we get behind the ball, so maybe hav-
ing that set defense and 
maybe a little bit lower 
restraining line.” 
Redshirt junior goalkeeper Valerie Tys-
inger said the team is working in practice to correct the mistakes that led to the Gators relinquishing two goals in their loss to Tex-Gators focused on defense, 
building team chemistrySEE SECONDARY,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15“It’s been tremendous improvement 
from spring to fall camp to now.”
Trip Thurman
UF offensive lineman
Burleigh
SOPHOMORE CAELEB 
DRESSEL WON AN NCAA 
TITLE LAST SEASON. 
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@LStaﬀ  27
With their seasons starting on 
Friday at the All Florida Invitation-
al in Gainesville, expectations are 
high for Florida’s men’s and wom-
en’s swimming and diving teams, led by head swimming coach Gregg Troy and diving coach Dale 
Schultz. 
“We always have quite a few 
athletes that have international as-
pirations, it has kind of been a tra-dition of this program.” Troy said. 
“It makes this year exciting, it 
makes it very unique, but it also makes it a little bit of a coaching challenge because you have mul-tiple targets.”
The men’s team returns sopho-more Caeleb Dressel, who won the 50m freestyle NCAA title dur-ing his freshman year and had a huge showing this summer at the U.S. Nationals, becoming the sec-ond fastest American in the 50 and 100-meter freestyle races. 
“He’s become much more of a 
team leader (than last year),” Troy said. “He handles practice dramat-ically better already than what he did at any point last year. There is 
a tremendous upside to what he 
can do.”
The men’s team is also adding 
a freshman recruiting class that 
includes U.S. Swimming junior  
national team member Ross Pala-zzo and National Club Swimming Association competitors Brennan Balogh and Alex Lebed. 
They will be joined by Jan Swit-
kowski, a transfer from Virginia Tech who placed third in the 200m butterﬂ  y at the world champion-
ships this summer while compet-ing for the Polish national team.
Since Troy took over the team 
during the 1999-2000 season, the 
Gators have always ﬁ  nished with a 
top-10 NCAA ranking. 
On the women’s team, the ros-
ter is smaller and lacks the depth 
of the men’s squad. 
UF’s incoming freshmen will  
have an opportunity to contribute early in the season. 
The freshman class includes 
Hannah Burns, an athlete who has 
the ability to swim many different 
events. Sydney Sell from Frank-fort, Kentucky, gives the team speed with her backstroke, and Mollie Pulte from Troy, Michigan, 
is a solid freestyle swimmer.
“We’ve got a lot of newcomers 
that could have an instant impact 
this year on both the men’s and 
women’s team,” Troy said.14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel jumps into the pool at the 2014 Pinch A 
Penny Invitational. 
GATORS IN THE NFL
By Ian Cohen 
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
With Week 1 of the NFL season ofﬁ  cially 
over, here’s a recap of how former Florida 
players fared in their season debuts.
Gators shine in Washington : After 
missing 12 games in his ﬁ  rst two seasons, Jordan Reed is looking to justify the Red-
skins’ selection of him in the third round 
of the 2013 NFL Draft. The former UF tight end provided some answers on Sunday, recording seven receptions for 63 yards, 
including a 4-yard touchdown catch over 
Miami safety Reshad Jones in the second quarter.
In his NFL debut, running back Matt 
Jones rushed for 28 yards on six attempts 
for Washington in relief of starter Alfred 
Morris. With a strong preseason and an er-ror-free opener, Jones has likely solidiﬁ  ed his role as Morris’s backup.
Receivers:  Percy Harvin caught ﬁ  ve 
passes for 79 yards for Buffalo, including a 51-yard diving touchdown grab from Ty-rod Taylor in the Bills’ 27-14 win over the Colts.
Riley Cooper had a slightly more modest 
performance on Monday night for Philadel-
phia, recording three catches for 25 yards 
in the Eagles’ 26-24 loss at Atlanta.
Defense:  Miami linebacker Jelani Jen-
kins led all former UF players with 11 tack-les, followed by Cleveland cornerback Joe 
Haden’s six.
In limited action against Oakland, Cin-
cinnati’s Carlos Dunlap recorded two 
tackles and one sack in the Bengals’ 33-
13 victory over the Raiders. Reggie Nelson 
intercepted Raiders’ quarterback Matt Mc-Gloin in the third quarter.
Baltimore Ravens’ safety Will Hill got 
the starting nod and totaled ﬁ  ve tackles, 
including two for a combined loss of ﬁ  ve 
yards in the team’s 19-13 loss to the Den-ver Broncos. 
Patriots’ defensive tackle Dominique 
Easley suffered a hip pointer in New Eng-land’s Thursday night win over Pittsburgh.
According to NFL Network reporter Ian 
Rapoport, Easley is only expected to miss Former Gators contribute to 
teams as NFL season opens
Florida’s reloaded swimming and diving teams open season
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
After posting the best three-round score 
of her college career, sophomore Taylor 
Tomlinson tied for ﬁ  rst place to take home 
her ﬁ  rst collegiate individual title at the 
Cougar Classic in Charleston, South Caro-lina on Tuesday. 
Tomlinson’s 6-under 210 was matched only by Clemson’s Alice Hewson. 
Arkansas’s Regina Plasencia and Geor-
gia’s Jillian Hollis ﬁ  nished in a tie for third place, each with a 4-under 212. 
“It’s really exciting,” Tomlinson said in 
a release. 
“I know a lot of really good players — 
some don’t even get a college win under their belt, so to get it, especially the ﬁ  rst tournament of the year, is really nice.” 
Despite shooting a 2-over 74 in her ﬁ  nal round, the Gainesville native held on for the win with some help from her back-to-back 4-under 68’s she shot in the ﬁ  rst two 
rounds on Sunday and Monday. 
Tomlinson totalled 14 birdies through-
out the tournament, and she credits her 
success to her short game. “I played really well, just steady and 
solid all week,” Tomlinson said. 
“My putting really helped me the ﬁ  rst 
two days, I made a lot of birdie putts which was nice. They didn’t fall as much today but I was still able to get it done.”
Tomlinson wasn’t the only one set-
ting personal bests, as senior Ursa Orehek logged the lowest three-round score of her college career with a 4-over 220 and had her best ﬁ  nish, tied for 17th.
Junior Maria Torres tied for 15th indi-
vidually at 3-over par, thanks to a clutch UF women’s golf team ﬁ  nishes fourth in Cougar Classic
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 16SEE GATORS IN THE NFL,  PAGE 16
Tomlinson tied for irst place
Buffalo Bills receiver 
Percy Harvin celebrates his touchdown catch during the ﬁ  rst half of an NFL football game against the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday in Orchard Park, New York. 
AP Photo
“I played really well, just steady and 
solid all week.”
T aylor T omlinson
UF sophomore golferline to be resilient in order to be suc-
cessful.
“We had some guys beat us 
across their face,” McElwain said, “and we’re gonna see that this week 
again and obviously every time you put something like that on film 
you’re going to see more of it next time. So we’ve gotta get that shored up.”
Mason Halter, UF’s starting right 
tackle, said the key to success is making sure everyone is on the same page and knows their assignment.
“It’s kind of reading the defense, seeing what’s on and what’s off,” the Fordham transfer said. 
While the offensive line has 
more-or-less held its own so far, the 
Gators are ready for their first test.
“Obviously we’re getting into the 
SEC now,” Halter said, “so it’s go-
ing to be a little bit of a bigger chal-
lenge.”as A&M last week.
“I think it’s just trying to prevent the next 
mistake,” Tysinger said. “It’s like a break-
down on all of our parts so it’s kind of like stopping the cycle.” 
Tysinger came out of the 18-yard box a 
few times during the TAMU game and said that it was a little out of the ordinary for her. 
“I think I’m usually a more play-it-safe 
kind of character, but I was really wanting to 
go all in and risk it,” Tysinger said. “It didn’t 
really work out in that game, but sometimes when you leap, you hit the bottom and life goes on. I think it was a lesson learned that I should know my limits, but in a sense I 
should be a sweeper keeper more with my 
feet.”
Tysinger said the defensive miscues 
weren’t due to a lack of structure, but thinks 
it’s more about the team not always being on 
the same page.   
“Sometimes defensively like we’ll indi-
vidually defend whereas we need to be more group defensive,” Tysinger said. “So in that 
way maybe we’re not as disciplined, but I 
don’t know if it’s like structure.”  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF center Cam Dillard (54) prepares to snap the ball during Florida's 31-24 victory over East Carolina 
on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Goalkeeper Valerie Tysinger chases the ball during Florida's 2-1 win against Troy in an exhibition match on Aug. 11 at the soccer practice field at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
SOCCER,  from pg 13Florida opened Southeastern Conference play with a 2-1 loss
the team could "take a step 
backwards."
"You know you obviously 
lose arguably one of the best players in college football," McElwain said. 
"You know things are going to 
take a step backwards. 
Neal’s return will certainly 
help on that front, both in terms of performance and communica-tion on the field.
“Leadership, toughness are 
two things that jump out,” de-
fensive backs coach Kirk Cal-
lahan said about what Neal’s return brings to the secondary. 
“That’s a guy that does things 
the right way.”
Neal played in 10 games last season, starting eight, including a two-interception performance against Kentucky, Florida’s up-coming opponent.
The Gators might need a sim-
ilar performance from the junior if the Wildcats, led by quarter-back Patrick Towles, duplicate their performance from last sea-
son.
Towles torched Florida in 
2014, throwing for 369 yards 
and three touchdowns, although 
the Gators were able to intercept 
him three times in a 36-30 win in triple overtime.
With Neal and Maye back for 
Florida for this year’s contest, 
and Hargreaves in a good posi-
tion to return in some capacity — he practiced on Tuesday — Saturday’s matchup will be the 
first time Florida’s secondary 
will be at full strength.
If that is the case Saturday, 
Maye says there are no more ex-cuses to give.
“For the most part we have 
everybody back now and we have to live up to that standard if we’re gonna talk about it,” 
Maye said.SECONDARY,  from pg 13Kentucky passed for 
369 yards against the 
Gators last seasonFOOTBALL,  from pg 13UF lost four OL starters from 2014“I think I'm usually a more play-it-
safe kind of character, but I was really 
wanting to go all in and risk it.”
Valerie Tysinger
UF goalkeeper
“You know you obviously 
lose arguably one of the best 
players in college football. 
You know things are going 
to take a step backwards.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coachbirdie on the ﬁ  nal hole of the 
tournament. 
Karolina Vlckova (T29) and 
Samantha Wagner (T35) also birdied the 18th hole and ﬁ  nished the competition at 6-over and 8-over, respectively. 
No. 8 Arkansas ran away with 
the tournament and were the only team to ﬁ  nish under-par at 7-un-der. 
Georgia would ﬁ  nish in second 
place with an even-par ﬁ  nish, led by the strong play of Hollis.
No. 16 Virginia ﬁ  nished third 
at 1-over, while Florida, ﬁ  nished 
its opening tournament of the Fall 
season in fourth place at 5-over.
“I’m happy with the effort of 
our team this week,” Glaser com-mented. 
“We played solid overall, and 
I saw a lot of improvements from the returnees. Today was a tough-
er scoring day. We gave away too 
many shots on the scorable holes and par-ﬁ  ves, which prevented us from making more of a run. 
“But, I feel like we left with a 
good sense of where we can im-prove, and I know this team is committed to working hard and improving.”
Known for being one of the 
most challenging women’s tour-naments in college golf due to the level of competition, the Cougar 
Classic showcased Tomlinson’s 
ability to perform under pressure. 
“I really couldn’t be happier 
for Taylor.” Glaser said. 
“It’s a huge step in her pro-
gression, to make all of the bird-ies she did this week, to get in contention and then ﬁ  nish it off. She really committed to improv-ing her putting over the summer and it paid off for her this week.”
The Gators have less than a 
week off before the team will be back in action on Monday at the Cherokee Country Club for the Mercedes-Benz Intercollegiate in 
Knoxville, Tennessee.16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Junior Karolina Vlckova high fives coach Emily Glaser during the final round of the 2015 SunTrust 
Gator Invitational on March 8. 
GOLF,  from pg14Arkansas was the only team to inish the tournament under-par
a week or two. 
The injury is Easley’s second in less 
than a year after the Patriots placed him 
on injured reserve last December due to a 
knee issue.Inactives: Two former UF defensive 
players’ seasons ended before they began: Ravens’ safety Matt Elam and Jacksonville 
defensive end Dante Fowler Jr. Fowler, the 
Jaguars’ 2015 ﬁ  rst round draft pick, tore his ACL while practicing with the team in May. 
Elam tore his biceps in August, sidelin-ing the safety for the remainder of the sea-son. 
Arizona Cardinals’ offensive lineman 
D.J. Humphries was inactive for the team’s  season-opener against the New Orleans Saints. 
Humphries, the 24th overall pick in the 
2015 NFL Draft, struggled during training camp. 
Chicago Bears’ linebacker Jon Bostic 
was also inactive for the opening week of play, as he was held out with an ankle injury during the Bears’ 31-23 loss to the Green Bay Packers. 
GATORS IN THE NFL,  from pg14The Patriots expect Easley to miss a week with a hip pointer“I feel like we left with a 
good sense of where we can 
improve, and I know this team 
is committed to working hard 
and improving.”
Emily Glaser
UF women’s golf coach