We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 70 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
Florida volleyball sweeps NCAA 
opener
The Gators face Florida State today, pg. 14
The Jam hosts beneﬁ  t concert for aspiring musicians
It will be Saturday, pg. 5
Murals bring color and culture to Gainesville
More artwork will be added in January, pg. 9Want to work with us?
Applications for Spring 2016 staff writer, 
photographer and videographer positions are open until Sunday at 5 p.m. If interested, email editor@alligator.org and ask for an application.
By Alexandra Fernandez 
and Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
UF is looking to secure legislative funding 
for buildings, expand Greek housing and the 
possibility of adding a faculty parking garage.
These projects and goals for the university were discussed at UF’s board of trustees meet-ing Thursday.
O’Connell Center
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center’s $64.5- 
million renovation will ofﬁ  cially begin in March at the end of the men’s basketball sea-son. 
Construction will include the addition of a brick facade to the main entrance of the arena. It will also add cushioned seats, improved Wi-Fi capability, a new scoreboard and new lights, 
said Curtis Reynolds, UF vice president of busi-
ness affairs.
A new concourse will be built courtside, he 
said, which will allow fans to purchase conces-sions without missing any of the action.
He said the O’Connell Center hasn’t been 
renovated since 1980.
“It’s just bringing it up to modern aesthet-ics,” he added.
McCarty faculty parking garage
There may be a new faculty and staff park-
ing garage in the works.
The garage, while still just a concept, would 
be located at the McCarty Hall parking lot, Reynolds said.
Although the plans are still subject to 
change, the garage would cost between $11.1 million and $13.8 million, he said.Board members talk construction, faculty garage
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
MERRY MUG MAKING
Joshua Chen, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, designs a mug during Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment’s “Merry Mug Making” event in the Arts and Crafts Center on Thursday. “I’m making it for some-one for Christmas, ” he said. See the photo story on page 8.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Jared Gaylord said he wasn’t 
scared by the ghost tour he and his 
girlfriend took in Savannah over Spring Break. He thought the tour itself was cheesy.
The scary experience was an 
unexpected interruption, when he heard a car drive away and saw a woman crying on the sidewalk.
Gaylord, 25, said when he asked 
what was wrong, she was too hys-terical to speak.
The woman’s batterer returned 
to the scene with scratches cover-
ing his neck. He told the police to 
ignore her story because she was “drunk and crazy.”
“I had never seen ﬁ  rsthand do-
mestic violence before,” he said. “And it was so public and in front of a tour group.”
It was a situation that frightened 
the UF law third-year in a way a su-
pernatural presence could not.
The incident made him decide to join The Source Program at UF, 
a clinic in the law school that pro-
vides legal representation, social 
work and victim-advocacy services to survivors of intimate partner vio-lence.
But now, the program is ﬁ  ghting 
for funding. Teresa Drake, director of The Source Program, said a grant from the U.S. Department of Justice that compensates for a majority of 
the program’s $200,000 expenses 
expires this month.
      
Gaylord didn’t understand the 
woman’s situation until he enrolled in the program.
After learning about domestic 
violence laws, certain details from 
that night in Savannah stood out — 
the scratches, especially.
He’s now an extern, taking part 
in the Intimate Partner Violence As-sistance Clinic class and acting as the lawyer for the victim of domes-tic battery.
Drake said every client is con- Funding for Source 
Program to expire
STUDENTS MAY STILL TAKE 
EXAMS ON OBSERVANCES.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Gabriela Mayer’s petition for no exams on 
Jewish holidays brought her to Tigert Hall.
The UF civil engineering junior met with 
UF’s associate provost for undergraduate af-fairs, Angela Lindner, on Wednesday to dis-
cuss the petition, which gained a total of 1,600 
signatures since its creation in October. But 
Lindner said she couldn’t create an ofﬁ  cial policy barring professors from scheduling ex-ams on Jewish holidays because she’d have to include all other religions.
“There are so many faiths that our students 
observe that it would be very difﬁ  cult,” she said. “It would actually hamper the progres-sion of the semester.”
Mayer, 20, said she created the petition af-ter she had to take a materials course exam while fasting for Yom Kippur. She said Lindner was open to creating change on campus.
“She wants to spread more awareness of 
when the Jewish holidays are,” Mayer said.Lindner said she will regularly notify faculty 
of holidays so they can avoid scheduling large 
assembly exams during them.
“Our mission is to make sure that we have 
an environment on campus that is fair to all 
students,” she said.
While Hanukkah begins Sunday, Mayer 
said she ultimately wants  no exams to be scheduled on Judaism’s holiest holidays: Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur.
“Hanukkah’s fun,” she said, “but it’s not as 
religious or sacred as the other holidays are.”   UF to make professors more aware of religious holidaysSEE BOARD,  PAGE 4
SEE SOURCE,  PAGE 4
“There are so many faiths that our 
students observe that it would be very 
diicult.”
Angela Lindner
UF’s associate provost 
for undergraduate affairsO’Connell to be renovated in MarchSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Anniversary Celebration
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club will host a 10th Anniversary 
Celebration and Reunion on Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Uptown Village at Townsend 
clubhouse, located at 3780 NW 
24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters members and offi-cers throughout the area and past and present Talking Gators club 
members and officers. RSVP by 
calling 352-283-3919 so we can plan for refreshments. For more information about the club, visit 
talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.
org.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Winter 
Luau-themed event today from 
8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a gingerbread tiki hut contest, 
limbo with prizes and live mu-
sic from Cas Haley. The event will also feature showings of the movie “Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials” at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 
Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
FSDC Winter Formal
Tonight, the Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you to our annual 
Winter Formal dance. The dance 
will be located at the Unified Training Center at 809 W . University Ave. with lessons starting at 8 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 
midnight. There will be games, food, 
drinks and all the lovely people you can dance with, all for the low price of $5. It’s time to take out your fancy 
dance shoes and outfits and join us 
for all of this swingin’ fun. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find us on Facebook. We hope to dance with 
you all soon! For more information, 
visit facebook.com/groups/FLSDC.
Comedy Show
Celebrate the end of the semes-ter with a comedy show. “Just Kidding: A Live + Online Sketch Comedy Show” will be showing at the Hippodrome State Theatre 
on Friday and Dec. 12 at 11 p.m. The show will feature an hour of 
live sketches. Tickets are limited. 
Get yours at justkiddingcomedy.
com.
Film Screening: ‘Black Stains’
This dance film addresses the 
current racial climate and con-
trasts the media’s sensational-ized perception of black men by shedding light on the frequent 
social injustices imposed on 
their lives. Join creator Trent D. Williams Jr., an assistant profes-sor in the UF School of Theatre and Dance in a discussion follow-
ing the film. The screening will 
be held at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art on Saturday at 3 p.m. Parking and admission are 
free. Questions? Contact eking@
harn.ufl.edu.
2015 GLAM Craft Show  This popular indie art show will 
feature unique handmade art from more than 70 local crafters and vendors, food trucks, local beer and more. The free fam-
ily event will take place Sunday 
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the his-toric Gainesville Regional Utilities Operations Warehouse in down-town Gainesville. The Freewheel 
Project will host a bike valet ser-
vice and Master Builder Camp will provide kids’ activities. The organizers are teaming up 
with the Gainesville Community 
Redevelopment Agency and GRU to host the event in the 17-acre master planned Power District adjacent to Depot Park. The 
warehouse has a vintage indus-
trial feel with large windows, exposed metal trusses and corru-gated metal walls. Call 352-393-
8200 for more information.
Sounds of the Season: An 
American Holiday
UF’s College of the Arts and the School of Music are pleased to present their annual holiday con-cert, “Sounds of the Season: An 
American Holiday.” Come and 
enjoy an array of holiday favor-ites. The centerpiece of the con-cert, “Red Telephone,” is a short 
musical play created by Phillip 
Grow that tells the story of the origin of the North American Aerospace Defense Command Tracks Santa program, which has 
been following Santa’s progress 
from the North Pole to children all over the globe since the 1950s. Another highlight of this year’s 
concert will be the narration of Longfellow’s “Christmas Bells” 
by UF President Kent Fuchs.
Tickets are free and will be dis-
tributed at the door beginning at 5 p.m. Sunday. For more in-formation, contact the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts 
Box Office at 352-392-2787, or 
visit performingarts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Attackers in California shooting 
had thousands of bulletsSAN BERNARDINO, Calif. (AP) — San Bernardino gunman Syed 
Rizwan Farook had been in con-
tact with known Islamic extrem-ists on social media, a U.S. intel-ligence official said Thursday, and police said he and his wife 
had enough bullets and bombs 
to slaughter hundreds when they launched their deadly attack on a holiday party.
The details emerged as investiga-
tors tried to determine whether the rampage that left 14 people dead was terrorism, a workplace grudge or some combination.
Wearing black tactical gear and 
wielding assault rifles, Farook, a 28-year-old county restaurant in-spector, and his wife, Tashfeen 
Malik, 27, sprayed as many as 
75 rounds into a room at a social service center for the disabled, where Farook's co-workers had gathered for a holiday banquet 
Wednesday. 
Four hours later and two miles away, the couple died in a furi-ous gunbattle, in which they 
fired 76 rounds, while 23 law of-
ficers unleashed about 380, po-lice said.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 70
HIGH  68° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Congratulations on your 
inauguration, Dr. Fuchs!
Thank you for your leadership, enthusiasm, wisdom 
and good nature. You’ve already made a positive impact. 
And we’re happy to have you here.     today’ s the day.
Download the GatorWay app, or visit  inauguration.ufl.edu for more information.
#UFprez     FRIDAY 
       12/4Investiture Ceremony Live Streaming  3 – 4 p.m.
Room 6120, HSC; Room 1066, McCarty Hall;  Holland Law Center, Law School; Touchdown Terrace; Room A101, CSE; County Extension OfficesInauguration Reception  4 – 5:30 p.m.
J. Wayne Reitz Union4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
Because the demand for additional parking 
among students has leveled out, faculty and 
staff will be prioritized in the planning of this garage, said Craig Hill, UF associate vice presi-dent of business affairs.
“That’s where the demand growth has 
been,” he said.
However, some students, like Devin 
O’Connell, think UF needs to prioritize student 
parking.
“If you compare the amount of faculty to 
the amount of students,” the 19-year-old UF 
nursing sophomore said. “I think that’s your 
answer right there.”
Glenn Israel, a UF professor of agricultural 
education and communication, said he thinks 
the addition of a faculty garage in the middle of campus would shorten his daily walk from his car to classes. He said recent construction projects have taken away parking spaces from faculty members.
“It seems like more and more parking spac-
es are being taken over,” he said.
Legislative funding
Vice President of University Relations Jane 
Adams said UF plans to request about $66 mil-lion from the Legislature during the legislative session in January. This includes $20.5 million to complete the Engineering Nexus Building and $8 million for a Norman Hall renovation.
UF’s request also includes $10 million for 
the preeminence initiative, the university’s ef-fort to recruit esteemed faculty. Adams said the initiative has been successful so far, and UF wants to keep it going.
“We were able to attract so many qualified 
and distinguished professors,” she said.  
Board of trustees member Charles Edwards 
said he hopes UF establishes a better relation-ship with state senators to secure more fund-ing.
“I think for education in Florida, particu-
larly higher education, the time to strike is the next couple of years,” he said.
Greek housing
A motion to expand Greek housing was 
passed by the board of trustees. Three 1-acre plots of land west of Hume Hall will be used.   
TOP RIGHT:  A new center-hung scoreboard and 
updated seating, shown in this rendering, will be added to the Stephen C. O’Connell Center by December 2016.
Courtesy to the Alligator
BOTTOM RIGHT:  Spectators and security staff use 
the Stephen C. O’Connell Center before the volleyball game on Thursday. Renovations to the center, costing about $64.5 million, are ex-pected to be finished by December 2016.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff BOARD,  from pg 1UF plans to request $66 million
sidered indigent, meaning they can’t afford an attorney. Sometimes their batterer controls them with money because they don’t have enough of their own to support themselves 
and their families.
It costs about $200,000 a year 
to fund the program, Drake said. 
Almost all of that goes to the staff — a full-time attorney, a part-time licensed clinical social worker, a 30-hour-per-week program assis-tant and a 25-hour-per-week victim advocate. That’s not including sup-
plies, office expenses and litigation 
costs.
Drake said the U.S. Department 
of Justice grant, which has given the program its funding so far, has been renewed twice in the six years since the program began.
“We’re looking for donors,” she 
said. “We’re hoping to do forward 
research here at the clinic so we can 
take into consideration the effects of trauma and provide services in a way that’s most comfortable for the client.”
Gaylord has represented clients 
in court and works with the survi-vors on other legal matters, such as immigration applications, injunc-
tions and restraining orders.
“We had orientation and you’re 
all eager, and then you talk to some 
of the women on the phone and hear some of the stories and it opens your eyes to the unspoken problem of domestic violence,” he said. “It’s out there, but no one talks about it.”
Gaylord and the other externs 
become experts on the women’s experiences. They stand between the victim and the batterer in the courtroom, when most of the wom-en have not faced their attackers in months. Some of the victims visibly shake out of fear that their injunc-tion will not be renewed and their batterer will target them again.
Sometimes, a piece of paper is 
not enough to stop the batterer from targeting them at all.    
•   •   •
The issue is sometimes more 
complicated than just domestic abuse. A recent victim who was an undocumented immigrant re-lied on the marriage to her batterer 
to stay in the country. This type of 
case happens often, and the bat-terer usually tells the victim he will have her deported if she reports the beatings. She believes he is her only hope for eventually becoming a U.S. citizen. The Source Program helps to streamline the immigration pro-cess and find shelter and food for 
these women and their families in 
the meantime. But sometimes, that can last between 14 and 16 months, Drake said.
Drake said the program is unlike 
other law school clinics because it provides survivors with multidisci-plinary services under one roof and teaches future doctors and lawyers 
to address the issue of intimate part-
ner violence.
“The American Medical Asso-
ciation says every doctor should be screening (for intimate partner vio-lence),” she said. “Is that happening on the ground? No, because they’re not trained how to.”
Survivors are often referred to 
The Source Program by its partners, such as UF Health or Peaceful Paths, an emergency shelter in Gainesville, Drake said. They can also self-refer. Victims undergo a 15-minute intake process, she said. Program mem-bers interview the client to deter-mine how at risk she is of homicide by her batterer. Then Drake will 
assign a Source Program student to 
the case.
The Source Program works with the client to determine whether le-gal action is necessary and if she 
needs an injunction or if she is un-
documented and needs help apply-ing for a visa. In the meantime, she has access to a victim-advocate case manager and a licensed clinical so-cial worker. Some clients continue to see a social worker long after the legal case is over.
“She’s still struggling with vic-
timization,” Drake said. “She still needs services to get her feet un-der her and to find steady employ-ment.”
The program also works to find 
the victim housing, food, resume services and therapy based on her, and sometimes her children’s, needs. Ninety-seven percent of The 
Source Program’s clients are wom-
en, Drake said. But, intimate partner violence also affects men and the LGBTQ+ community.
There is no typical case, Drake 
said. But, there is also no typical treatment.
“Normally, you would have to 
go to three different places for the 
same services we provide,” she 
said. “We’re able to have different perspectives so we can provide a cli-ent with full service where we’re all understanding and we’re all on the same page.”
•   •   •
Occasionally, a client will receive 
a happy ending.
One victim who turned to The 
Source Program for help with the immigration process eventually ad-
justed her four-year visa to become 
a permanent resident of the U.S.
It had been two years since a le-
gal extern from The Source Program had worked with her on her case. During that time, she had a son.
She named him after the student 
who had helped her in her time of need: Alexander Martin.SOURCE,  from pg 1It takes a multidisciplinary approach POWER AND CONTROL
Through physical and sexual violence
USING INTIMIDATION:  
Making her/him afraid by using looks, actions or gestures. Includes smashing things, destroying her/his property, abusing pets or displaying weapons.
USING COERCION AND THREATS:  
Making and/or carrying out threats to do something to hurt her/him. Includes threatening to commit suicide, to leave or making her/him do illegal things.
USING ECONOMIC ABUSE:  
Preventing her/him from getting or keeping a job. Includes making her/him ask for money, giving her/him an allowance or taking her/his money. 
USING MALE PRIVILEGE:  
Includes treating her/him like a servant, making all the big decisions, acting like the “master” or being the one to define men’s and women’s roles.
USING CHILDREN:  
Includes making her/him feel guilty about the children, using the children to relay messages or threatening to take the children or visitation rights away. 
MINIMIZING, DENYING AND BLAMING:  
Making light of the abuse and not taking her/his concerns seriously. Includes saying the abuse didn’t happen or shifting responsibility for abusive behavior.
USING ISOLATION:  
Controlling what she/he does and who she/he talks to. Includes limiting her/his outside involvement and using jealousy to justify actions.
USING EMOTIONAL ABUSE:  
Includes putting her/him down, making her/him think she’s/he’s crazy, playing mind games, humiliating her/him or making her/him feel guilty.
Source: National Center on Domestic and Sexual ViolenceFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
 By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Eun Jin Chun giggled as she hung up-
side down on the Plaza of the Americas 
on Thursday.
The UF linguistics doctoral student 
was one of dozens of students to try ﬂ  y-ing hammock yoga at Student Government Health Affairs Cabinet’s “Stress Free with 
SG.” The event was part of SG’s ﬁ  rst Men-
tal Health Awareness Week and served to relieve students’ stress before ﬁ  nal exams. It cost $1,590.
While some students covered a banner 
in signed paper hands to show that every-one has a hand in how mental health is perceived, others wrapped themselves in green mesh and hung upside down. Chun 
said hammocking was relaxing and sur-
prisingly easy.
“I really want to have this one in my 
house,” the 37-year-old said.
The event served to tell students with 
mental health disorders they can ﬁ  nd help and hope, said Rachna Sannegowda, the Health Affairs Cabinet director. The 19-year-old said these disorders can in-clude depression and eating disorders.
“It should really be treated like some-
thing you should get better from,” the UF 
biomedical engineering sophomore said.
For the three hours that students min-
gled on the Plaza, they were taught how 
to de-stress. Tori Hall, a UF RecSports yoga instructor, said students can chill out through exercise, like ﬂ  ying hammock yoga. She taught attendees the new form of yoga.
RecSports will offer ﬂ  ying hammock 
yoga classes in the Spring, the 20-year-old said.
“It’s kind of like Cirque du Soleil, but 
it’s really easy,” the UF applied physiol-ogy and kinesiology junior said.   By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Devin Gregory ﬁ  nds strength in a tattoo, 
a semicolon on his right forearm. When the 21-year-old debated suicide as a high-school 
student, he felt like his sentence needed a 
period.
“I had a complete thought,” the UF psy-
chology and criminology and law senior said. 
“I was prepared to end my life.”
On Thursday evening, Gregory attend-
ed Student Government’s “Turning on the 
Light” talk because he said he believes start-ing a dialogue about mental health is neces-
sary to understand it. The talk, held in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, was part of SG’s Mental Health Awareness Week and served to combat the stigma around psycho-
logical health and introduce students to cam-
pus resources.
About 20 students listened to Laurel Nes-
bit, project coordinator of the Alachua Coun-ty Crisis Center, who told them suicide is the 
second leading killer among people ages 15 
to 24. 
The theme of the night was shattering the stigma around these topics and beginning a dialogue among students.
“Mental health has always been a dark 
and forbidden topic,” Nesbit said. “You don’t 
have to engage in that conversation alone.”
To show students what kinds of mental-
health resources UF provides, the directors of 
the Counseling & Wellness Center; U Matter, We Care; the Disability Resource Center and Gator Well explained the causes, signs and solutions to dealing with suicide, depression and anxiety.
Tanja Philhower, UF assistant dean of stu-
dents, said students should listen to the voice inside their heads. That can save their lives. 
If something doesn’t seem right, she said, 
it’s vital not to ignore that gut feeling and talk to someone who cares, whether that be a family member, friend or counselor.
 For Gregory, learning to love himself 
took time. For others, he said, it’s difﬁ  cult to understand his struggle because they can’t imagine ﬁ  tting their feet in his shoes. He said although society may want to ignore his sto-
ry, he won’t stop telling it.
“I think there’s always stigma around the 
things we don’t fully understand,” he said. 
“It’s cool that I get to talk to people about it.”THE BENEFIT WILL BE 
ON SATURDAY.
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Contributing Writer
In April, Future Music Makers 
Youth Enrichment Program was awarded $15,000.
It was the prize for winning the largest crowdfunding festival in 
the world, the One Spark compe-
tition. The program within a new nonproﬁ  t organization is designed to offer scholarships to young mu-sicians.
On Saturday, the new organi-
zation will partner with Swamp Records to host a beneﬁ  t concert to raise funds for the scholarships. Held at The Jam, the event will 
feature some of Florida’s local 
bands including Flat Land, Bells and Robes, and other musicians.
“This event is so important be-
cause music education is constant-
ly losing money in schools, and I 
think art is one of the most cru-cial aspects of becoming a person and getting that creative aspect of yourself,” said Ana Rojo, the pub-
lic relations director of Flat Land at 
Swamp Records.
Tickets will be sold at the door 
for $10, and donations will be ac-cepted throughout the night. All 
sales and donations will go directly 
into funding the nonproﬁ  t organi-zation, Rojo, 22, said.
The event will begin at 7 p.m. and will last until the venue closes 
at 2 a.m.
“The live music and entertain-
ment alone is well worth the ad-
mission,” Grant McLeod, Flat Land’s drummer, said.  
“We are just hoping we can 
make at least two young artists’ dreams come true with the help of the Gainesville community,” he  The Jam hosts benefit concert for aspiring musicians
SG helps students relax before ﬁ  nals, talk about mental health
Flying yoga and hammocks Fighting mental health stigmas
‘Continuing the Fight’
This week, Student Government taught 
students about mental health.  Today, it will 
host “Continuing the Fight” on Turlington Plaza from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., where students will be reminded about the importance of ﬁ  ghting mental-health stigmas.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Going out with a bang: It’s been a pleasure
In January 2014, I walked into the Alliga-
tor ofﬁ  ce for its open house. I was a soph-omore at the time, and I went straight to the then-opinions editor with, “I’d like to write a sex column.”
Her “yes,” cheesy as it sounds, was life-
changing.
I have written this column for almost two 
years now, which has allowed me to have a pretty… “unique” college experience. For that, I want to thank you, the readers.
Sex and sexuality, more so than many other topics, 
are incredibly intimate. To write about them, to really do them justice, you have to get personal.
This sometimes proved uncomfortable, but it has 
mostly been rewarding. Writing this column gave me the opportunity to have a personal rapport with readers that would’ve been impossible to establish with other subjects.
I started writing this column because I wanted to talk 
about sex, but it has become so much more than that. I hope I have challenged some of you to think about sex and sexuality differently.
 As big a fan as I am of the controversial, my desire 
to write this column stemmed from more than just that. Sex is interesting and fun, sure, but it’s incredibly im-portant — and, all too often, it is one of those things we talk about the least.
So, I set out to start a discussion about the taboo.Judging by how many people have commented on 
my work — including positive and negative remarks — my writing has, at the very least, sparked a conversa-
tion or two.
Some of those conversations have not been pretty. 
Because of sexuality’s taboo nature, some people still 
feel uncomfortable reading about sex, especially in their own “college” newspaper.
My favorite comment I’ve ever received on one of 
my columns asked: “Can you write about anything oth-er than sex or does your life consist solely of getting plowed?”
Of course not. I take timeouts to eat, sleep 
and write this column.
I hope what I have gotten across is that 
sex is incredibly multi-faceted; it demands 
and deserves conversation in our society.
Sex is not just about watching Netﬂ  ix and 
chilling. It’s not just one-night stands and 
jacking off and #ButtStuff2k15.
It IS all of those things, but it is also more: 
It’s reproductive rights. It’s using contracep-
tion and having safer sex. It’s consent. It’s gaining the conﬁ  dence and courage to ask for what you want sexu-ally.
Sex isn’t just the fun stuff, it’s also the serious stuff. 
My hope with this column was to inﬂ  uence a change, however small, in society’s outlook on sexuality.
And change can indeed be small: I once met a guy 
at a party who thanked me for writing this column be-cause it encouraged him to buy lube and a vibrator, and he’s been “killing the game” ever since.
Change can also be big, such as encouraging 50,000 
readers to talk openly about their sexualities and, all 
things willing, convincing them to take their sexual 
health and desires into their own hands.
I hope within the past two years I have changed the 
way at least a few of you think about sex.
So, think of this piece as the profanity-riddled, leg-
shake-inducing ﬁ  nish to an entirely satisfactory sexual experience. Because even the best things in life — sex, this column, naps, your drink — have to end eventu-ally.
I hope I haven’t been a selﬁ  sh partner and some of 
you will have left this column satisﬁ  ed by the time I’ve ﬁ  nished.
Thanks for reading; it’s been a pleasure — pun in-
tended.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.
Well, ﬁ  nals are now upon us. As many of you grab your 
face and cover your mouth in disbelief, curl your hair, bite your 
nails or indulge in other popular nervous habits of choice, take 
refuge in the knowledge that we’re still here, and yes, Darts & 
Laurels is still around to provide comfort to the afﬂ  icted.
With tears rolling down our eyes and onto our keyboards, 
it’s time to introduce this semester’s last edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
UF President Kent Fuchs: charming UF administrator or the 
MOST charming UF administrator? With Fuchs’ formal inau-guration occurring today after a week of celebration, it’s worth 
pausing to reﬂ  ect on just how visible Fuchs has been since he 
assumed his duties in January. As quick as we are to rag on authority ﬁ  gures, we acknowledge that these are not positions of comfort and ease: They’re ﬁ  lled to the brim with bureau-
cracy, frustration and the need to please everyone in every 
conceivable scenario.
But, somehow, someway, Fuchs has managed to keep co-
min’ up with new ways to make it look easy, like, every single day. No, we’re not just saying this because he contributes to 
the Alligator from time to time (although it certainly helps)  
— despite being the president of a school of 50,000, Fuchs has shown more excitement and engagement with the Student Body than what many of us have grown accustomed to over 
our myriad years in the American education system. Look no 
further than his turn as Mr. Two Bits on Saturday or the al-most alarming frequency with which he can be spotted chat-ting with students on campus.
For setting a tremendous example for the goodwill and en-
thusiasm a passionate public educator can engender, Presi-
dent Fuchs gets an orange-and-blue Laurel.
Metformin, a drug typically used to treat Type 2 diabetes, 
made headlines this week when researchers announced it may 
have anti-aging properties that could enable people to live up 
to their 120s. Beginning next year, scientists will begin a clini-cal trial to see the effects of Metformin on adults aged 70 to 80. Apparently, Metformin can slow the aging process by increas-ing the amount of oxygen in our body’s cells.
For reinforcing the somewhat scary fact that the future is 
well and truly here, Metformin gets an elderly but spry Lau-
rel.
After an 11-year absence from television, it was announced 
Thursday that animated program “Samurai Jack” is returning courtesy of Adult Swim, with original creator Genndy Tarta-kovsky in tow. If you can’t appreciate the signiﬁ  cance of this, you either spent your childhood outdoors, didn’t have much of a childhood to speak of or couldn’t appreciate good art as it’s 
staring you in the face.
As cynical as we are about current pop culture’s never-
ending regurgitation of ideas and fetishizing of nostalgia, this 
is too damn exciting to not give this news a Laurel.
On top of spouting racist garbage, mocking the disabled 
and dabbling in fascism, Donald Trump can now proudly add anti-Semite to his sterling resume following comments made at Thursday’s Republican Jewish Coalition summit. Look it up for yourselves: We’re over it. Dart.
It is highly likely that in the wee hours of this morning, 
many students shipped off to catch the tail end of Art Basel, the annual arts and culture festival that lies at the heart of Miami Art Week. For actively ﬁ  ghting the more negative con-
notations associated with our lovely state (see: Florida Man), 
Art Basel gets a Laurel.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
On Monday morning, I 
read a piece in this very section by Michael Beato, 
a genuinely great guy 
with a stronger grip on 
style and common sense than I could ever hope for. I have a lot of 
respect for him, a sentiment made 
stronger by the fact we hardly ever agree on anything political. I haven’t had too many conversations with the guy, but, based on previous experience, I’d 
much rather spend an hour — or even an af-
ternoon — shooting the political shit with Mi-chael than any college Democrat in the area.
Monday’s column was even better than 
usual. I tend to enjoy his pieces because they force me to peer out of the echo chamber that is my usual reading and engage with an opin-ion wildly different from my own. I ﬁ  nd that this keeps me humble, or at least grounded, 
so I don’t simply take my own ideas and opin-
ions for granted. Like good writers should, he makes me work for my beliefs.
Monday’s column concerned the ever-as-
cendant campus-carry bill and the reasons I shouldn’t be afraid of concealed carry coming to UF. I remember smirking my way through the piece, thinking, “You sneaky bastard!” over and over again because he made points 
I was ﬁ  nding difﬁ  cult to undermine. If you 
ﬁ  nd the time, read it online or dig through a week’s worth of trash somewhere: It’ll be worth your while.
But, as I write this column in the immediate 
wake of the San Bernardino, California, mas-sacre, I feel the urge to retort. What I found eloquent and even somewhat convincing at 9 a.m. Monday now requires urgent refuting. 
I’ve remembered why I strongly disagree with 
campus concealed carry in the ﬁ  rst place.
I’m not going to drum up fears that li-
censed concealed carriers will suddenly go 
nuts and shoot students and/or faculty at will. 
That would be dishonest, fear-based rhetoric, and I feel there’s enough of that going around already.
Here’s the thing with campus concealed 
carry: It’s fundamentally unnecessary. Truth be told, I’d be ambivalent about the idea on most days. After all, as Michael said, if the bill passes, the hypothetical guns would be con-
cealed. Visually, nothing would change. Life would go on, end of story. Now, 
as for the other reasons support-ers always cite: They’re all hack-
neyed bullshit. I ﬁ  nd the idea that 
concealed-carry legislation would lead to a decline in campus rapes to be incredibly patronizing, see-
ing as most campus rapes are com-
mitted by acquaintances and not shadowy boogeymen jumping out 
from behind bushes. In the event concealed carry on campus did indeed somehow prevent 
even one rape, I would happily admit to being 
wrong.
The other prong of the argument for per-
mitting concealed carry on campus is that its 
introduction will deter mass shootings. The 
logic here can be seen in the reﬂ  exive reac-tion of any gun fetishist when news of anoth-er mass shooting breaks: This wouldn’t have happened if it weren’t a “gun-free zone.” That 
incantation should be familiar to all of us. It’s 
an inversion of logic. Shooters don’t attack these places because they’re gun free. They attack these places because they are highly 
populated and outside direct state supervision 
— which is precisely WHY they’re gun free. If you’re looking for other reasons why this ar-gument is garbage, listen to the armed veteran present at the Umpqua Community College 
shooting in Oregon dismantle the “good guy 
with a gun” theory.
At the end of the day, I can live with faulty 
arguments. What I cannot abide is the con-
tinued victory of gun fetishism in this coun-
try. This was made clear to me again after Wednesday’s attack on a center for the dis-abled in California. The shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, happened not even three years 
ago; because we failed to act then, thousands 
of Americans have since died in mass shoot-ings. I can’t ﬁ  nd the speciﬁ  c number now be-cause this week’s tally has yet to be added to 
the national statistics.
We have to end this sometime. As for 
myself, I’ve had enough. I’ve had enough 
of saying “I’ve had enough.” I refuse to give one more inch to the sickening creeps whose 
livelihoods depend on preventing measures to 
prevent mass death. We have to ﬁ  ght against it in every form. I’m sorry, Michael.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.A retort to concealed-carry advocatesColumn
Toward the end of my freshman year, I decided to switch my major to 
economics. I found its 
unique blend of social 
science and math fascinating, and I was excited to pursue a 
degree in it. When I told one of 
my friends in the College of En-gineering about my decision, he laughed at me. “Economics?” he said. “What a joke. You should pick some-
thing that matters if you want to get a job 
someday.” I nodded and smiled while making a mental note to demote him from “friend” to “mild acquaintance.”
I knew he was just being playfully rude, 
but his remark troubled me. He wasn’t the only person I knew who held non-STEM subjects in low regard, and this attitude has seemed to become more prevalent in 
the time I’ve spent at UF.
The acronym STEM stands for science, 
technology, engineering and math. There 
is no doubt people who study these sub-
jects often go on to do great things for so-
ciety, from building bridges to developing new vaccines. 
STEM subjects also tend to receive 
more funding, and STEM graduates have 
access to higher entry-level salaries. As 
a result, STEM subjects are often held in higher esteem than other degrees.
I agree that STEM subjects are incredi-
bly important, and I have great respect for students who are truly passionate about them. However, it is incredibly misguided to think anything not encompassed within these four categories has less value.
The sheer diversity of subjects that fall 
outside the realm of STEM renders this ar-gument completely false. Non-STEM sub-jects include everything from education to 
journalism. 
To say teachers and reporters ﬁ  ll less 
important roles in society than doctors and 
scientists is simply not true. The impact of a classroom’s success is harder to quantify 
than that of a medical breakthrough, but 
that does not mean one is more signiﬁ  cant than the other.
Another common criticism 
of non-STEM degrees is it is too 
difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd a job in these 
ﬁ  elds upon graduation. This no-tion is inherently ridiculous, as there are literally thousands of 
different kinds of jobs. True, 
certain ﬁ  elds have higher num-bers of employment than others, but if you are truly passionate 
about something and willing to work hard 
for it, there will be opportunities.
This notion also disregards the true 
purpose of pursuing a degree. Learning 
more about something that genuinely ex-
cites you is what higher education is all 
about. What you make of that afterward is what ﬁ  nding a job is all about. 
I have a friend who majored in 18th-
century feminist literature and now works 
at a prestigious publishing house in New 
York City thanks to a professor’s rec-ommendation. I also have a friend who dropped out of college altogether because 
his “practical” engineering major made 
him miserable. Of course, these are in-dividualized examples of speciﬁ  c people, and not everyone will have the same ex-perience. However, they serve to dem-
onstrate true passion, for even the most 
obscure of subjects can often be more valuable than picking a major for its per-ceived stability.
To freshmen wrestling with which ma-
jor to pursue, I have but one message: Pick something you love. If being a chemical engineer has been your dream since day one, go for it, but don’t do it just because 
it seems “safer” or “more legitimate” than 
something else. Every subject is impor-tant, from chemical engineering to Scan-dinavian history. Even if some ﬁ  elds have 
fewer jobs available, one thing remains 
true: Every ﬁ  eld has room for passion and hard work.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.STEM subjects are not the only 
important paths to pursue in collegeColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Namwan
 Leavell
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
Students paint ceramic holiday decorations during a DIY holiday workshop in the Arts and Crafts Center on Thursday. Fifty-nine mugs and 83 ornaments were decorated.A student paints a mug during a do-it-yourself holiday workshop in 
the Arts and Crafts Center in the Reitz Union on Thursday. A total of 104 people attended.Merry Mugs
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Palak Patel, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, paints an ornament during Reitz Union Board Enter-tainment’s “Merry Mug Making” event in the Arts and Crafts Center in the Reitz Union on Thursday. “I’m painting an ornament for my older sister for her birthday, ” she said. “It says ‘live for yourself. ’”FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
15 years  after switching from cigarettes to vaping, 
risk of heart attack becomes that of a non-smoker ..
7327 NW 4th Blvd.
Gainesville, Fl 32607(352) 226-887510am - 10pm
See classified ad for
819 W. University Ave
352-872-5655
PROFESSIONAL  
BODY  
MODIFICATIONS,
TATTOO,  &
PIERCING
SERVICES
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Compared to their predecessors 
a year ago, fresh and inexperienced 
Santa Fe College Student Senate members had a smooth semester learning the basics of legislation.
In Fall 2014, Senate was divided 
during a failed attempt to impeach former Senate President Jeremy Pierce, who completed his one-year term at the end of Spring 2015. This Fall, Senate mostly approved new senators, leadership team members, directors and committee chair mem-bers while passing a handful of reso-lutions.
“I think it’s important to under-
stand and compare us to last year,” said Student Body President Conor Flynn.
Flynn said last Fall, Student Gov-ernment members and senators were pushing their own agendas and not tackling issues of the general stu-dent population. He said this semes-ter, Senate focused on addressing 
student needs.
“You’re seeing a Student Govern-
ment that’s united and working to-
gether,” Flynn said. “We’re pushing the issues of the students.”
Senate Pro Tempore Matthew 
Pearson said the semester was a time for the chamber, and SG to re-build and gain experience. Moving 
forward into the Spring, he said he 
hopes to see more resolutions writ-ten.
In his State of the Body address 
Wednesday, Flynn applauded the Senate for passing bills and resolu-tions related to e-cigarette regula-
tions, judicial subpoena power and 
Senate attendance policy.
Resolutions passed this semester 
included a November amendment changing college tobacco regulations to place e-cigarettes under the same rules as regular cigarettes.
The other two resolutions passed 
reinforced constitutional require-
ments and procedures for SG and 
Senate that Flynn said he hopes will allow for the chamber to function more efﬁ  ciently.
Flynn also outlined three issues 
he wants to tackle moving forward: ending student homelessness, ad-
dressing tobacco use on campus and 
furthering sustainability.
Senate President Carol Van 
Houten-Daugherty said she wants to reach out to more students in the Spring.
“I hope we reach out to more 
students,” Daugherty said. “That is the big thing on my agenda. I want 
to see more senators brought in and 
taught better.”
 Santa Fe College Senate looks back on Fall semester 
MORE ARTWORK WILL BE 
ADDED IN JANUARY.
By Michaela Steakley
Alligator Contributing Writer
Downtown Gainesville just got more 
colorful.
With the conclusion of the ﬁ  rst phase of 
352walls, a project designed to bring art to 
downtown Gainesville through murals, a new group of artists are expected to arrive beginning in January to add more artwork.
“We see it as an ongoing project,” said 
Russell Etling, the cultural affairs man-ager for City of Gainesville Parks, Recre-ation and Cultural Affairs Department. He said the project is a 10-year master plan 
for the development of arts and culture in 
Gainesville and Alachua County.
The project, also known as The 
Gainesville Urban Art Initiative, began 
bringing artists from all over the world to 
Gainesville at the end of October for the 
ﬁ  rst phase of artwork.
“I think the 352walls are a signiﬁ  cant 
example of a cultural renaissance that is happening in our community,” Etling said.
The cost of the ﬁ  rst phase of the proj-
ect was about $125,000, Etling said, which 
was largely funded by tourist development funds. The artists were not given a theme, but they were selected for the project based on their past work. The second round of artists will go through the same process.The project began with Iryna Kanish-
cheva, the project curator, who proposed the idea after photographing and studying murals around the world.
She talked to building owners in 
downtown and then approached Visit 
Gainesville, Etling, 60, said.
John Pricher, the executive director of 
Visit Gainesville, said he liked the idea and 
began ﬁ  nding ways to fund it.  
“Through our contract with the City of 
Gainesville to manage an arts program, there was surplus money for the ﬁ  rst time, and we were able to use that money to help make this project happen,” Pricher, 
45, said.
Jesus Martinez, 38, the owner of Vision-
ary CrossFit near downtown, helped paint 
the panels of the Make.Work building with 
other regional artists, including his wife, 
Carrie Wachter-Martinez, 40. They will paint again in January.
“I think Gainesville really needed the ex-
posure,” Martinez said. “There’s so many 
walls in Gainesville, and there’s no murals. 
I really think it was a positive thing that they did.”Murals bring color and culture to downtown Gainesville
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
A mural in the 352walls project decorates the north wall of The T op, facing North-
west First Avenue.
Smoother than last FallFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
12-9-15-17-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
ONLINE REAL ESTATE AUCTION - 721 Moody Bridge Rd., Cullowhee, NC. 3br/2bath home and 10 acres. Bidding starts Dec. 1st, 2015 Full details - BrooksAuctionServices.Com 864-379-1011. NCRE#25534, NCAUC#9822    12-4-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
Equipment Auction- Construction Equipment, Trucks, Trailers, and Masonry Support Equipment. Live and Online Bidding. Dec. 9th, 10AM, 450 Edge Rd., Villa Rica, GA. JoeyMartinAuctioneers.Com. 864-940-4800 GAAUC#NR002627    12-4-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-1298 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
COORDINATOR, friendly solo healthcare prac-tice. 10-14 hrs/wk. $11-14/hr. Pt. contact, records, accounts, HIPAA, ICD10 billing, scheduling, orga-nization/filing, phones, referrals. Non-smo.w/car. Spanish a+. FAX resume: 352-377-3193.    12-4-15-5-14RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
1-8-15-11-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring 
deli/bar help. No experience required. Must have reliable transportation. Applications ac-cepted at either 2327 NW 13th St or 5156 SW 34th St location.   12-9-15-6-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    12-4-1-14Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    12-4-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On BonusMake $55k a YearGreat Benefits + 401K$500 Holiday BonusCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com    12-4-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
See ad on page: 
Say secret word, Get
This Week’s secret word: SEC9
ACROSS
1 “The Jungle
Book” villain
10 Character in the
comic “Mutts”
15 Stubborn
16 Howe’er17 Mutton dish18 Title from the
Arabic for
“master”
19 Litter call
20 Orchestra sect.21 Electric guitar
effect
22 Christmas __23 Mate’s affirmative24 2013 Spike
Jonze film
25 Arctic coast
explorer
26 “Revolutionary
Road” authorRichard
28 “... high hope for
__ heaven”:Shak.
30 Mil. awards
31 Part of many a
date
33 Cheapen
35 Diagonally ... or
what each of four
pairs of puzzleanswers form?
38 To date
39 Virtuous41 Cry of discomfort44 Romantic
evening highlight,perhaps
46 Shore up, as an
embankment
48 Mil. branch49 Present50 Munch on52 Former Abbey
Road Studiosowner
53 Gradual
revelation
55 Center
56 Record57 Ice cream
thickeners
58 Peggy Lee
specialty
61 Alabama River
city
62 Chestnut
63 C.S. Lewis hero64 “Looney Tunes”
lisper
DOWN
1 Half of a cartoon
duo
2 “Yoo-hoo!”
3 1944 Pacific
battle site
4 Univ. peer
leaders
5 Command level:
Abbr.
6 __-face7 Winter warmer
8 Violinist who
taught Heifetz
9 State north of
Victoria: Abbr.
10 Electromagnetic
wave generator
11 Norse royal name12 Leftovers
13 President before
Sarkozy
14 Friend of Calvin
21 Nuke23 “A chain ... strong
__ weakest link”
24 Rail rider27 French spa29 Kind of
vegetarian30 Caterpillar rival
32 Linguistic root
34 Derisive sound36 “Yikes!”
37 Disentangle
40 Paper with a
Société section
41 Scar’s brother42 Oklahoma
natives
43 Along with the
rest
45 __ network47 Pooh pal
49 Seder month
51 “Modern Family”
network
54 Aunt with a
“Cope Book”
55 Blessed58 Pulls a Charmin
shenanigan,briefly
59 Skedaddle60 Some routes:
Abbr.
By Craig Stowe©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/04/1512/04/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, December 4, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    12-4-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    12-4-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    12-4-1-15Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GUN SHOW - GEORGIA’S LARGESTDEC. 5-6SAT. 9-5 & SUN. 10-5ATLANTA EXPO CENTER(3650 JONESBORO RD SE)BUY-SELL-TRADEINFO: (563) 927-8176    12-4-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    12-4-1-16
Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save! Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923    12-4-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    12-4-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's offensive line is facing 
its toughest challenge of the season when it goes up against Alabama's defensive line on Saturday. Read the story on pg. 16.By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Barring an unforeseen man-
gling of the College Football 
Playoff rankings, Florida enters 
Saturday’s Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship Game solely focused on the 60 minutes of play and not on any championship possibilities, giving UF a chance to play spoiler of the Crimson 
Tide’s postseason dreams.
No. 2 Alabama (11-1), a sure-
ﬁ  re competitor in the CFP if it 
hauls in the SEC Championship, 
enters Saturday’s game favored 
by more than two touchdowns.
And with quarterback Treon 
Harris struggling to rein in a faltering offense, Florida coach Jim McElwain said he’s satisﬁ  ed with entering the game as the 
underdog.
That has been the story of 
UF’s season: surpassing expecta-
tions and making doubters look 
foolish.
“The Florida Gators and be-
ing a Gator carries a little extra. 
Because…it should never matter what you’re up against,” McEl-wain said. 
“There is a certain (kind) of, 
it’s not cocky, it’s calm and it’s a belief, and it’s something our guys are kind of starting to learn through what has been put to 
them from the past.”
McElwain has been more 
than reluctant to establish Ala-
bama’s advantage from a talent 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Pocket Aces: Setters' dominating serves highlights UF victory
UF volleyball's Abby Detering and Mackenzie Dagostino combined for seven aces 
in the win over New Hampsire. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports.Somehow, someway, the Gators 
made it back to the Southeast-ern Conference Championship Game. SEC East champ and No. 18 Florida faces the tumultuous 
task of going against the beasts of the West in No. 2 Alabama. The Crimson Tide have a chance to make it to the Col-lege Football Playoff and UF is looking to spoil their shot at making it to a second straight CFP.  If you’re one of the lucky few students who has tickets for the game, get ready for what will probably be a lopsided game in Atlanta.
Debating Saturday’s game between 
Texas and No. 12 Baylor is alligatorS-ports assistant editor Luis Torres and al-ligatorSports staff writer Graham Hack.
Texas will win because…
This game is simply about motiva-
tion. Although the Bears are the superior team, they have dropped two of their last three games, have lost their No. 1 and No. 2 quarterbacks and have nothing to 
play for in terms of conference or national 
aspirations. The Longhorns, meanwhile, are in a unique position despite the mis-erable season they’ve had to endure. 
With so many bowl games this year, 
a handful of 5-7 teams will make post-season appearances, and a win will put Texas in that position. If forced to chose a 5-7, every bowl committee will be 
clamoring to chose the Burnt Orange and 
it’s enormous fan base. 
The team that wants this game more 
will win, and that’s Texas.
— Graham Hack
Baylor will win because…
While Baylor is down to its third-
string quarterback, Chris Johnson, the Bears are still good enough to beat Texas. 
Hell, I could play quarterback for 
Baylor and I’d ﬁ  nd a way to beat the 
Longhorns. After all, they’ve been pretty 
terrible outside of their ﬂ  uke win against Oklahoma. 
Baylor still boasts the nation’s top 
scoring offense, putting up 50.8 points per game. 
Expect much of the same against Tex-
as, especially since Baylor lost to rival TCU in overtime last week. 
— Luis Torres
Now onto the picks!PICKS
SITE: Georgia Dome (cap. 71,228)
KICKOFF: 4 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF players run out of the tunnel prior to Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
FOOTBALL
UF embracing underdog label going into Atlanta
FLORIDA VOLLEYBALL TOPS 
NEW HAMPSHIRE 3-0, FACES 
FLORIDA STATE NEXT.
 By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
From start to ﬁ  nish, New Hampshire didn’t 
have an answer for Alex Holston.
On the ﬁ  rst and ﬁ  nal points of Florida’s 
opening NCAA Tournament match, the junior 
right-side hitter pounded kills from senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino.
Holston paired 10 kills with zero errors as 
the No. 11 seed Gators swept the Wildcats (25-15, 25-9, 25-15) Thursday night in the O’Connell Center.UF advanced one step further in the tourna-
ment and will face Florida State Friday night in 
the O'Connell Center at 7.
“It’s all about the chemistry with your set-
ter,” Holston said. “Obviously Mackenzie was 
able to dish out the ball.”
The Gators struck quickly and jumped to 
an early lead in set one. Holston pounded a kill to put UF up 1-0, and then a few points later Florida took off under Dagostino’s serve. The senior setter rallied off two aces to take an 8-4 
and 10-4 lead. Dagostino ﬁ  nished with a match-
high four aces.
Meanwhile, outside hitter Ziva Recek pul-
verized the Wildcats with her arm. The senior racked up six kills in the ﬁ  rst set, including back-to-back slams to take a 15-8 lead. Recek ﬁ  nished the match with 10 kills.
Florida then cruised to win set one 25-15, putting it away on a New Hampshire attack er-ror.
Sophomore setter Abby Detering took over 
the court in the second set. Up 12-6, Detering took the ball behind the service line nine times, resulting in eight straight points to go up 20-6.
The Mentor, Ohio, native aced the Wildcats 
twice during the run at 14-6 and 19-6 before ending the streak with a serve into the net two points later. Detering ﬁ  nished the match with three aces.
Coach Mary Wise said Detering didn’t ﬁ  nd a 
rhythm until the second set. 
“With that left hand she has an ability to 
move and locate the balls, so we took advan-tage of her not only serving the ball in but serv-ing aggressively,” Wise said.Gators sweep ﬁ  rst-round opponent in NCAAsSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15The Gators put set two away after 
a slew of New Hampshire attack er-
rors from Tori Forrest, who commit-ted four straight to hand Florida the 25-9 win.
Like the two prior sets, Florida 
took control early in set three. 
UF flew out to an 8-4 lead after 
Dagostino thumped a kill straight 
down at the net. But UNH answered, 
racking up three straight points.
Under Dagostino’s serve, the 
Gators then won four straight points to go ahead 12-7, including her third ace of the night.
New Hampshire pulled within 
two a few times in the points follow-ing, but the Gators found separation after leading 14-12.
UF rumbled off four straight 
points with the help of two kills by sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan to take an 18-12 lead.
Soon after, Dagostino served up 
her fourth ace of the night to give the Gators a 24-15 match point before setting Holston up for the match-ending kill.
The Gators return to the O’Connell 
Center Friday night to take on in-state rival FSU in a win-or-go-home match. Florida beat Florida State 3-1 at home in their lone matchup this season Sept. 20.
“Something Mary pointed out in 
the locker room is it’s not a rivalry match,” Dagostino said. “It’s just another team in the tournament that 
we have to face.”FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Carli Snyder and Rhamat Alhassan celebrate after scoring a point 
during Florida's 3-0 victory against New Hampshire on Thursday.
In first place with a record of 
55-47-2 is the Gator Country’s Nick 
“Punters Are People Too" de la Torre, who has had a borderline psychotic infatuation with redshirt sophomore 
punter Johnny Townsend. We get it, 
Nick. You loved hearing Edgar go on and on about KeKe, but that doesn't mean you need to go crazy, too.
In second place with a record of 
54-48-2 is Alligator managing/online editor Jordan “Can you pick me up?” McPherson, who before each alliga-torSports road trip this season has 
asked for someone to pick him up at 
his dorm. C’mon Jordan, when are you getting that license you’ve been talking about getting for the past two years?
We have a two-way tie for third 
place with records of 52-50-2.
First up is The Palm Beach Post’s 
Anthony “Mr. 305 LOL JK” Chiang, 
who says he's more Miami than mu-
sic artist PitBull. C'mon Anthony, it's the last time we'll do this, but just give it up. Mr. #Unincorporated-DadeCounty. 
Next is alligatorSports assistant 
editor Luis “Selfie on selfie” Torres, who upgraded his phone to the 128 GB version just so he can take more 
selfies of himself and his dog. C’mon 
Luis, maybe if you were so stoked to write a story each day like you are with taking selfies, maybe you wouldn’t be as terrible as a writer as you think you are. 
In fifth place with a record of 50-
52-2 is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “Heavy Artillery” Thompson, who 
decided to pull out the big guns dur-ing this week’s media session to take 
videos: his iPad. C’mon Edgar, we already know you can’t take videos on your phone, why would you end up bringing something else to make a fool out of yourself?
In sixth place with a record of 46-
56-2 is alligatorSports editor Graham 
“Delete your Twitter, bro” Hall, who has been making some terrible puns 
on Twitter ranging from Star Wars to Mark Richt. C’mon Graham, maybe the force will be with you when ev-eryone comes after your recruiting news.  
And STILL in dead-ass-last with 
a piss-poor record of 43-59-2 is alli-
gatorSports writer Graham “For once not the most-hated Graham” Hack, 
who … ah man, who the hell are we kidding? You still are. 
But wait! Hack isn’t alone at the 
bottom.
Joining Hack at the bottom of 
the picks column totem pole is 247Sports’ Thomas “Twitter chat” 
Goldkamp, who loves conversing with his legions of followers to spread 
his football wisdom. Hey Goldkamp, we know you spend all those hours watching film to look smart to the masses, but maybe you should de-vote some more time to getting your picks right. People won’t take your Twitter wisdom seriously if you fin-
ish behind Hack.
PICKS,  from pg14UF beat FSU 3-1 earlier this season
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF vs BAMA (-17.5)  UF  UF  UF  BAMA
TEM vs HOU (-7)  HOU  HOU  HOU  TEMUSC vs STAN (-4.5)  STAN  STAN  STAN  STANMSU (-3.5) vs IOWA  MSU  MSU  MSU  MSUUNC vs CLEM (-5)  UNC  CLEM  CLEM  CLEMSMU vs WKU (-7.5)  WKU  SMU  SMU  WKUAF vs SDSU (-4)  AF  AF  SDSU  AFBGU (-12) vs NIU  NIU  NIU  BGU  NIU
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF vs BAMA (-17.5)  UF  UF  UF  BAMA
TEM vs HOU (-7)  HOU  HOU  HOU  HOUUSC vs STAN (-4.5)  STAN  STAN  STAN                   STAN
MSU (-3.5) vs IOWA  MSU  MSU  MSU  MSUUNC vs CLEM (-5)  CLEM  UNC  UNC  UNCSMU vs WKU (-7.5)  WKU  WKU  SMU  SMUAF vs SDSU (-4)  SDSU  AF  SDSU  AFBGU (-12) vs NIU  NIU  NIU  BGU  BGUstandpoint. There are numerous 
playmakers — Antonio Calla-way, Kelvin Taylor and Demar-
cus Robinson carrying a chip 
on his shoulder — that can test Alabama’s defense, which has allowed the second-least amount 
of yards to opposing teams this 
season.
And the No. 18 Gators (10-
2) can’t be afraid of going all-in on running back Derrick Henry, 
who leads the nation with 22 
rushing touchdowns.
“We know what they can do 
on the offensive side of the ball,” 
safety Marcus Maye said. “We 
put in the game plan and we feel like our defense is one of the best in the nation.”
McElwain said that one of the 
messages he’s tried to get across to the team this week is believ-ing they’re able to beat Alabama without it being an upset.
After all, entering a confer-
ence championship with a level playing field but believing your team is inferior to the opponent is not the winning mindset McEl-
wain brought to Gainesville.
“They’re going against the 
best program in the country,” McElwain stressed, “and yet, 
they’ve got to realize at some 
point in their life that all you can 
do is go out and play your tail off, pay attention to detail and focus on one play at a time.
“I think they’ve just scratched 
the surface as far as where we’re headed as an organization, from the support and commitment to all the things that go into being 
successful.”
Win or lose, McElwain wants 
the focus to remain on how spe-
cial UF’s season was this year. Picked to finish fifth in the SEC 
East in what was almost unani-
mously dubbed a rebuilding year by people outside the program, McElwain and his staff ignored 
the doubts from outside and kept 
believing in the game plan.
Now, the Gators and their 
Montana man for a coach hope Saturday’s game is the epitome 
of this season’s development 
rather than an upset over Ala-bama.
“Understanding what they’re 
about to embark on…is part of the discovery. That’s playing in the SEC Championship Game,” McElwain said. 
“They’re Florida Gators. Let’s 
go do it.”FOOTBALL,  from pg14Florida was picked to 
finish fifth in the SEC VOLLEY,  from pg1416   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015
25$ off 
your activation fee
Visit Cricket Wireless at:
3558 SW Archer Rd,
Gainesville FL
When you bring this
coupon in 
*on qualifying plans*
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Florida’s offensive line has seen its share of 
ups and downs throughout the season. 
Thought to be a weak link at the season’s 
start, the unit has since become one of the 
more consistent elements on offense
Coach Jim McElwain said that, for the ﬁ  rst 
time all season against Florida State, the line 
came together and played with purpose and intensity. Granted, it came during a 27-2 loss against the Seminoles, but the progress has to be encouraging for McElwain, because what awaits No. 18 Florida and its offensive line on Saturday in the Southeastern Conference 
Championship is a different animal, one that 
they haven’t seen all year.
No. 2 Alabama boasts one of the best de-
fensive lines in the entire country. They’re big, 
fast, physical and relentless. It’s been a com-
mon theme for the Crimson Tide ever since 
Nick Saban became their coach in 2007.
McElwain witnessed how good those de-
fensive lines were while working as the offen-
sive coordinator at Alabama from 2008-11.
The only difference he sees in this year’s 
defensive line is the deeper rotation it has.
“I think it’s just a different year and they put 
on a different jersey number,” McElwain said. “I think what I see this year is more depth. 
They’re rolling more guys, staying fresher, 
which is not comforting, because you’d rather see them a little tired.”
Alabama leads the country in rushing de-
fense, allowing just 78.9 yards per game while adding 86 tackles for loss this year.
Defensive end Jonathan Allen is third in the 
SEC with 9 sacks this season and has added 11.5 tackles for loss. 
A’Shawn Robinson is a load to handle as 
well. Even though he doesn’t have the same numbers as Allen does — Robinson has just 3 sacks and 7 tackles for loss — he deserves the same amount of attention because of the havoc he can create.
For the Gators’ offensive line to have any chance against the Crimson Tide’s front, they 
have to win at the point of attack and adjust to 
the amount of bodies Alabama throws at them.
“They rotate eight or nine guys on the de-
fensive line,” guard Trip Thurman said. “That’s going to be really key for us kind of watching them on ﬁ  lm, each guy, knowing their moves and things like that.”What might be working in Florida’s favor 
is that the offensive line faces one of the coun-try’s better defensive fronts in practice each day: the Gators themselves.
UF also has All-SEC caliber defensive line-
men like Jon Bullard, who sits fourth in the conference with 15.5 tackles for loss. Combine him with Bryan Cox Jr., CeCe Jefferson, Caleb 
Brantley, Joey Ivie and Alex McCalister — be-
fore he went down with a foot injury  — and the Gators’ offensive line certainly has an ad-vantage heading into the game.“It’s good we get that look, we get that 
one-on-one look every week for these past 14 weeks,” offensive tackle Mason Halter said of facing UF’s defense in practice. 
“We’re deﬁ  nitely prepared, and coach Mac 
prepared us all through camp and everything like that.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely an advantage and we just 
have to go out there and prove it.”
Just how great that advantage is will be de-
termined when the game kicks off on Saturday at 4 p.m. in the Georgia Dome. 
UF oﬀ  ensive line faces tough test in ‘Bama defensive line
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Offensive linemen Trip Thurman, Tyler Jordan and Mason Halter protect quarterback Treon Harris during Florida’s 27-2 loss to 
Florida State on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Alabama is No. 1 in rush de fense