By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gators ﬁ  lled their growling stom-
achs with buttered chicken and 
spring rolls in the Florida Gymna-sium on Tuesday night.
About 750 students tasted foods 
from 10 different Asian countries — from Malaysia to Thailand — to celebrate Asian Kaleidoscope Month, 
where AKM held its annual food fes-
tival, said event director Calvin Lu, 20.
UF behavioral and cognitive 
neuroscience freshman and Asian-American Student Union service chair Lauren Vu said she enjoyed the event. 
“When people think ‘Asian,’ they 
think ‘Chinese’ or ‘Japanese,’” the 18-year-old said. “They really don’t think about Bangladesh or India, so I’m really glad to see a multitude of different cultures.”This year, the Asian-American 
Student Union brought more Asian organizations on campus to partici-pate in the event. Clubs representing each country were responsible for bringing food and organizing activi-ties. Event director Derek Vinluan, 
21, said AKM invites all people to 
learn about Asian culture, even if they’re not afﬁ  liated with it.
“Food is a big part of Asian cul-
ture, and to be able to showcase that — and through cultural activities — it raises awareness about Asian countries’ cultures,” the UF con-struction management senior said.
The event also featured a food-
eating contest and performances by students, Lu said.
“You get to experience so many 
different ethnic groups come togeth-er in one location and enjoy food to-gether,” the UF chemical engineering junior said. “It’s a really nice inter-sectionality between the greater UF 
community.”We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 42 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
UF women’s basketball sophomore 
poised for breakout year
Coach Amanda Butler has praised Dyandria 
Anderson’s growth, pg. 14
Get it started: UF holds startup fair
It will be today from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., pg. 3
UF colleges host paper-airplane competition 
to raise money
It went toward the UF Campaign for Charities, pg. 5Stay in touch
For updates on all things UF, like us on 
Facebook and follow us on Twitter 
(@TheAlligator) and Instagram (@TheAlligator_)
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
(From left) Kevin Sardja, a 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior; Rebekah Kim, a 19-year-old UF physics soph-
omore; and Candice Luc, a 19-year-old UF civil engineering sophomore, divide rice onto the plates students used to carry food at Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s annual Food Festival. See more on page 8.
 Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributor Writer
 For former Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), the 
approval of the Americans with Disabilities Act 
was a family matter.
In the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tues-
day night, Harkin described his role and invest-
ment in the act.  He was its chief sponsor, and he shared family stories about his connection to 
it to an audience of about 450.
The act was signed into law July 26, 1990. 
It prohibits the discrimination of persons with disabilities in the workforce, public transporta-tion and commercial facilities, Harkin said.
One of his inspirations for passing the act 
was his older brother, Frank Harkin. His broth-er attended the Iowa School for the Deaf and Dumb, Harkin said.“I remember my brother 
coming home and saying, ‘I may be deaf, but I’m not dumb,’” he said.
He said those with dis-
abilities were strong advo-
cates for the bill.
“We see a lot of pictures 
of the great Civil Rights 
Movement,” Harkin said. 
“But we’re not that familiar with the pictures of people with disabilities.”
Those people who protested, laid in front of buses and chained their wheelchairs together across Constitution Avenue in Washington, D.C., during rush hour trafﬁ  c made the bill pos-sible, Harkin said.
He said there is still work to do today, in-
cluding ensuring economic self-sufﬁ  ciency and 
de-institutionalization for those with disabili-
ties.  He also said the U.S. Senate should pass the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The United States is one of the few countries that hasn’t signed it.
At the end of his speech, Harkin taught the Former US senator speaks on disability act
Students eat food 
from Asian culturesCAMPUS
SHE WAS FOUND IN LOUISIANA.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce depu-
ties helped Louisiana authorities arrest a 
Gainesville man Tuesday after he reportedly kidnapped a local woman Monday.
About 10  a.m. Monday, a woman left the 
City College campus without bringing her cell phone, purse and other belongings, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesman Sgt. Bran-don Kutner said. She called friends about an hour later and asked them to pick her son up from daycare, but she didn’t offer more infor-mation, Kutner said.
At about 8 p.m., her friends called the Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce after receiving text messages and calls from the woman, who used an unknown number and only responded with yes-or-no answers.
“They could tell something was wrong,” Kutner said.
At about 2:35 a.m. Tuesday, a deputy called 
the woman, who said her son’s father, Curtis Williams, 29, was holding her at gunpoint, Kutner said.
“(A deputy) was able to keep her on the 
phone by using a ruse,” he said, adding that the deputy pretended to be a doctor calling about her son’s fever.
Authorities traced the call to Harvey, Loui-
siana, and the U.S. Marshals Service’s Regional Fugitive Task Force eventually found Williams’ car in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, according to a press release. Williams came outside to use his car, and marshals arrested him before ﬁ  nd-
ing the woman inside, according to the release. 
Kutner said Williams will be transferred 
to Gainesville to face kidnapping charges and 
an Aug. 10 warrant for battery involving the woman. Deputies and marshals arrest fugitive, rescue kidnapped womanHe still ights for disability rights
Harkin
SEE DISABILITY,  PAGE 4
“They could tell something was wrong.” 
Brandon Kutner
Sgt.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Halloween show
Celebrate the spooky season 
with Puppets of the Dead: Punk Halloween Variety Show, a thrilling and funny punk-in-
spired Halloween show, hosted 
by puppets. Local puppetry company Dolphin Wizard Co. and local musicians will pres-ent an evening of festive fun at 10:30 p.m. Saturday at Maude’s Sidecar Bar, located at 101 SE Second Place. UF students and alumni will perform on 
the patio by the Hippodrome 
State Theatre, featuring horror-movie burlesque, creepy mu-sic played by local musicians, handmade puppets and more. Dolphin Wizard Co. is an eco-friendly, alternative and educa-tional troupe, delivering both high- and low-brow humor in 
our irreverent and goofy pop 
rock shows, featuring punk rock, movie and cartoon paro-dies, geek humor and more. The show is free, with tips and donations encouraged for the performers.
Pledge Against Partner Violence 
Tie-Dye Tee GiveawayWear your pledge to not engage in partner violence. STRIVE (Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education) will trade you a tie-dyed T-shirt for edu-cation about intimate partner 
violence and what you can do 
to prevent it. The giveaway will be Thursday on the Plaza of the Americas at 11 a.m. until sup-plies last.
“What I Need to Prepare If I 
Receive a Fulbright Award and Go Abroad”
This workshop will be pre-
sented by Karen Reed, clinical assistant and professor of nurs-ing.Reed was a Fulbright Scholar in Cambodia for the 2013-2014 academic year. There she taught as a visiting professor at the Kampot Regional Training 
Center in Kampot, Cambodia 
as well as conducted profes-sional development programs for Cambodian nursing faculty, nurses and nursing administra-tors.This event is free and open to the public, but registration is required by visiting www.
eventbrite.com For more in-
formation, contact Dr. Charles Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Sustainable Transportation Fair
Join Sustainable UF and Transportation and Parking Services for the 2015 Sustainable Transportation Fair today from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the north-east corner of the Reitz Union Lawn behind Marston Science 
Library and the Hub. Come out 
to learn more about the sus-tainable transportation options on campus and in the commu-nity through interactive tabling activities, electric vehicle ex-hibits, games and more. This event is free and open to all UF staff, faculty and students. For 
more information, visit sustain-
able.ufl.edu/events.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 42
HIGH  82° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
UF ﬁ  fth-year industrial engineering student 
Sheldon Barrett said he came up with the idea 
for his own company when he medically with-drew from UF.
In 2009, he was diagnosed with stage 2 high 
blood pressure, so he left UF for a semester and during this time came up with the idea for his company.
But the 28-year-old said he loves having his 
own company, called Cocovana. He is now manufacturing his ﬁ  rst product — the “Coco-nut Twist,” a device that opens coconuts like a can opener opens cans. He said it is the ﬁ  rst product to open a coconut safely and quickly.
“It’s so empowering to have your own start-
up and be your own boss,” he said.
Barrett said that when he was ﬁ  rst diag-
nosed with high blood pressure, his doctor prescribed medications, but they didn’t help. However, he found that drinking fresh coconut water was the best way to combat his symp-toms.
Living in South Florida, he said he could 
drink from the coconuts growing on the palm trees in his yard. When his father was not home to use the machete, Sheldon had no way of opening the coconuts. It was then that he decided to create a solution.
Barrett said Coconut Twist will retail for 
$24.99, and he hopes for it to be sold next to WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!By Lamia Chowdhury
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will hand their resumes to startup 
businesses today in the hopes of landing a summer internship.
UF’s Career Resource Center is partnering 
with the Entrepreneurship Club to host the 
second Startup Job and Internship Fair from 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m. in the Reitz Union Breezeway. The fair serves to help students network with startup company recruiters, said Natalie Mor-rison, CRC’s assistant director for employer development. 
Although the fair will still predominantly 
feature local startups, representatives from Orlando, Jacksonville and Tampa will also be 
present, she said. 
The event is designed for companies ﬁ  ve 
years and younger with no more than 80 em-
ployees. The employers are seeking students with entrepreneurial interests, Morrison said. 
“Our goal is to keep it local and support the 
local community,” she said.
UF digital arts and sciences sophomore Na-
talia Pulido said she is hoping to land a part-
time job or summer internship.
“Usually in small companies, it’s better for 
getting experience since they give you a wider 
range of responsibilities,” the 19-year-old said.  Get it started: UF holds startup fair
UF mechanical engi-
neering senior Adam Silver came up with his company, Simply Ingenious Products, 
watching his grandmother 
struggle to get up from her 
couch. He started it last May.
He said it does exactly 
what the name describes 
— making “simply ingenious” products.
“We live around Albert Einstein’s motto to 
‘make everything as simple as possible, but not simpler,’” Silver said.
The 22-year-old is working on the ﬁ  nal 
prototype of his ﬁ  rst product, the “Stand-A-Roo,” which is a foldable, portable and fully adjustable device that ﬁ  ts under couch cush-ions. It’s arms rise through the gaps of the couch to give the user leverage to help them stand.
Silver said he has invested $15,000 of 
his own money into it so far and currently 
has a six-ﬁ  gure investment for a conﬁ  dential 
amount of his company. He hasn’t decided if he will take the offer yet.
“Millions of elderly, disabled, pregnant, 
overweight and rehabilitating persons strug-gle to get up from their couch daily,” Silver said. “This product can really help people.”UF marketing junior 
Andrew Birkett came 
up with a themed card 
game his senior year 
of high school, but it wasn’t until college when he realized it was a good idea.
Birkett, 20, launched 
his card-game company, 
Atheris Games, in his ﬁ  rst year of college.
He launched a Kickstarter fundraiser  
on Thursday night for his new card game, “Cul-De-Sac Conquest.” He said he raised $10,000 in 52 hours.
In Cul-De-Sac Conquest, each player’s 
purpose is to annoy his or her neighbors out of the neighborhood.
His other creation is “Holeshot He-
roes,” an automotive-themed card game 
where racers compete against each other. 
Players can upgrade their cars, sabotage their opponents’ cars and race on differ-ent tracks. He said the game has potential investors.
Birkett said it is stressful running his 
own company as a student.
“But every time I see someone get 
excited about my game idea, it makes it 
worth it.”Birkett
 Silver
UF industrial engineer-
ing senior Sheldon Barrett 
thought of his company 
while on a medical leave from college in 2009 af-ter being diagnosed with Stage 2 high blood pres-sure.
He found drinking 
fresh coconut water was the best way to combat his symptoms. But he had no way of opening the coconuts in his South Florida yard when his father wasn’t home to use the machete. 
Now the 28-year-old founder of Cocova-
na is manufacturing the “Coconut Twist,” a device that opens coconuts like a can opener opens cans. He said it is the ﬁ  rst product to open a coconut safely and quickly.
Coconut Twist will retail for $24.99, and 
he said he hopes it will be sold next to fresh coconuts in grocery stores.
“It’s so empowering to have your own 
startup and be your own boss.”
He said the UF community is full of great 
contacts, so he would advise students to take advantage of networking.    Barrett
Bios by Sara Pearlman / AlligatorBy Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
Homeowners can save water 
with a tap on their smartphone.
UF’s Institute of Food and Ag-
ricultural Sciences recently found 
that its Smart Irrigation Turf ap-plication is helping homeowners conserve water used for their 
lawn grass, said Kati Migliaccio, 
the app’s lead designer.
“It gives you a way to apply 
water that will meet your plants’ 
needs,” she said. “At the same time, it will help you not over-irrigate.”
The app was created in 2013, 
and it works by generating a schedule based on a homeown-er’s information, such as where the property is located and what 
kind of sprinklers are being used, 
Migliaccio said.
Once the information is put in, 
the app will specify how many minutes to run water for accord-
ing to the area’s weather.
UF irrigation and water re-
sources master’s student Eliza 
Breder said she used the app for an irrigation class.
“I used it for a project I had,” 
the 24-year-old said. “It was re-ally useful for setting up an irri-
gation schedule.”
UF IFAS research associate 
Bernard Cardenas-Lailhacar said 
he believes the app is helpful.
“It has the potential to save a 
lot of water if used correctly,” he said.
There are more than 400 app 
users, Migliaccio said.  
Right now, the app is only be-
ing used in Florida and Georgia because UF worked with the Uni-
versity of Georgia to create it.
“We’re hoping someday it will 
be available for anyone in the 
United States,” she said.
audience the American Sign Language sign for “Ameri-
ca.” Everyone interlocked their fingers and moved them in a circle.
“Think about it,” he said. “We’re all interlocked to-
gether, no one’s left out, in a constant circle of life.”
UF history professor Steven Noll said without the 
ADA, small things like UF’s Disability Resource Center and Cypress Hall would not be possible.
“It’s an important part of our history and an impor-tant part of our struggle for equality,” Noll said. 
Harkin’s speech was personal for UF applied physiol-
ogy and kinesiology freshman Mikayla Ryder.
The 18-year-old said her life could have been a lot 
different if not for the ADA. She’s visually impaired, but she said UF’s campus is very accessible for her.
Like Harkin, Bryan Boggiano’s family is positively af-
fected by the ADA. Both Boggiano, a UF anthropology sophomore, and his cousin were diagnosed with autism.
“I feel like people with disabilities are the largest 
group of underrepresented minorities,” the 19-year-old said.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
Christy Pina / Alligator 
T om Harkin speaks in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday. He spoke about the impacts of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, saying it “opened up the Court’s doors” to people with disabilities. 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
The Smart Irrigation Turf app, created by UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, generates irrigation schedules for homeown-ers after they input information about the property.
CAMPUS
UF IFAS developed app, 
helps conserve water
DISABILITY,  from pg1About 450 students attended itBy Gabrielle Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rob Damitz started his busi-
ness, aqUV, in graduate school.
Damitz, 27, first began con-
templating the idea of a modified 
water bottle that purifies water through UV light and filtration more than a year ago with two 
other graduate students.
Their goal is to use the water 
bottle to provide clean water to 
other countries.
“It would be really reassuring 
that other people can get behind what we’re trying to do... provid-ing clean water for all — for ev-eryone on the planet,” he said.
Today, he and his co-founders 
will be one step closer to that goal after they pitch their idea to a panel of experts in the Ev-ans Champions Club at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium at 5:30 p.m. as 
part of the inaugural Get Started Gainesville contest. The competi-tion, an event hosted by Cox Busi-
ness, will award $5,000 in cash 
and $5,000 in TV services for the business with the best pitch.
Five businesses, including 
aqUV, were chosen from 30 ap-plicants to present innovative 
technology to the panel, which 
consists mostly of Gainesville en-trepreneurs. The remaining four businesses include Zen Monitor-ing, a device that detects glucose 
from exhaled breath; Grammar-
Songs, an educational grammar program; AzPure, LLC, a sanitiz-ing plasma generator; and Livin-
gua, an app that connects travel-
ers to locals.
“I think it’s just a great rep-
resentation of startup mentality and (the) entrepreneurial mindset 
of Gainesville that we can have 
competitions like this,” Damitz said.
The event is open and free to 
the public after completion of on-line registration.  
Monte Danos, the director 
of field marketing for Cox Busi-ness in the Southeast region, 
said the event cost more than 
$50,000, not including the prize. This is the first event to be held in Gainesville, he said, and was 
a collaboration with Innovation 
Hub, UF and other local organi-zations.  
“Cox Business is truly proud to 
be a part of fostering the develop-ment of entrepreneurs in the mar-ket and truly helping them grow their businesses,” Danos said.
For Victor Borsche, the CEO 
of Livingua, the chance to show his product means just as much as the prize.
“We’re just looking forward 
to pitching our idea here, hearing what people have to say and just getting people excited about it,” he said.
Five businesses to pitch their ideas
“It gives you a way to apply 
water that will meet your 
plants’ needs. At the same 
time, it will help you not 
over-irrigate.”
Kati Migliaccio
lead designerIt’s for a competition
The Finalists
• aqUV - a modified water bottle that disinfects water through UV light 
and filtration
• AzPure, LLC - a plasma 
generator that sanitizes and disinfects indoor spaces
• GrammarSongs - an educational program 
designed to teach 
grammar
• Livingua - an app that connects visitors to local residents for translation services
• Zen Monitoring - a device that detects glucose from 
exhaled breathBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gate 16 of Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium functioned as an airplane run-
way on Tuesday as students and faculty folded and launched paper planes off the stadium ledge.
To raise money for the UF Cam-
paign for Charities, the paper-air-plane competition pitted the College of Journalism and Communications against the College of Health and Human Performance. Participants were asked to donate at least $5 to the campaign, which represents about 90 local charities.
“That’s what it’s all about,” said 
Dan Connaughton, HHP associate dean for faculty affairs.
The CJC has organized the event 
before in its atrium, but this is the first time the two departments col-
laborated on an airplane contest, said 
Christine Coombes, HHP director of communications. At the event, HHP raised $120, and CJC raised $50. Af-ter the event, HHP raised $920 at a pie-in-the-face event, which gave faculty members a chance to slam whipped-cream pies in each other’s faces, Coombes said.Former UF President’s wife, Chris 
Machen, along with Susan Crow-ley, UF’s assistant vice president for community relations, judged about 30 airplanes on their creativity, aes-thetics and performance.
Some attendees took a tradition-
al approach, folding loose-leaf or computer paper, while others used softballs and balloons to boost their chances of success.  
“The rules are there are no rules,” 
said Coombes, whose plane was a bendy straw and two paper rings. She helped organize Tuesday’s event. Coombes’ airplane won most 
creative design.
“I was surprised it even went for-
ward, so that was a win,” she said.
After a few planes were launched, 
Brad Fawver, a doctoral student in 
the HHP college, tossed his plane. As a child, he said he wanted to be a fighter pilot.
His plane swooped down before 
bumping into a wall. Then it caught a gust of wind and landed about 70 yards away — placing first.
The HHP college took first place 
in all three categories. For his ef-forts, Fawver won a two-night stay at WorldQuest Orlando Resort.
“Not bad for a Tuesday,” he said.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Mariana Franz, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, tosses her paper airplane out-
side Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Tuesday. The UF College of Journalism and Communications and the UF College of Health and Human Performance held a paper-airplane competition to raise money for the UF Campaign for Charities.
UF colleges host paper-airplane competition to raise moneyIT WAS A M18A1 CLAYMORE.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff deputies secured 
a live military mine Saturday evening after a 
Bronson man found it in the ground in Levy County.
About 5 p.m. Saturday, the man called the 
Levy County Sheriff’s Office after finding an M18A1 Claymore while clearing land, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Sgt. Bran-don Kutner said.
A M18A1 Claymore is a mine filled with 
shrapnel that fires in one direction, Kutner said. 
Kutner said the man called a friend with 
military experience to examine what he 
thought could be a fun relic.
“They thought it was actually kind of cool 
— maybe something that was inert that they 
could display at the VFW or the American Le-gion,” Kutner said.
It turns out the military ordnance – a tech-
nical term for supplies – was still active, but missing an electric blasting cap needed to ex-plode it.
Levy deputies requested members of the 
Sheriff’s Office Bomb Team, who secured the Claymore after about an hour, Kutner said.
He said the team might have used a robot 
to inspect the Claymore before approaching in protective suits.
“When it explodes, it’s designed to push that shrapnel and all that material inside the mine toward the enemy target,” Kutner said.
U.S. Navy Explosive Ordnance Disposal 
technicians are scheduled to pick up the Clay-more, which is apparently not unheard of in North Central Florida where military exercises might be conducted, Kutner said.
“I don’t want to say frequently, but it’s not 
uncommon for the military to come down and collect some sort of military ordnance that was found on land that’s being cleared for develop-ment,” he said.  Alachua County deputies secure a mine found in Levy County
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
After a suicide took place last week, UF’s 
U Matter, We Care visited student senators 
at Tuesday night’s Student Senate meeting.
The organization told senators they 
should inform students they represent that help is available. 
The group’s ambassadors discussed 
crisis-relief services available to students. Student Government also talked about the black student experience survey.
U Matter, We Care
Jason Feliciano and Hannah Lee, U Mat-
ter, We Care ambassadors, gave a presenta-
tion following a UF student suicide Wednes-day.
“In light of a recent event that happened, 
it is important to look out for every Gator,” Lee said.
Lee said it’s important for senators to be 
aware of the services U Matter, We Care of-
fers.“The students you guys represent might 
be contemplating suicide or hurting them-selves,” she said.
Students can refer those in crisis to U 
Matter, We Care anonymously, Feliciano 
said. If school and life become stressful, 
students can experience crisis.
“It can result in a breakdown and ulti-
mately end in tragedy,” he said.
Black Student Experience Survey
Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre 
and Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines gave presentations about the black student experience survey SG began pro-moting about a week ago.
Carre said senators need to promote the 
survey more. Some senators said his speech implied that he felt they didn’t care, which Carre apologized for.
Sen. Katelynd Todd (Independent, 
Health and Human Performance) said she shared the survey and only got four “likes” on Facebook.
“I’m feeling the same pain,” she said. U Matter, We Care talks to 
SG about mental healthIT’S A TRANSPORTATION FAIR 
HOSTED BY THE UF OFFICE OF 
SUSTAINABILITY.
By Courtney Grigsby
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students who bike, skate and run to 
campus will be able to share how they’ve 
helped the environment today on the Reitz 
Union Lawn.
UF’s Office of Sustainability will hold 
its annual Sustainable Transportation Fair, 
part of the  “What Moves You?” campaign, 
from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. This year, the fair 
will feature three new electric cars, and students can discuss the different earth-friendly ways they get to campus, such as skating and biking, said Allison Vitt, out-
reach and communications coordinator 
for UF’s Office of Sustainability. The event is free to the public.
Vitt said students can learn about elec-
tric cars. The Nissan Leaf, Ford Fusion and Global Electric Motorcars (GEM) vehicles will be at the event along with their driv-ers for the driver or owner open forum.
UF materials science and engineering 
junior Kateryna Gorbanovska said she has been looking forward to the fair since her friend told her about it.
The 20-year-old said she’s excited 
about the University Police Patrol Divi-
sion’s bicycle table because she’s been 
interested in biking to campus to be more sustainable.  
“If one person decides to develop more 
sustainable habits, their friends will be 
more likely to,” she said.  “It will go from 
an individual to a collective level, and could lead to a change of culture about the environment, with people more will-
ing to help out.”
For the first time, the Office of Sus-
tainability will take a large group pic-
ture, where attendees are encouraged to bring their own sustainable transportation 
method, like skateboards or bikes.  
“This is to show the solidarity of people 
that are proponents of sustainable trans-
portation, people that are using it, people that believe in it,” Vitt said.Sustainable travel fair at Reitz
“This is to show the solidarity 
of people that are proponents of 
sustainable transportation, people that 
are using it, people that believe in it.”
Allison Vitt
outreach and communications coordinatorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
You may be preparing for the wrong job market 
Every college student is told to walk the 
line between chasing a passion they truly love and being realistic in the like-
lihood of success in those aspirations. 
The paradox is that many of the most 
popular ﬁ  elds to pursue are where people are predicted to not ﬁ  nd success. Forbes ranked 
degrees in the arts and humanities as the worst 
to receive. On the other hand, jobs in statis-tics and computers, ﬁ  elds that deﬁ  nitely have acquired tastes, show the best projections in the coming decades in terms of employment and overall job satisfac-
tion.
The problem is Forbes references data based off pre-
dictions from today’s economy. When looking at trends 
that lead us to the future, predicting them from today is 
incoherent when there may be a dramatic paradigm shift 
in American jobs. As the more liberal monthly The Atlan-tic explained in its July edition, the time when technology dramatically shifts the job market may be upon us.
Those content statisticians release data that should 
scare just about everyone. According to The Heritage Foundation, about 20 percent of manufacturing jobs have disappeared since 2000 alone. The most common jobs to-day in retail — making up 10 percent of the labor market 
— are predicted not to exist due to technological develop-
ment by 2030. 
These sectors may be irrelevant to a college graduate 
who saw that part-time job as only temporary, but the fu-ture looks bleak for even the most educated. By the next 
30 years, many economists predict software and comput-
ers will develop to a level where surgery performed by robots will be more commonplace than using actual sur-geons. Today’s health care has already shifted to where 
walk-in clinics, such as the ones found at CVS Pharmacy, 
compete with private-practice physicians — and win.You know no one is safe when the doctors 
aren’t. In fact, no job ﬁ  eld looks to be safe. While the fastest growing job market may 
be in STEM ﬁ  elds, the rise of technology has 
minimized the rate of job growth in terms of numbers. Google, worth more than $370 bil-lion, only has around 55,000 employees. Stu-
dents may want to look to professors to guide 
them, but even their jobs aren’t secure any-more. As The Washington Post pointed out, 
colleges have begun to hire more part-time adjuncts to replace tenured professors. With adjuncts barely making 
minimum wage, professors can’t compete and will soon 
have to enter the same market as the recent college gradu-ates they once taught.
You can either believe the job market will look exactly 
the same 10 years from now or believe in the data point-ing to a dramatic shift in the American economy. The fact of the matter is no one knows for sure what the future 
holds. What we can be certain of is, like the past two 
centuries, the brightest and most creative are the ones that will reap success. 
But because one can’t major in inventing and leave 
school with a degree in creativity, it will be minds that triumph over degrees. So why not pursue that art degree? Who knows, with self-employing websites like Etsy, Inc. becoming more popular, it could be you making the big bucks while the doctors are the ones living off bread and 
water.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineering freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Suicide and the 
stigmatization of 
struggle
Last Wednesday, a freshman residing in North Hall de-
cided to take his own life. As of writing, this is the only information that has been released publicly.
Although no one in the Alligator knew this indi-
vidual, we are saddened by their passing, as some of 
us have been “there.” For those of you fortunate enough to have never been “there,” it is the place where all seems lost and the challenges of daily life become insurmountable. When you’re “there,” even simple tasks like completing your assignments or getting out of bed become frightening prospects.
Being “there” sucks; when you’re “there,” it becomes im-
possible to conceive a life that isn’t beset by disappointment and failure. Even with the help of supportive family and 
friends it can be difﬁ  cult, if not outright impossible, to see 
life through any lens but one of despair.
The fact that mental health has become a larger part of the 
national conversation in recent years has been a tremendous development, but realistically, it isn’t enough. As positive as initiatives like sex columnist Dan Savage’s “It Gets Better Project” are, they operate primarily in platitudes rather than the everyday realities of depression and suicidal ideation.
Here’s the truth: Life IS a struggle. Beyond the conven-
tional deﬁ  nitions of what qualiﬁ  es as a “struggle,” — taxing schoolwork, improving one’s habits or body — even in the mundane and inane motions of everyday life, it can be hard as hell to see a “point” to it all.
The thing is, there is a profound beauty in struggle. Strug-
gle not only tests and shapes our character, but it makes all the wonderful things in life — those 3 a.m. heart-to-hearts, the personal breakthroughs and the private joys — that much more fulﬁ  lling. When all you’ve known is happiness 
and accomplishment, a personal failure can seem like the 
end of the road. But for those who’ve grappled with depres-sion and come out the other side OK, they know better than to let their failures deﬁ  ne them.
It takes some people decades to make this realization —  
many never do. We at the Alligator understand no amount of sermonizing or preaching alone can change one’s per-spective on life, ESPECIALLY if they’re a bull-headed college student. But for those of you who are “there” or struggling, 
not only are you far from alone, but also you’re not doing 
“it” — “it” of course being this grand thing we call life — wrong. As a matter of fact, you may prove to be the stron-gest person of all.
It is no secret that the mental health care provided by UF 
leaves much to be desired — that’s another editorial for an-other time. In the meantime, those who need a helping hand right now have several tools at their disposal, including the services offered by U Matter, We Care and the Counseling 
and Wellness Center. Both offer email, phone and physical 
services to those who need it.
We as a society need to recontextualize and rethink the 
way we approach struggle. Yes, it sucks, it’s painful and, if we were being honest with ourselves, we could do without it. But rather than stigmatizing and denying the very real struggles we all go through, which in turn pushes people further and further inward, the time has come for us to wear our inner battles on our sleeves.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
“You know no one is safe when 
the doctors aren’t.”WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
It recently emerged that Arab grafﬁ  ti artists 
who had been hired to decorate the set of the Showtime program “Homeland” successfully 
snuck in subversive messages. These includ-
ed phrases such as “Homeland is racist” and 
“#BlackLivesMatter.” For those of you who pay attention to the world around them, this should 
come as no surprise.
As the artists themselves said (as quoted by The 
Washington Post), “‘We knew there wasn’t much 
research and energy into accurately depicting’ the region.”
The show has garnered harsh criticism for its factual inac-
curacies and its depiction of both the Arab world and Islamic culture as a monolithic entity of entropic violence and sav-agery. As Laura Durkay wrote concisely, “'Homeland' care-
lessly trafﬁ  cs in absurd and damaging stereotypes.”
I used to watch the show and have seen enough episodes 
to appreciate the aesthetic as an invocation of Orientalism, 
which was deﬁ  ned by Edward Said as “a political vision of reality whose structure promoted the difference between the 
familiar (Europe, West, “us”) and the strange (the Orient, 
the East, “them”).”
It is important to realize the role of “Homeland” as yet 
another facet of our culture of prejudice and misrepresenta-
tion. It is also important to recognize the presence of these 
entities throughout our history.
The tropes on display in “Homeland” are nothing new, as 
they easily recall Joseph Conrad’s “Heart of Darkness,” in which the natives of the Congo are described as “shadows 
of disease and starvation, lying confusedly in the greenish 
gloom.” 
Both the prose of the novel and the cinematography of the 
show are quite reﬁ  ned. It's aim is nonetheless just as obfus-
catory and propagandistic.
In the present, our media is riddled with phrases that 
identify subjects such as “Arab tyrants,” “Islamofascists,” 
“the Arabs,” and just last week, Hillary Clinton’s shortsight-ed invocation of her enemy, “the Iranians.” 
All of these tokens fuel the notion of one monolithic group 
of people, who, from birth, are inculcated to “hate us.” As Said indicated, in the eyes of the West, the East is fundamen-tally “other” and as such, inferior.
Granted, the Arab world and the Islamic world are two largely separate entities that exhibit immense de-mographic, political, and linguistic diversity. But this is never revealed by corporate media or its en-
tertaining dramatizations such as “Homeland” or 
“The Hurt Locker.” 
I have lived in the Middle East and can vouch 
that what we see on TV bears little to no resem-
blance to the region. The chaotic “reality” of the 
East, into which Americans have been inculcated by various media, simply does not exist to the de-gree perpetuated by our news and ﬁ  ctional narra-
tives.
This does not matter much, so long as American viewers 
— and voters — can be convinced the Middle East is devoid of culture and humanity. 
Just look to the beginning of the insurgency in Iraq, when 
Americans looked on excitedly as Iraq was pillaged and de-stroyed, heralding our military presence as beacons of de-mocracy and freedom.
None of this would have been possible without the care-
ful and calculated propaganda machines that have systemati-
cally manipulated the masses and thwarted voices that spoke 
out against the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
As we remember, in the buildup to the so-called “War 
on Terror,” dishonesty and racism became our cultural cur-
rency, which is still presently observable in repeated and 
perpetuated lies about Iran.
According to “Homeland,” which was spun out of the Is-
raeli show “Prisoners of War,” al-Qaeda was a creation of Iran, which is a bold-faced lie that serves the war hawks who 
are well-poised to beneﬁ  t from an attack on Iran.
“Homeland” is emblematic of the West’s ignorance to-
ward the Middle East; rather than write off the exploitation 
of the Middle East for what it has been, it has become a 
dramatized, sensationalized form of both entertainment and 
state-serving propaganda.
Given TV’s immense inﬂ  uence on our society, it should 
come as no surprise that when the next rhetorical attack is launched against Middle Eastern characters, Americans will 
sit at their screens and enjoy watching the violence unfold. 
It is, after all, just a distraction.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays. “Homeland” is a poor representation of the Middle EastColumn
Rainbow Rowell, a young adult novelist, has 
managed to do something original enough to make a stir in the literary world.
She’s written a fanﬁ  ction of a fanﬁ  ction.For those who don’t know, a fanﬁ  ction is 
when someone takes the world or characters of a pub-lished book, TV show, movie or comic, and creates a new story based on these pre-existing works.
For years, fanﬁ  ction managed to ﬂ  y peaceably un-
der the radar. It was exchanged through newsletter chains and then email listservs. It was shared through entries in LiveJournal or Wattpad, and gossiped over in relative anonymity on fanﬁ  ction.net. People knew about it if they knew about it and would rarely stumble 
over it unintentionally unless combing through the re-
cesses of the Internet.
Nowadays, because (of course) of the rise of tech-
nology, fandom communities are gaining a louder, more present and persuasive voice, and because of certain pop culture sensations that wouldn’t exist with-out fanﬁ  ction — *cough* Fifty Shades of Grey *cough* — the medium has expanded beyond its relatively ob-scure roots.
Personally, I love it. Do you hate the fact that Harry 
Potter and Ginny Weasley got married? Perhaps they don’t have to. Need more “Orange is the New Black” to tide you over until the next season? There is plenty more drama out there. Itching to dig your teeth into the details of “Gossip Girl”? Curious about the backstory of Legolas from "Lord of the Rings"? Jonesing for some softcore literary porn? Look no further than fanﬁ  ction, my friend.
Whatever your opinions are on the genre, whether 
you think it’s an insult to an author’s original work, a respectful homage to the inﬂ  uence of a writer or simply an expression of playful creativity, fanﬁ  ction is here to stay and it’s growing fast.
Rainbow Rowell’s recently released novel, “Carry 
On,” is special because of its very purpose as a reimag-ined work of fanﬁ  ction.
In “Carry On,” Rowell writes about characters 
from the ﬁ  ctional literary series in one of her previous books, “Fangirl.” In “Fangirl” (which 10/10 would rec-ommend), the imagined literary series is a careful but obvious rip-off of the magical world of Harry Potter.
In “Carry On,” Rowell is essentially writing a fan-
ﬁ  ction of her own work, mixed with something super similar to a fanﬁ  ction of Harry Potter. In the immortal words of Keanu Reeves, whoa.
This is an achievement for the literary world be-
cause it manages to use a template from someone else to create something truly original and exciting. Better yet, instead of sweeping that template under the rug, as many other authors have done, “Carry On” admits where the seeds of its creation came from.
Rowell consciously knows aspects of her world are 
similar to the world of Hogwarts, but her novel is a testament to just how good fanﬁ  ction can really be. And sometimes, it’s good enough to stand on its own.
Authors have used other authors’ ideas or built off 
of other people’s worlds for decades. They are skilled in taking a concept and twisting it, turning it upside down or looking at it from a different angle to ﬁ  t a new creative vision.
A new version of Sherlock Holmes? That’s fanﬁ  c-
tion. A remake of a popular superhero movie? Pretty much fanﬁ  ction.
Rainbow Rowell’s “Carry On” is a great novel, and 
it’s great fanﬁ  ction. Hopefully, it will help more people realize these two things do not have to be mutually exclusive.
Sally Greider is an English and public relations 
major. Her columns appear on Wednesdays.Rainbow Rowell and 
the rise of fanﬁ  ctionColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
Scents, spices and swirls 
of color ﬂ  ooded the atmo-sphere in the Florida Gym 
where Gators chomped 
on Asian foods during 
Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s an-nual Food Festival on Tuesday.
After picking up plates of rice, 
students chose foods from 10 or-ganizations, each representing a different Asian country, with dishes ranging from pad thai to 
stir-fried egg noodles.
Students participated in tradi-
tional games and activities, and 
25 of about 750 attending were 
included in a food-eating contest.
Event director Derek Vinluan, 
21, said he hoped students would 
keep an open mind about Asian culture after the event.
“When you think of Asian, you 
think of the big ones like Chinese, Korean and Japanese,” he said. “There’s a lot of variety in the 
Asian community… keep an open 
mind and don’t be afraid to learn about someone else’s culture.”
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Students stuff their faces with lo mein during the eating competition at Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s Food Festival on Tuesday in the Florida Gym. Contestants ate 
one-handed with chopsticks in five rounds of five people each, the winners of  which competed in a final eat-off.
Franky Liang (right), a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore, chews his way to victory in the ﬁ  rst preliminary round of the food-eating competition at AKM’s Food Festival. Liang said that during the race he was waiting for someone else to ﬁ  nish so he could stop.  
A bite of Asian cultureWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Inae Lee, a 19-year-old UF international studies sophomore, tosses 
plastic pieces in a game of Gonggi, similar to jacks, at the Korean Undergraduate Student Association’s activity table. “I grew up playing it, ” Lee said. “I’m not that good, though, so it’s kind of sad. ”LEFT:
Carolina Sepulveda, a 17-year-old UF biology freshman, chows down on beef with mung bean vermicelli from the Chinese American Student Association’s food table. With about 750 stu-dents attending AKM’s Food Festival, Sepulveda said they ran out of forks and she had to use a spoon instead.
BELOW:
Students visiting the Vietnamese Student Association’s table played Cau Ca, a game in which competi-tors ﬁ  sh out objects and race to collect more than the other play-ers. The 10 organizations at the Festival brought food and a tradi-tional game from their country. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLC
Real Estate Services
“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”
Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-23-15-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real EstateWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend 
knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. 
Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
Girls Place is Your First Place to Make a Difference! Now hiring CDL drivers, af-ter school counselors and tutors. Visit GirlsPlace.net for details. @girlsplaceinc    10-21-15-5-14
Student Wanted For Occasional Yard Work. $10/Hr
Call 373-0489    10-21-15-1-14
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal city of Australia?
2. MOVIES: Who won the 1961 
Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in 
“West Side Story”?
3. MUSIC: Who is honored in the 
song “Candle in the Wind” by Elton John?
4. HISTORY: Who called Dec. 7, 
1941, “a date which will live in infa-my”?
5. NATURAL WORLD: What are 
the seeds of castor bean plants used to produce?
6. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Barry Lyndon”?
7. ENTERTAINERS: What famous 
actor who once played James Bond also was a contestant in the 1950 Mr. Universe contest? 
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: In 
“The Twelve Days of Christmas” car -
ol, what present was sent on the 11th day?
9. TELEVISION: When did the 
award-winning kids’ show “Sesame Street” go on the air?
10. DISCOVERIES: Who is credited 
with discovering quarks?
Answers
1. Canberra2. Rita Moreno
3. Marilyn Monroe
4. Franklin Roosevelt, asking for a 
declaration of war after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii
5. Ricin, a toxic poison6. William Thackeray7. Sean Connery8. 11 pipers piping9. 196910. Murray Gell-Mann
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 19, 2015 King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Punch kin
4 Refuse
9 Debussy’s sea
12 __ Scotia
14 Makes
arrangements for
15 Chopper
16 Three-time Rock
and Roll Hall of
Fame inductee
18 Sleep phase
initials
19 1990s Polish
president
20 Ocean State sch.21 California’s __
Valley
22 Master thespian’s
skill
25 Pretentious sort
27 Used Grecian
Formula on
28 Uses for a fee29 Civil War
nickname
30 Artist’s shade
31 “La Bamba” actor
Morales
33 Burroughs’ feral
child
35 Welcomes to
one’s home
39 Actress Sommer41 Sets for binge
watchers
42 Rapid-fire
weapon
43 Fireplace piece
46 Maker of Air
Zoom sneakers
48 Eyewear, in ads
49 Brew produced
withoutpesticides
52 Regatta
implements
53 Shout of support54 Burglars’ concerns57 Former AT&T
rival
58 “One Thousand
and One Nights”
transport
60 See 62-Across
61 Endless,
poetically
62 With 60-Across,
big name in
desserts
63 Harris and Asner64 Gave the wrong
idea
65 Duplicates, briefly
... and a hint to
16-, 22-, 49- and58-AcrossDOWN
1 Once again
2 Latina toon
explorer
3 Superhero’s
nemesis
4 Long Island Iced
__: cocktail
5 Public stature6 Not sidesaddle7 Hard to arouse
8 Sweetie pie
9 Ohio county or its
seat
10 Not obliged to
pay
11 Neglectful
13 Harsh
14 Focus of an
annual 26-Downcontest
17 Jefferson Davis
was its only pres.
21 Mideast chieftain
23 Reply to Bligh
24 Ill-mannered
25 Convened26 Hoops gp.30 Drummer Alex
Van __
32 Avoid
embarrassment
34 Epsilon followers36 Large political
spending org.
37 Ending with civil
or social38 Put the kibosh on40 Behind bars41 Ring result, briefly43 Help in many a
search
44 Like many violent
films
45 Goes with the
flow
47 Asian MLB
outfielder with a
record 10
consecutive 200-
hit seasons48 Craftsman
retailer
50 Really boiling51 Jeb Bush’s st.
55 Cougar maker,
for short
56 Dots on a
subway map:
Abbr.
58 Voice legend
Blanc
59 Channel 
founded byTurner
By John Lieb
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/21/1510/21/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 21, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
A North Florida sign-language teacher and/
or lead teacher aide is presently on duty in Alachua County. Call my service, obtain ref-
erences, etc. 352-375-8606     10-26-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida women's basketball 
guard Dyandria Anderson is poised to break out heading into her sophomore season. Read the story on pg. 14. By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis 
Devin Robinson knew that he 
had room to grow following his 
freshman season.
The 6-foot-8 forward from 
Chesterfield, Virginia, was thrust into a regular role for the Gators last year, appearing in all 33 
games and starting in seventeen. 
He received valuable playing 
experience, but his production, 
like most of his teammates last season, was mediocre at best.
Despite being a member of the 
2015 Southeastern Conference All-Freshman team, Robinson av-eraged just 6.4 points and 2.8 re-
bounds per game last year while 
making 40.2 percent of his shots.
But after ending his freshman 
season on a high note — posting six double-digit scoring efforts 
in the final 10 games of the sea-
son — Robinson said he believes he can develop into more of an 
all-around threat, a sentiment 
shared by coach Mike White. 
“(Robinson) should give you 
a huge weapon on the offensive 
glass, and that’s a challenge with 
Devin,” White said. 
“We have to get him to be more of a force on the offensive glass and use his length defen-sively. He’s really shooting the ball well now.”White added that Robinson 
has been playing small forward 
during the first weeks of practice 
not only because of the team’s depth in the frontcourt, but also because of Robinson’s ability to stretch the floor and shoot from 
range.
The sophomore bulked up a 
bit in the offseason.
He's gained 17 pounds over 
the last year, now weighing 195 after being listed at 178 as a 
freshman. 
Robinson said he thinks the 
added weight will play a big role 
in his ability to hang tough in the 
paint.
“It’s going to impact it a lot. 
I’m going to be stronger. I’m not going to get pushed around 
as much as I used to last year,” 
Robinson said. 
“Just my overall game, getting 
to the basket, finishing through 
contact, everything I need to be a 
better player.”
And, just as White pointed 
out, Robinson’s main focus of im-provement has been offensive re-
bounding, another area in which 
the added weight should help.
“That’s my No. 1. (goal). I re-
member last year, I came in, all 
I felt like I had to do was score, 
score, score, but I understand as my year went on that you could affect the game in other ways,” Robinson said.  
“They really put an emphasis 
on ‘you’re 6-9, how many re-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF soccer ranked in the top-10
The Florida soccer team has entered the top-10 in the NSCAA poll as the 
Gators are ranked eighth. UF was previously ranked 13th and the team has won three games in a row. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF forward Devin Robinson drives to the basket during Florida's 75-50 win against T exas Southern on 
Dec. 12 in the O'Connell Center. Robinson played in all 33 games last season and started seventeen. 
UF counting on sophomore forward to improve this year
TORRES TELLS IT
Florida might’ve lost 
against LSU on Saturday, but one thing  became 
clear after the defeat. 
Antonio Callaway is 
the best playmaker in a Flori-
da uniform since Percy Harvin 
and is on his way to becoming 
the best true freshman wide-out in program history.
Harvin was a dynamic playmaker for 
the Gators from 2006-08. His pure speed 
made him a threat every time he touched 
the ball because of his explosiveness and home run ability to score. 
Callaway has already proven he has 
those same abilities in his young college career. While Harvin was used as a run-ning back at times in former UF coach Urban Meyer’s offense, Callaway was re-cruited to be a playmaking wide receiver. But the Miami native brings a unique element to the Gators that Harvin did not: the ability 
to return punts.
Harvin didn’t start return-
ing punts until he entered the 
National Football League. Cal-
laway, however, has thrived 
since being inserted into the role in Florida’s second game 
against East Carolina, when Vernon Har-greaves III missed the game because of a 
leg injury.
The 5-foot-11 wide receiver is 15th in 
the country in punt returns, averaging 14.8 
yards on 12 returns.
He knifes through the opposition, much 
like coach Jim McElwain slashes off the crust of Callaway's peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Callaway UF's best playmaker
FLORIDA HAD THE SECOND 
LOWEST SCORE OF ANY TEAM 
IN THE FINAL ROUND. 
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
After a dismal opening round Sunday put 
the Gators in 12th place at the Tavistock Col-legiate, coach JC Deacon could’ve chalked 
the tournament up as a loss.
Which made it that much more impressive 
when No. 18 Florida came storming back to 
ﬁ  nish tied for ﬁ  fth place at Isleworth Coun-
try Club in Windermere, Florida, after two 
superb team performances on Monday and Tuesday. 
UF had the lowest Round 2 score of any 
team Monday to push itself up four spots into eighth.
And on Tuesday, UF logged the second-
lowest Round 3 score to cap off another im-probable comeback. 
Junior Ryan Orr had the best individual 
ﬁ  nish for the Gators, tying for 13th at 3-over despite starting off with a 4-over 76 in his opening round. 
Sophomore Alejandro Tosti tied for 16th 
at 4-over for the tournament, highlighted by a 2-under 70 on Monday. 
Freshman Jorge Garcia came into Tuesday 
tied for 36th, but after logging a 1-under 71 — 
UF’s lowest round of the day — he launched 
himself into a tie for 20th. 
Deacon credited Garcia for ﬁ  nishing low 
despite a hectic round.
“He kind of had an up-and-down round 
day today, a lot of bogeys and stuff like that, Florida men's golf ties for 
ﬁ  fth place after poor startSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIIRobinson averaged 6.4 points as fresh man14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF diver Khalia Warner competes on the three-meter dive during 
Florida’s win against Arkansas on Sept. 27, 2014 in the O’Connell Center.
DYANDRIA ANDERSON 
AVERAGED 2.9 POINTS PER 
GAME LAST SEASON. 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
The saying goes that confidence is key, 
and for UF sophomore guard Dyandria An-
derson, that saying holds true.
At seemingly every press conference so 
far this preseason, women’s basketball coach 
Amanda Butler has gushed over Anderson’s 
progress, which according to Butler, harkens back to Anderson spending the entire sum-mer in Gainesville training. 
And for Anderson, the biggest takeaway 
from her Summer of training was a new-found confidence. 
“The biggest change definitely has to be 
my confidence as a player on and off the 
court,” Anderson said after Women’s Basket-
ball Media Day on Oct. 2. 
“I feel like I’m trying to take up that lead-
ership role a little bit more and to hold my teammates more accountable and just be more outspoken.” 
Now, with practice having gotten un-
derway more than two weeks ago, her confidence has carried over in the form of 
newfound aggression and improved commu-
nication.
“I’ve been attacking a lot more, just more 
aggressive and more confidently in knowing that I’m gonna make this shot, I’m gonna fin-ish this layup, I’m gonna get this and-one,” Anderson said.“I think that I’ve grown a lot. (I’m) talking 
a lot more, talking way more than I thought I ever would in my sophomore year.”
While confidence is undoubtedly impor-
tant, there’s a lot more to Anderson’s im-provement. 
Butler said part of it comes from her being 
a grind-it-out type of player who has earned the respect of her teammates and coaches alike. 
“Dee is the player on our team that I think 
has that really high like-ability factor,” But-ler said. “Everyone wants to see her do well because they know that she sacrifices for the team.
“She’s kinda that person that we know al-
ways does whatever we need and is always trying to do the right thing. … So I’ve just been really proud of her.”
While an athlete’s second year is often 
associated with the dreaded “sophomore slump,” Anderson looks poised to pick up where she left off and then some. 
Aside from the Viera native’s emergence, 
Butler also feels that the team’s offense has 
really taken off in recent practices, specifi-
cally in regard to spreading the ball around.
“I really like what our team looks like on 
offense. I think we’ve got a great deal of bal-ance. … I think there are a lot of candidates to give us double-figure scoring,” she said.
“The way that we play in transition and 
then also in the half court, I think that’s re-ally going to be exciting for us to see what we 
can do on that end of the floor.”
Butler added that lately, with start of the 
season still a ways away, the team has tried 
to concentrate on staying focused. 
“We have an emphasis of the day and our 
last practice on Friday the emphasis was fo-cus and that’s because we’re putting in new things,” Butler said. 
“And so our level of focus is something 
that has got to continue to grow — not that it’s been poor.”
With less than a month left until the 
Gators open the 2015-16 season at Temple on Nov. 13, Butler knows that this point in the preseason is tricky because practice starts to become redundant. 
However, with each passing day, that em-
phasis holds more weight.
“It’s that time of our preseason where 
you’re far removed from the beginning where the excitement of starting practice is kinda starting to diminish and our first game is still a little ways on ahead of us,” Butler said. UF women’s basketball sophomore poised for breakout year
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@LStaff27
The Florida men’s and wom-
en’s swimming and diving teams 
finished up their second consecu-
tive road dual-meet on Saturday 
in Austin, Texas, where the teams took on the defending national champions Texas and Big-10 op-
ponent, Indiana. 
Over the course of the two-
day competition, the No. 1 men’s 
squad split a win and a loss,  dropping a 162-100 set to Texas 
before defeating Indiana 140-122. 
The 13th-ranked women’s 
team lost both sets, first to Tex-as, 155-105, and then to Indiana, 
142-120.
“I thought we were mentally 
tough, there was no quit in the 
team,” Martin Wilby, one of the 
women’s team coaches, said. 
“We started off both meets 
slow, and we were amazed to fight our way back into the dual-
meets. 
“Just because of, not an ex-
cuse, but because of injuries and 
sickness over a two day meet. It 
was hard for us to juggle the line-
up of people who could swim dif-ferent events, and still have depth in the lineup.”Wilby commended seniors 
Ashlee Linn and Kahlia Warner, 
along with junior Taylor Katz, for 
their solid performances over the weekend. 
Warner, a native of Queen-
stown, Australia, posted NCAA Diving Standard scores for her performances in the one and three meter boards, earning respective scores of 293.25 and 324.10. 
She also took first place off the 
platform on Saturday during the exhibition portion of the competi-
tion. 
As a result of her performance, 
Warner was named the South-
eastern Conference Diver of the Week, her first distinction of the 
2015-16 campaign and the fourth 
of her career.  
“I’m real happy for Kahlia, this 
was the second weekend in a row where she dove an outstanding 
meet,” diving coach Dale Schultz 
said. 
“She competed well and bat-
tled throughout the weekend. She 
trains hard in practice and it’s 
paying off during the meets. It’s good to see her compete well and leave it all out there during her final year.”
On the men’s side, associate 
coach Anthony Nesty was im-pressed with the performances of seniors Arthur Frayler, Pawel Werner and Corey Main, who were fast throughout the entire meet.
All-American sophomore Cae-
leb Dressel had a huge showing as well, finishing first in the 50 free with a time of 19.36 seconds. 
He was also the runner-up in 
the 100 free, posting a 43.70-sec-ond performance. 
“Caeleb Dressel had a fantas-
tic meet,” said Nesty. “He is ob-
viously one of our best athletes 
here at UF. He beat the national champion in the 100-fly.”
The Gators return home for the 
first time since the All-Florida In-
vitational for an Oct. 30th match-
up against Southeastern Confer-ence rival Georgia. 
Florida’s men’s team lost to 
the Bulldogs 174.5-122.5 in Ath-ens. While the women lost 176-119. UF learning from last week’s meetsJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF guard Dyandria Anderson looks to pass during Florida’s 59-54 win against 
Stetson on Dec. 14 in the O’Connell Center. 
Florida faces Georgia next
“I’m real happy for Kahlia, 
this was the second weekend 
in a row where she dove 
an outstanding meet. She 
competed well and battled 
throughout the weekend. She 
trains hard in practice and it’s 
paying off during the meets. 
It’s good to see her compete 
well and leave it all out there 
during her final year.”
Dale Schultz 
UF diving coachCallaway returned a punt 72 
yards for a touchdown against 
the Tigers to tie the game at 28-
28 in the third quarter. 
His return was a thing of 
beauty, and he etched his name 
in Florida’s history books by be-
coming the first true freshman to 
return a punt for a touchdown in Southeastern Conference play in the program’s history, and the first true freshman to return a 
punt in any game since Brandon 
James did so back in 2006. 
But Callaway was recruited to 
be a wideout, and he’s shining in 
that role. 
He’s made a couple of high-
light reel one-handed catches, 
coming in at number three on SportsCenter’s Top 10 after mak-
ing a one-handed juggling catch 
along the sidelines in Death Val-ley.
It’s the second time this year 
Callaway has turned heads with a one-handed snag, with the oth-er coming against Kentucky on Sept. 19. 
However, Callaway isn’t just 
limited to highlight reel catches as a receiver. 
He’s mature beyond his years 
as a route-runner, and he’s learn-ing how to create separation be-
tween himself and opposing de-
fensive backs.
Wide receivers coach Kerry 
Dixon II said Callaway has been 
receptive to the idea of coming in 
and putting in extra work. 
“He actually comes in on his 
own to watch film and learn tech-niques, how to run routes and 
you’re starting to see that start 
to show up,” Dixon said. “I’m really excited about him and his future.”
Callaway’s hard work is pay-
ing off.
Entering this season, UF’s pro-
gram had only one true freshman wide receiver with at least 100 
receiving yards in game. 
Reidel Anthony accomplished 
the feat twice in 1994 and Cal-
laway has already matched his mark with his 112-yard breakout performance against Tennessee — which earned him SEC Fresh-
man of the Week honors — and 
his 100-yard game against LSU. 
The Gators will have at least 
six more games this season — five regular season games and a 
bowl game — which means Cal-
laway will have ample time to become the first Florida wideout to log three 100-yard receiving 
games as a true freshman. 
And there’s no reason he 
shouldn’t.
McElwain has said on numer-
ous occasions that he’s glad No. 81 is a Gator. 
And he should be glad. Cal-
laway has been McElwain’s best 
recruit from the 2015 class and 
his potential is limitless.
Callaway is a game-changer. 
Simple as that. He's something UF’s offense 
hasn’t had in years. 
As Callaway continues to im-
prove, he’ll have a chance to go down as one of the great ones in Florida’s history.but his attitude is awesome,” Dea-con said in a release. 
“It’s everything we’re looking 
for in the guys. He hangs tough and made a couple of birdies coming in and really, really helped the team, so I’m happy for him. ”
No. 19 Arizona State’s Jon Rahm 
took the individual title at 6-under, while his teammate Max Rottluff came in second at 4-under. 
As a team, No. 1 Illinois won the 
tournament at 1-over and the Illini had three golfers finish in the top seven. 
The Sun Devils came in second at 
5-over, and California finished third after posting the fourth-worst score of the tournament, going 21-over in the third and final round. 
UF was just one stroke short of 
Southeastern Conference rival No. 17 Vanderbilt, who took fourth place at 17-over. 
The Gators’ strong final round 
placed them in a tie for fifth with No. 7 North Carolina at 18-over. The tie for fifth marks UF's second top-five finish during the Fall schedule this season. 
While an 18-over fifth place fin-
ish sounds sufficient, the way in which the Gators arrived at that total tells another story. 
UF went 15-over in the first 
round on Sunday and a combined 3-over in rounds two and three on Monday and Tuesday. 
Strange as it seems, that narra-
tive has become commonplace for the Gators.
In their previous tournament, the 
Jerry Pate National on Oct. 5, UF got off to a slow 7-over start before log-ging the competition’s best round two and round three scores to finish the tournament in second place. 
While Deacon will undoubt-
edly emphasize the importance of a 
strong start before the team’s final 
tournament of the Fall next week, he’s satisfied to see progress where he can get it.
“We played really well again to-
day, but a couple of shots slipped down the stretch that I think the guys would want to have back. 
Overall, we played really well and 
are moving in the right direction.”WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway scores the game-winning touchdown in Florida's 28-27 win 
against T ennessee on Sept. 26 in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
GOLF,  from pg13Gators have two top-five 
finishes this season
bounds did you average last year? Three rebounds. 
That’s not good enough.’ So they want me to go crash the boards. They want me to play defense."
White and the Gators are relying on Robinson 
to do just that — help the team in other ways than scoring. 
With redshirt senior Dorian Finney-Smith and 
redshirt sophomore John Egbunu beside him at the power forward and center positions, respec-tively, Florida’s formidable frontcourt could thrive this season.
Robinson also knows that the experience he gained while playing as a freshman last year will be of tremendous value heading into this season.
“I had to grow up at that time," Robinson said. 
"That’s when I really noticed what I can do."
And when the season opens 
on Nov. 13 against Navy, Rob-inson will be able to put his im-provement to the test.
“Just happy to get the op-
portunity and the call and it just 
gave me the confidence to go in 
coming into this year that I know what to do and I 
know what to expect," Robinson said. 
"I can get it done.”HOOPS,  from pg13Robinson is working on rebounding 
as the season-opener approachesCOLUMN,  from pg13
“W e played really well again 
today, but a couple of shots 
slipped down the stretch that I 
think the guys would want to 
have back. Overall, we played 
really well and are moving in 
the right direction."
JC Deacon
UF men's golf coach
Alligator File Photo
UF golfer Ryan Orr swings during Day 1 of the SunTrust 
Invitational on Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostic Golf Course. White
2015By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Florida baseball tasted success 
last season.
A 50-win season.
A Southeastern Conference 
Tournament title.
A trip to the College World Se-
ries.
But the Gators still feel the sting 
of coming up short once again, ﬁ  n-
ishing yet another season without a national title.And while the 2016 season 
is still about four months away, 
Florida is already working on how 
to improve on last year’s achieve-ments as it begins Fall scrimmages.
“It’s a dream come true,” start-
ing pitcher Logan Shore said of playing in the College World Series, “but we’re obviously hungry to get back at it again and hopefully come out on top.”
After a two-year hiatus, the 
Gators returned to the College World Series with the program’s ﬁ  rst national title almost in their grasp.
They carried a 10-game post-
season win streak into Omaha, Ne-braska, surging at the right time.
But eventual champion Virginia 
knew how to contain Florida, sin-
gle-handedly eliminating UF from 
the double-elimination portion of the bracket.
The ﬁ  nal dagger came on a 5-4 
loss on June 20, a back-and-forth 
game decided by a seventh-inning 
sac ﬂ  y by Virginia’s Kenny Towns.
“You’ve got to play right at 
the right time,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “I thought we were playing really well at the end of the 
year, so it was disappointing, but 
we haven’t focused on that. 
“We’ve been just trying to get 
better and hopefully we’ll put our-
selves in a position to get back 
there this year.”
And O’Sullivan said this year’s 
group has the talent to do just that.
Florida returns four starting 
pitchers — Shore, fellow juniors A.J. Puk and Dane Dunning, and sophomore Alex Faedo — who compiled a 31-13 record on the 
mound.
UF also returns six position 
starters, highlighted by sopho-
more catcher/designated hitter JJ Schwarz and junior outﬁ  elder Bud-
dy Reed.
Schwarz, a consensus All-Amer-
ican and the Louisville Slugger co-
Freshman of the Year last season, 
paced the Gators in slugging per-
centage (.629), RBIs (73) and home runs (18). 
Reed led Florida with 86 hits and 
had a team-high-tying ﬁ  ve triples.
But even with O’Sullivan having 
an experienced group returning, the talent is magniﬁ  ed by his 13-person recruiting class that Baseball Amer-
ica ranked No. 2 in the country.
O’Sullivan, entering his ninth 
season as UF’s head coach, said 
he could expect as many as three to four freshmen contributing on a 
regular basis just like last season.
“Obviously they’ve got to earn 
it,” O’Sullivan said, “but I feel com-
fortable and conﬁ  dent that a few 
of these freshmen will step in right 
away.”16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Logan Shore winds up to pitch during Florida’s 14-3 win against South Carolina on April 
10 at McKethan Stadium. 
BASEBALL
Gators building on successful 2015 season SCHEDULE HIGHLIGHTS2016
SEASON IN REVIEW
Record: 52-18, 19-11 SEC
 SEC T ournament Champion winners
 Went 5-0 in NCAA Regional and Super Regional 
 Eliminated from College World 
Series after 5-4 
loss to Virginia, one 
game away from 
championship series Feb. 19-21: 
 Season-opening series 
 vs. Florida Gulf Coast
 March 15: 
Home game 
 vs. Florida State
 March 18-20:  
SEC opening series 
 vs. Missouri
 May 24-29: 
 SEC T ournament in 
Hoover, Alabama
 June 3: 
NCAA T ournament begins
 June 18-29: 
College World Series 
in Omaha, Nebraska