We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 130 THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
THE RIDES WILL BE OFFERED 
WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 
NIGHTS.
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
UF Student Government has part-
nered with Uber to offer a student dis-
count for rides on and near campus.
Throughout April, students commut-
ing within a speciﬁ  c zone will receive 50 percent off their rides Wednesday through Satur-day from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. 
The promotion covers a large portion of the area 
surrounding campus, including Midtown.
To use the UF Safe Ride program, new and exist-
ing Uber members should visit the blog.uber.com/UFsaferides site for a promotional code. With that code, a separate “UF Safe Rides” option will appear on the app.
Students must request the ride from this option in 
order for the discount to be applied.
UF Student Body President Cory Yeffet said a nor-
mal Uber ride within the program’s boundaries costs an average of $5 to $7.
“I can understand students saying 
that’s a little pricey, and maybe ‘I’ll 
walk this time,’” Yeffet said.
Now, that fare will be split in half.
“It’s a how-can-you-not kind of 
thing,” Yeffet said. “The goal is student 
safety.”
SG’s current contract with the company ends in 
April, but Uber spokesman Bill Gibbons said they plan on maintaining the partnership.
“The basis of our platform is trying to increase 
the options that people have for safe, reliable and affordable transportation,” Gibbons said. 
Tight end preparing for sixth, ﬁ  nal 
year of college football
Jake McGee is expected to be a focal point in 
Florida’s offense next season, pg 14.
UF launches sexual assault survey today
It will address students’ thoughts, experiences and knowl-
edge or resources about sexual assault,  pg 5.
Southwest Rec parking restrictions lifted
The lot northwest of the gym is now open all day, pg 3.UF Theatre’s rendition of ‘Comedy of Errors’ to start Friday
Tickets are $13 for UF students, pg 7.
UFMain st
Main st6th St13th St
13th StUniversity Ave8th Ave34th St
Williston RdDepot
Archer Rd16th St4th St Ave Uber rides on, near campus at discounted rates
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Puppy Party
Jessica Basta, an 18-year-old UF political science freshman, kisses the top of the head of a 7-week-old unnamed chihuahua and dachshund mix puppy on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday afternoon. Students could pay $5 to spend 20 minutes with the puppies, with the proceeds beneﬁ  tting animal shelter Animal People. 
CAMPUS
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
UF Online is welcoming Evangeline 
Cummings as its new director, and she has the task of raising the program’s enroll-ment.
There were 900 students enrolled in the 
Spring 2015 term — 300 fewer than ini-tially predicted in a business plan drafted in 2013. 
Of those students, 91 percent are in-
state, said UF Online interim-director Andy McCollough.
McCollough said he expects the pro-
gram to grow despite current low numbers. He said the challenge is increasing out-of-state enrollment, and a marketing team is working to advertise the program to out-of-state and international students.
UF Online was created to provide Flor-
ida residents with affordable and conve-
nient access to higher education. Once UF Online was approved by legislation, it had about six months to launch before the Jan. 
1, 2014, deadline. 
Enrollment has slowly increased since Enrollment in 
UF Online low; expect growth 
SEE ONLINE,  PAGE 4CAMPUS
Alligator StaffSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 130
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  61°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Authors@UF:
P.K. Ramachandran Nair
P.K. Ramachandran Nair, dis-
tinguished professor in the 
School of Forest Resources and Conservation, IFAS, will talk about a book he edited, 
“Agroforestry — The Future 
of Global Land Use,” today at 4:30 p.m. in the Marston Science Library Conference Room 136. Professor Nair, 
the “father of modern agro-
forestry,” sees great promise in the integration of trees into agricultural systems as a strat-
egy to alleviate global climate 
change through carbon se-questration. Free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
Cafe Cultural — Chips and 
Salsa NightJoin the Institute of Hispanic-
Latino Cultures, “La Casita,” 
for its second Café Cultural of the semester. They will be hosting a Chips and Salsa Night from 6 to 8 p.m. today. 
There will be live music by Los 
Panas 352. Come join them for an evening of music, dancing and good vibes.
GatorNights
Join GatorNights and Inter-Residence Hall Association for a Carnival Hoedown on Friday 
from 8 p.m. until 1  a.m. Enjoy 
the IRHAOPOLOY Carnival on the North Lawn with free car-nival rides. In the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom, get your coun-
try on with live country music from Austin Moody, leather bracelets, do-it-yourself Mason jars and cowboy hats, square 
dancing lessons and free food 
and root beer floats. See “The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies” at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in 
the Reitz Union Auditorium. It 
all ends in a Cotton-Eyed-Joe dance party and a free nacho/taco bar at Midnight Munchies. It’s free with a Gator 1 Card.
Time Warp 80s Night: “The 
Princess Bride” at the Hippodrome Cinema
Join the Hippodrome Cinema 
on Saturday at 10 p.m. for a special presentation of “The Princess Bride.” Enjoy themed drink specials as patrons 
watch the fairytale rom-com of Princess Buttercup and 
Westley unfold. Admission is $12 and seating is limited. The Hippodrome Cinema is located 
inside the Hippodrome State 
Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete listing of films and additional showtimes, 
please visit thehipp.org.
Second annual Three-Minute 
Thesis competition
The Graduate School and the 
Graduate Student Advisory 
Council are excited to an-nounce the Second Annual UF Three-Minute Thesis Finals 
Competition, which will take 
place Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Ten UF finalists from across multiple disciplines explain 
their research in three min-
utes or fewer with one static PowerPoint slide. The judges will award a first- and second-
place prize, and attendees get 
to vote for their favorite in the People’s Choice Award. Go out and support graduate students. Light refreshments will be pro-
vided.
Edible Book Contest
The George A. Smathers Libraries’ annual Edible Book 
Contest will take place Tuesday from 11 a.m. to noon on the Library West colonnade. Prizes are awarded in five categories 
by a panel of judges and the 
public is invited to vote for the People’s Choice Award. Winners are announced at 
12:15 p.m. and entrants do not 
have to be present to win. Free cake is served to everyone. UF students, faculty and staff, along with the community, are 
invited to submit an entry. The 
only rules are that entries must be edible and somehow related to a book. For more informa-
tion see uflib.ufl.edu/ebc.
Curious about a degree from 
the College of Education?The College of Education will 
be hosting its annual Education Career Night Panel on April 8 in the Reitz Union Auditorium 
from 4 to 5 p.m. The first 25 at-
tendees will receive a tote bag or T-shirt. Doors open at 3:30 p.m. This event is open to all.  The event consists of a panel 
of four impressive and engag-
ing UF College of Education alumni who will talk about the distinctly different career paths they each have followed — quite successfully — after earning their education de-
grees.  This event offers a great 
opportunity to network with education professionals from around Florida. For more in-
formation, visit education.ufl.
edu/alumni/career-night.
Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a troupe of real, rescued house 
cats that purrform acrobatic 
feats of agility — they roll on balls, balance on beams, ride skateboards and more. The grand finale is the only 
all-cat band known to exist 
— Tuna and the Rock-cats.  Purrforming at the Hippodrome State Theatre April 16 through 
April 19. More information on 
the act can be found at circus-cats.com.
MTB Skills Clinic
Join the Gainesville Velo Vixens for the 3rd annual Mountain Bike Skills Clinic de-signed for women of all skill levels. Beginner or advanced – 
all riders will learn new skills 
and techniques to rock our lo-cal mountain bike trails. Mark your calendar for a daylong 
clinic on April 25 at the epic 
trails of Santos! Find us on Facebook for more info and registration.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Gainesville Throwbacks
April 3, 1969
UF began its second term for 
the new Florida Experimental Col-lege, which encourages students to create their own classes. There was no set curriculum for any course, and no instructor per se. The idea was ﬁ  rst proposed by graduate students inspired by the idea of graduate seminars. The ﬁ  rst term offered 10 classes, and the next term offered 34 classes. “We are working under the as-sumption that the present system is antiquated,” said the program’s spokesman.
April 5, 1978Gainesville awarded the Medal 
of Valor to a local policeman who was engulfed in ﬂ  ames in Octo-ber after warning motorists away from a cloud of gas covering Ar-cher Road. Ofﬁ  cer Alfred Taylor received minor facial burns after the cloud of gas he drove through exploded. A ﬁ  ve-man police com-mission evaluated Taylor’s actions and selected him to receive the Medal of Valor, which recognizes ofﬁ  cers who “in rendering police service, do so in the face of inordi-nate danger.”March 29, 1995A man was arrested early after 
Gainesville police caught him with a wheelbarrow full of food stolen from the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity house. A fraternity member said he saw the man leaving the house with the full wheelbarrow and a convection oven. The man report-edly brandished a large knife to discourage any other questions.March 31, 2000The popular, state-sponsored 
scholarship program Bright Fu-tures covered summer classes for the ﬁ  rst time. “[Students] seem to be pretty excited about having free money,” said Elaine Stuckman, UF associate director of ﬁ  nancial affairs. “We’re glad to be offering the additional aid.” Bright Futures is funded by the state lottery. 
— ALLIGATOR STAFF
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Gym rats no longer have to wait until parking gets 
lifted at 3:30 p.m. to work out.
Student Government and UF RecSports have part-
nered to lift parking restrictions all day at the Bledsoe 
Drive parking lot until the end of Spring semester. The 
parking lot is located northwest of Southwest Recre-
ation Center.
Andy Howard, 
RecSports assistant director of marketing and communications, wrote in an email that there will be a strictly 
enforced two-and-a-half-hour parking limit.
This pilot program will help SG and RecSports ﬁ  nd 
solutions to parking issues and make Southwest Rec more accessible to students, said UF Student Body President Cory Yeffet.
“After hearing from students for so long, we ﬁ  nally 
looked into it,” he said.
Yeffet said RecSports wants students to use the 
gym more, but the lack of parking was an issue.  
“Over time, we found that students are going to 
wait (until parking is lifted) to drive out there,” he said.
Suzette Pellegrino, 22, said she exercises at South-
west Rec almost every day. The UF biology senior said she would have to wait until parking was lifted in the afternoon, and by then it was difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd open machines. If she wanted to exercise in the morn-ing, she would have to wait to take a bus.  
“I think it was about time they did that,” she said. 
“I’m glad they lifted it.”  Restrictions on 
Southwest Rec parking lifted
Alligator File Photo
In this photo from April 2000, students celebrate the UF men’s basket-
ball team’s win against the University of North Carolina T arheels, a vic-tory that pushed the team to the National Championship. Police had to shut down West University Avenue from the Swamp Restaurant to Pur-ple Porpoise — a now-closed pub that was located at 1728 W. University Ave. — to allow students to celebrate.
CAMPUS4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
UF HILLEL IS EXPECTING A 
HIGH TURNOUT DESPITE 
FRIDAY START.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jewish students will have plenty 
of options for Passover meals and 
free seders this year through the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center and UF Hillel.
Passover is a Jewish holiday that 
commemorates the emancipation of 
the Israelites from slavery in ancient 
Egypt. This year, it will take place from sunset Friday to sunset on April 11.
During Passover, Jews refrain 
from eating “chametz,” which in-cludes wheat, barley, oats, spelt and rye. Some Jews also refrain from eat-ing “kitniyot,” which includes rice, 
corn, soy, millet, beans and peas.
Hillel will be hosting a Seder on 
Friday evening in addition to hold-
ing its weekly services.
Hillel is expecting a tremendous 
turnout even though many students 
may be going home, said Rabbi 
Adam Grossman, the CEO of UF Hillel. More than 150 people have signed up for the Seder, but many 
more are expected to attend.“It will be about $25,000 to do 
everything we’re trying to do this 
Passover season,” Grossman said.Chabad is also preparing for a 
higher Passover turnout and the price that comes with it.Chabad needs to raise $60,000 
for Passover, said Rabbi Berl Gold-man, a director of Chabad. So far, 
the center has raised about $40,000.
There are currently 500 RSVPs 
for the Seder on Friday, but there will probably be more, Goldman said. Last year about 700 people came, many of whom made last minute reservations.
Goldman is preparing 2,000 Pass-
over meals. For the ﬁ  rst Seder alone, 
Goldman has ordered 250 pounds of 
brisket, he said.
Chabad is also offering Passover 
meals for lunch and dinner through-
out the holiday for students and 
community members. Lunch is $8 
for students and $12 for the commu-nity. Dinner is $10 for students and $15 for the community.
“We want them to concentrate 
on their studies, and we have ev-erything ready for them,” Goldman said.
Goldman said he hopes all Jew-
ish people who are not going home 
will attend either a Chabad or Hillel 
Seder.
“All Jews are family, all Jews are 
equal — labels are for suits,” Gold-
man said. 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
David Portnow, a 22-year-old UF neuroscience senior, unloads boxes of supplies at the Jewish Center 
at 2021 NW Fifth Ave. in preparation for the Passover Seder. He said some food and drinks have to be specially ordered due to dietary restrictions for Passover.
 Gainesville Jewish community prepares for Passover seders
UF Online began last year. There were 
about 560 students in Spring, 475 during Summer and 838 in Fall. The program of-fers 15 bachelor’s degrees fully online, and the ﬁ  rst freshman class will graduate in 
2018.
In-state UF Online students pay about $111.92 per credit hour, which is no more 
than 75 percent of traditional residential students’ tuition. 
Out-of-state online students’ cost per 
credit hour depends on their degree’s na-tional average market price.
Traditional, in-state students paid 
$210.43 per credit hour during the 2014-2015 academic year, and traditional out-of-
state students paid $953 per credit hour.The university is eager to work with 
Cummings on the enrollment challenges.
Cummings starts July 1 with a salary of 
$185,000. She is currently a director with 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando wrote in 
an email that she showed skills desirable 
for the position. 
“The search committee and the provost 
were looking for someone with the ability to plan strategically and to manage a large and complex operation,” he said.
McCollough was part of the search for 
a new director, which began July 2014. He said he was impressed with Cummings’ ex-perience and management skills. 
“She seems to be a lady that has signiﬁ  -
cant experience in terms of managing and strategizing,” he said. “I think she will be 
a quick learner.”ONLINE,  from pg 1Raising enrollment a top priority for new director Cummings“All Jews are family, all Jews 
are equal — labels are for 
suits.”
Berl Goldman
rabbi, Chabad Jewish Center  THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
From left: Madeleine Hill, Alissa Kotranza and Kriti Vedhanayagam, all UF students, and UPD victim 
advocate Anne Carper march west on Inner Road in the T ake Back the Night March to end sexual vio-lence. “Yes means yes. No means no. Whatever we wear, wherever we go, ” they chanted.
By Stella Heekin
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can take part in a 
sexual assault survey starting today. 
UF is one of 27 research institu-
tions in the Association of Ameri-
can Universities participating in the Campus Climate Survey.
The survey will address stu-
dents’ thoughts, experiences and 
knowledge of resources about sex-
ual assault and related behaviors, said Jen Day Shaw, UF dean of stu-dents.
The confidential survey is spon-
sored by the AAU and a statistical survey research firm called Westat. It will compare how peer institu-tions, such as the University of Vir-
ginia, are handling issues related to 
sexual assault, Day Shaw said.
“It gives us a bigger, better way 
of making sure that we are getting the best information possible,” she said.Day Shaw said the survey will 
be sent out over email and will take about 20 minutes to fill out. It’s more narrowly focused than the Student Experience in the Research University (SERU) survey, she said. 
Students can choose to skip ques-
tions or not participate.
“With something like this you 
wanted to have every possible safe-guard and confidentiality,” Day Shaw said.
Awurama Acquah, a UF advertis-
ing junior and a U Matter, We Care ambassador, said she is glad UF is 
making an effort to understand the 
effectiveness of on-campus sexual assault resources, but she is unsure how helpful the responses will be.
“I think the Student Body as a 
whole do not know these services are available,” Acquah, 20, said.
She said she thinks more stu-
dents may pay more attention to 
this survey because the results will 
directly benefit them.UF launches survey on 
sexual assaults todayBy Hunter Williamson 
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Senate approved 
two overflow requests then reviewed and ap-
proved other bills Wednesday.
Senators approved a $4,515 
overflow request by Sen. Patriel 
Stapleton to purchase 70 cal-
culators for students to borrow from Student Life.
“We are going to be making an impact on 
so many students’ lives,” Senate Secretary Mat-thew Fernandez said.
Senators also approved a $313.92 request 
by Santa Fe Gamers. The club will spend the money on food for its upcoming event.
Senators reviewed and approved multiple 
bills by Senate President Jeremy Pierce and Student Body President Austin Browning.
Pierce’s bills included one that updated the 
Student Government’s constitution to abide by the 2014 Florida statutes; one that required At-Large and Academic Senators to attend 85 percent of Senate meetings; one that updated 
the outline for hiring, evaluating 
and removing SG directors; and 
one that made it a requirement for the chief justice, or some-one appointed by him or her, to 
publish an opinion on a judicial 
review within 10 business days.
Browning’s bills both laid out the fundrais-
ing director’s and the community outreach di-
rector’s duties in the SG constitution.
Senators also approved a bill by Sen. Con-
nor Levine that changed the members of the committee responsible for selecting the SG events chair and finance chair.SFC Senate approves budget 
requests, bills for leadership
HE’S CHARGED WITH BATTERY.
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Tuesday evening after he reportedly threat-
ened to kill a man, the man’s brother and a woman before crashing into their rental car.
Shortly after 7:30 p.m. at Village Green 
apartments, Bernard Karim Robinson, 21, made some disrespectful comments to a woman, according to a police report. A man then confronted Robinson about the situation, and the two started arguing.
The man’s brother tried to pull him off of 
Robinson before the three drove away in a rental car to get away from Robinson, accord-ing to the report.The woman, who was driving the car, 
told police she drove around before Robinson pulled up in a car next to them, according to the report. Robinson pointed his fingers as if they were a gun and threatened to kill them.
The woman continued to drive north-
bound on Northwest 13th Street before Robin-son pulled up next to them for a second time and threatened to kill them again, according 
to the report. He then crashed his car into 
the front passenger side before driving away northbound on Northwest Sixth Street.
One of the male passengers was transport-
ed to Shands Hospital with chest, shoulder and neck pain, according to the report.
Officers arrested Robinson on three charg-
es of aggravated battery and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remained as of 
press time in lieu of a $6,000 bond.Police: Local man arrested 
for threatening to kill three 
SANTA FEThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORUber ride-share deal 
promising, but we 
have some concerns
Prepare yourselves for one hell of a ride-sharing experi-
ence: Uber is coming to UF.
Well, yes, it’s been here for a while already — but 
now, it’s partnered up with UF’s Student Government as part of a Safe Ride initiative this April.
Here’s the deal: Uber will give a 50 percent discount on 
rides to registered UF students, with some stipulations. The discount is only available on Wednesdays through Saturdays between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. within a speciﬁ  c geographic area bordered by Northwest Eighth Avenue to the north, Archer Road to the south and Southwest 34th Street to the west. Bits of it also go all the way downtown to Main Street and to the area around Oxford Terrace apartments. Sadly, the ride has 
to begin and end within this zone in order for the discount 
to take effect.
The Safe Ride program with Uber won’t directly affect ex-
isting free services like the Student Nighttime Auxiliary Pa-
trol and RTS’ Later Gator nighttime rides — UF isn’t handing 
the company a monopoly on rides. 
But, unlike SNAP and Later Gators, using Uber will cost 
you. Fifty percent, though — that’s a really big price reduc-
tion. College students, as you may have known, don’t exactly have a lot of cash to throw around. But, if you’re not among the students who live on campus or Sorority Row, it’s a com-paratively cheap alternative that will get you where you need to be with hardly any walking. A couple dollars for a ride home is surely preferable to drunkenly stumbling there or attempting to wait at the right bus stop. The fact that the map includes the two main nightlife centers — Midtown and downtown — is a welcome addition, if not a surprise.
But the major issue we see with the program is this: It cuts 
out after 34th Street and Archer, meaning the many students who live south and east of that border will be left out. 
The overall hope is that the partnership will improve stu-
dent safety, adding another choice to the existing options of using SNAP, taking a bus, driving drunk or walking home.
But wait, there’s a big “however” coming. However, Uber is often sketchy as all hell.Not to rain on anybody’s parade — after all, we think 
this is a great idea — but it’s prudent to remember some questionable aspects of the company we’d be doing business with.
Uber has garnered itself a rather nasty reputation for us-
ing Scientology-esque tactics against its competitors and its critics. They’ve been caught sabotaging ride orders from ri-val companies in an attempt to undermine competition. They treat their drivers horribly, and once an Uber executive sug-gested the company investigate a journalist critical of the 
company, presumably to blackmail her.
Sometimes, Uber drivers themselves commit crimes. 
There are a litany of cases where drivers assault passengers, 
including one where a driver returned to somebody’s house and attempted a robbery.
On the whole, though, this will probably be good for us. 
Uber’s general sketchiness won’t affect us directly, and creeps exist everywhere — just be wary of suspicious behavior. 
Evangelical voters may decide fate of 2016 election
In order to win an election, a campaign has to mobilize 
voters. The best way to mobilize voters is to go after gal-vanized and organized groups of constituents.    
Perhaps the most mobilized and galvanized group in 
American politics is Christian voters — more speciﬁ  cally, 
evangelical voters. Though the number of Americans who consider themselves religious has been steadily decreasing for decades, evangelical voters still head to the polls in great numbers. And the numbers of evangelicals are growing. This is in no small part due to the newest members of the evan-gelical coalition: Hispanics.
More and more Hispanics are shifting away from the 
more liberal Pope Francis-led Roman Catholic Church and into more conservative American megachurches. According 
to the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, 
“35 percent of Hispanics in America now call themselves ‘born again.’” In addition to this, the Pew Research Center states that while “more than two-thirds of the 52 million-plus Latinos in the U.S. are Catholic, that number could be cut in half by 2030.” As the number of Hispanics in America continues to rise, so does the number of evangelicals. This contributes to the expanding inﬂ  uence of the Christian right.  
Evangelicals are incredibly involved in politics. Remem-
ber who evangelicals favored in 2008: former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, the guy who won the Iowa caucus. In 2012, they supported former Sen. Rick Santorum, who placed sec-ond in the Republican primaries. Evangelicals can and do easily inﬂ  uence an election.  
Now consider what the Republican hopefuls will have to 
face in 2016: the primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. These states have impressive numbers of evangelical Christians who vote. In 2012, 57 per-
cent of Iowa Republican voters were evangelical. In South 
Carolina, 65 percent of Republicans were. 
If the candidates get past these ﬁ  rst four states, they head 
to what NBC’s Chuck Todd calls the “SEC Primary.” These Southeastern states include Mississippi, Arkansas, Texas, Alabama, Tennessee and Georgia. Evangelicals make up at least 24 percent and at most 41 percent of these states’ popu-lations.Now you can see why Ted Cruz 
went to the evangelical Liberty Uni-versity to announce his candidacy. You can also see why the Grand Old Party contenders are supporting Indi-
ana’s religious freedom bill.
Evangelicals’ strong turnout rate, 
political involvement and growing 
numbers make the Christian right one of the most, if not the most, important constituencies in the Republican and 
General elections. This is worrying for the establishment GOP. Jeb Bush has raised more money than any other poten-tial Republican candidate. However, dollar bills can’t vote. 
Mobilized citizens can. For the lesser-known establishment 
candidates who are falling behind the Bush money machine and have little evangelical support — say a Chris Christie or a Bobby Jindal — this development does not bode well.    
What I would like to know is what the evangelicals would 
like in return for their support.  
George W. Bush captured the evangelical vote in 2000 
and 2004. He gave them two very religious, albeit Catho-lic, Supreme Court justices who favor the religious rights of 
corporations. In 2002, he designed “faith-based initiatives” 
to “federally fund faith-based programs.” What would the current evangelical movement, which feels more under siege from the liberal secularists than ever, want in exchange for their support? I can imagine they would want prayer in the classroom and the continuation of religious tax exemption. These are not necessarily bad things for the secular country, but these issues are important to the evangelical community.
For those who do not like the growing inﬂ  uence of evan-
gelicals, one can claim the religious voters want to undo the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision and limit marriage to one man and one woman. In any event, evangelical voters could be kingmakers in the 2016 election. Because of their political inﬂ  uence, they will not only be involved in the 2016 campaign, but also in the governing of the country thereafter. 
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
More performers in Gainesville this week:
Check out the interview with Hi-Rez and Caravan of Thieves, pg. 10One year after HIMYM’s crappy ﬁ  nale: 
Drown your sorrows with alcohol, pg. 8-9THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Michaela Beeda
Avenue Writer
Atlas Road Crew will be making a pit stop in 
Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time, and vocalist and guitar-
ist Taylor Nicholson is ready to bring everything to the table.
“We’ll bring some loud rock ’n’ roll, so I hope you 
guys like it,” Nicholson said.
The Southern rock ’n’ roll band with 
a spark of soul will be performing at The Jam,  at 817 W. University Ave., as a part of an extended tour of the east coast. The show will begin at 8 p.m. Fri-day.
Originally from Columbia, South Carolina, Atlas 
Road Crew began its music career in 2011 as students at the University of South Carolina playing for bars as a cover band. Nicholson said that with the help of family and friends, the band has been able to envision music as a real career and released its ﬁ  rst full-length album, “Halfway to Hopkins,” in February.
Atlas Road Crew now lives in Charleston, South Car-
olina, where it has built a dedicated fan base and have developed a unique sound.
The diverse set of sounds the album exhibits is due 
to the band working with three different producers from three different studios across two states. Nicholson said that each producer had his or her own style and tech-nique that brought the album together.
“It was like a mini learning experience working with 
the different people and their different sounds,” Nich-olson said.
The distinct set of soul-driven jams has really struck 
a chord with the younger crowds who gather around college towns.
Blake Briand, one of the owners of The Jam, said 
that he has deﬁ  nitely noticed the student audience sur-
rounding the band, but he is expecting 
a fair amount of the venue’s regulars to 
come out to the show as well.
“A lot of our regulars do like a bit of 
a jam band with a Southern-rock vibe. It’s something that a lot of them, I think, 
would enjoy,” Briand said.
Briand said that he is hoping that this show allows 
Atlas Road Crew to ﬁ  nd an audience in Gainesville that appreciates its music and which the band can build from whenever it performs in the area. The sounds range from upbeat blends of rock ’n’ roll in songs like “Black Eye Sunrise,” to the Southern soul rhythms with 
a hint of blues in songs like “Low Country Blues.”
Coming all this way as a musician, Nicholson said 
the learns something new every day, but the most im-
portant concept the has learned is patience.
“You kind of want everything to happen overnight 
or immediate success. But, you know, it comes down to hard work kind of pays off,” Nicholson said. Atlas Road Crew to bring southern 
rock to The Jam on Friday night 
STAGE
By Kelsey Sanchez
Avenue Writer
UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance is hosting its last theatre 
production of the semester with Shakespeare’s “The Comedy of Er-rors.”
The show is set to debut Fri-
day and run through April 12 at the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. This slapstick 
comedy tells the story of two sets 
of twins and their mother and father being separated from one another by a terrible storm. It ex-
plores love, rivalry and ﬁ  nding 
one’s identity, director Judith Wil-
liams said.
“It’s great fun — a lot of mis-
taken identities,” she said. “Every-
one comes in at the wrong time.”
Marissa Secades, an 18-year-
old UF theatre student, said she’s 
excited to watch her friends in the show.
“I have some friends in the 
production, so it’s going to be re-ally exciting to see them transform into a completely different person on stage,” she said.
Hope Golds, a 19-year-old UF 
theatre student, will play the cour-tesan in the show and said she is looking forward to playing a se-ductive character. 
“I haven’t played this type of 
character before, but because of the actors that I am working with makes it easier to play her because they are so full of life,” she said.
Along with Golds, fellow actor 
24-year-old UF theatre graduate student Jacob Lesh will play An-tipholus of Syracuse,  and he said he recommends everyone to come 
out and see the show.
“There’s not a show like it,” 
Lesh said. “It’s sexy, smart and 
witty.”
The show is open to the public. 
Tickets are $13 for UF students, 
faculty, and staff, as well as se-
nior citizens, and $17 for the gen-eral public. Tickets are available at ticketmaster.com or at the Uni-
versity Box Ofﬁ  ce (Gate 1) at the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center.UF Theatre’s rendition of ‘Comedy of Errors’ to start Friday
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF theatre graduate student Jacob Lesh, 24, poses as Antipholus of Syracuse, and UF acting 
graduate student Christie Robinson, 31, as Adriana.
MUSICTonight
Grooveshark is hosting a night with Wuki, the solo project 
of Denver producer Kris Barman, at 2nd Street Speak-easy at 9 p.m. for those 21 and up. Admission is free, but RSVPing is recommended on the Grooveshark website. 
Complimentary beer will be available for those who ar-
rive early.
Friday
Cymplify is hosting a food truck fundraiser rally from 5 to 9 
p.m. to support Grace Marketplace. Cash, check or credit 
donations are encouraged. Food trucks at the rally will 
include Bubba Luigi, Fedco, GoGoStuff Yourself, Humble 
Pie and Meet Up Food Truck. Attendees can take a shuttle service from Buchholz High School to Cymplify.
SaturdayBells and Robes are having a release party for their latest 
EP, “One Should See Sound Part II,” at 8 p.m. at The 
Jam. Guest performers include Dynohunter, Sumilian, 
Ardency and Designer Drugs. Tickets are $8 in advance (bit.ly/bellsnrobes) and $10 at the door.
Upcoming EventsTHURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
Amid news earlier this year of Dream-
Works Animation having to cut about 500 
employees due to low box ofﬁ  ce turnouts, the studio premiered its new animated fea-ture “Home” on Friday in hopes of crawl-
ing out of its ﬁ  nancial hole.
The ﬁ  lm centers around the Boov, a 
fearful and ﬂ  ighty alien race being followed 
by their ominous enemies, the Gorgs. The Boov seek refuge on Earth and relocate all humans to Australia, but they miss one: a teenage girl named Gratuity “Tip” Tucci (voiced by Rihanna) — nice pun, Dream-Works — who gets separated from her 
mother, Lucy (Jennifer Lopez). Tip, the 
animation company’s ﬁ  rst black female protagonist, reluctantly teams up with a misﬁ  t Boov named Oh (Jim Parsons) af-ter he mistakenly informs the Gorgs of his race’s location. With Tip on a quest to ﬁ  nd her mother and Oh on the run from both the Gorgs and his own people, the duo at-tempts to overcome their differences and 
learn the importance of friendship along the way.
Sounds a bit conventional, right?
The story is, in fact, formulaic and 
offers little ingenuity. With rushed ex-position, the misﬁ  t arcs of Tip and Oh fall short. Tip was bullied in school, but DreamWorks disappointingly fails to pro-
vide commentary on how she was dis-
criminated against for being of Caribbean 
descent, instead only mentioning it off-
handedly. Just as lazy is Oh’s backstory, as he was initially outcast by his race for no other reason than for being a little too 
friendly. The plot is predictable, and the 
themes are expressed very directly — seri-ously, the characters all go on long spiels about kid-friendly lessons and leave no room for deeper meaning.
Despite all this, the ﬁ  lm does possess 
some redeeming qualities. A few of the jokes pass for an adult audience, and the characters become more endearing as the ﬁ  lm progresses. While many of the more serious scenes come off as cheesy, a few 
are genuinely touching. The celebrity-ﬁ  lled 
cast provides some support for the ﬁ  lm, and while the modern pop soundtrack is distracting at times, Rihanna’s featured songs ﬁ  t well. The animation is mostly faultless, though some of the alien designs are too reminiscent of the 2010 ﬁ  lm, “Me-gaMind.”
With “Home,” DreamWorks will cer-
tainly draw in its intended demographic, but it will leave older viewers shrugging and mumbling about how it’s just “kind of cute.” The ﬁ  lm is fun, but it isn’t memo-rable — Tip and Oh are certainly no Shrek and Donkey. While the minority represen-tation is a refreshing step in the right direc-tion, DreamWorks has a lot to tweak plot- and character-wise in its future projects if 
it wants to salvage what’s barely left of its 
economic and reputable status.
ter he mistakenly informs the Gorgs of his 
race’s location. With Tip on a quest to ﬁ  nd 
her mother and Oh on the run from both 
the Gorgs and his own people, the duo at-
tempts to overcome their differences and 
learn the importance of friendship along 
By Moriah Gaynor
Avenue Writer
Suit up! Despite its rather lackluster ﬁ  nale one year ago (still 
salty over that one), the television show “How I Met Your Moth-
er” still holds a place very near and dear to my heart. “HIMYM” taught me the correct way to pick up someone at Midtown, it showed that “revertigo” is alive and well, and most importantly, a lower-back tattoo of a butterﬂ  y is not a good idea. So whether you’re watching from your couch or at your own version of MacLaren’s, get ready for a night that will be LEGEN — wait for it — DARY.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. 
Check back next week for the newest game.DRINK when…
The gang drinksThe Bro Code is mentionedSomeone has a telepathic conversationRanjit appearsBarney accepts a challenge
FINISH YOUR DRINK when...
A slap bet is made or a slap is performedThere is a college ﬂ  ashbackThe gang makes a new social theory
Someone “eats a sandwich”
When Ted ﬁ  nds the “love of his life”
Thereʼs a blue French horn or yellow umbrella sighting
By Keri and Kelsi Matwick
Avenue Writers
Food is highly personal. Talk with 
anyone about food, their favorite res-
taurant or the best thing they ever 
ate, and their eyes light up with ex-
citement. As they detail the taste, the dish, the setting, their “food voice” emerges. Coined by Annie Hauck-
Lawson, a professor at the City Uni-
versity of New York, “food voice” is 
the way you engage with food to as-
sert aspects of your identity. You de-velop your food voice as you create new recipes and dishes and try differ-
ent cuisines.
For instance, how do you like your 
hot dog? Cincinnati-style with chili, onions and cheddar cheese? Coney-
Dog-style with yellow mustard and diced white onions? Chicago-style with giardiniera? Your preferences re-
ﬂ  ect much about who you are, where 
you’re from and where you’ve been.
So, how do you develop your food 
voice — particularly when you’re 
writing about food?
Kelly Senyei, who wrote Food 
Blogging for Dummies, said there are 
ways to develop your food voice in 
writing: project conﬁ  dence, be au-
thentic and envision your brand. Even if you don’t talk about food much, everyone has to start some-
where. Leave the worries behind, and 
focus on what you want to say and what is important about it to you.For example, if you liked that 
cheesy pizza you made the other day or customized at Blaze Pizza, what makes it different from other pizzas you’ve had? Was it the quality of cheese? The San Marzano tomatoes? 
And why should your readers care 
about the pizza? Sure, we all love piz-za, but we’re more interested in the story behind it. This leads to seeing 
your food voice as part of your brand, 
a consistent platform in which you project your personality and personal tastes. Even if you aren’t interested in writing food blogs, being able to talk 
about it smartly will earn you respect 
from your peers and colleagues.
Food voice is the way you use food 
to communicate your identity, wheth-
er in your food habits, during conver-
sations or in your writing. What is your food voice? Go forth and bravely try new foods, combine new ﬂ  avors and ingredients (bananas with chick-
en, anyone?) and broaden the range 
of your food voice. And don’t forget to share your experience.‘Food voice’: What it is, how to get it
It’s part of your identity
“Sure, we all love pizza, but we’re more 
interested in the story behind it.”“The story is, in 
fact, formulatic 
and ofers little 
ingenuity.”Don’t leave ‘Home’ for new kids ﬁ  lm
MOVIES10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
By Nicolette Hoffman
Avenue Writer
Caravan of Thieves is making 
its way to Gainesville to perform 
Friday night.
The band, based in Bridgeport, 
Connecticut, and consisting of vocalists Fuzz and Carrie Sangiovanni, violinist Ben Dean and double bass 
maestro Brian An-
derson, will per-
form at the Historic Thomas Cen-ter, 302 NE Sixth Ave. Doors open at 6 p.m. and the show starts at 7.
Fuzz and Carrie said they are 
excited about playing in a new city.
“We love playing in new places 
we haven’t played before. It’s re-
ally fun, especially when there is 
a lot of new people at the show,” 
Carrie said. “You never forget your ﬁ  rst Caravan of Thieves experi-ence.”
Fuzz and Carrie said the Cara-
van of Thieves is a mix of swing, gypsy, folk and pop music. 
“When we started the band, 
we were going on a lot of tours — 
just Carrie and I basically singing 
and playing acoustic duo — and 
while we wanted to maintain that, we also wanted to add spice to the music,” Fuzz said. “We really 
liked the gypsy and swing music, so by adding in the upright bass 
and violin, we could produce the sound for Caravan of Thieves.”
The band has been touring for 
almost a month promoting their newest album, “Kiss Kiss,” which was released Tuesday. They will be in Florida for a whole week 
of shows in St. Au-gustine, Sarasota, St. Petersburg and more.
The crowd can 
expect to hear vari-
ous songs from their newest al-bum like “Raise the Dead,” “Dead Wrong” and “This Must Be Love.” Fuzz said the crowd could also ex-pect to hear their cover of Queen’s song “Bohemian Rhapsody.”
Russell Etling, cultural affairs 
interim manager for the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs, said they have partnered with Shakerag Culture Center to put Jewel Box Concerts together at the Historic Thomas Center.
“The Caravan of Thieves ﬁ  t into 
the theme we have for this peri-od of the year,” Etling said. “The genres of concerts played at the Thomas Center have ranged from bluegrass, Cuban jazz and, coming up soon, opera.”
Tickets can be purchased in ad-
vance for $15, or online at carava-nofthieves.com/tour.php.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Caravan of Thieves is performing at 7 p.m. Friday at the Historic Thomas Center. The band has been touring to promote their latest album. 
Caravan of Thieves to perform at Historic Thomas Center
MUSIC
IT’S AN 80S/90S FILM SERIES. 
By Ashlyn Pinter
Avenue Writer
There’s still a chance to go back in time at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre’s Time Warp 
80s/90s Night ﬁ  lm series showing of “The Princess Bride.”
The ﬁ  rst showing, being held tonight, of-
ﬁ  cially sold out about two and a half weeks after tickets went on sale. The quick selling out of the ﬁ  rst showing prompted a second one as requested by responses on the Facebook event page, said Alisha Kinman, director of cinema and development at the Hippodrome.
The event is a night of dressing up, eat-
ing themed food and drinks and participating in the viewing of the ﬁ  lm, held at the Hip-podrome, 25 SE Second Place. The ﬁ  lm was chosen for the time warp ﬁ  lm series through a combination of community outreach and staff, Kinman said.
Allison Alsup, development and cinema 
associate at the Hippodrome, said she expects 
the ﬁ  lm’s popular phrases will engage the au-
dience to shout them out at the screen with the actors. She said the throwback ﬁ  lm series allows those who grew up in the ‘80s and ‘90s to feel nostalgia.
“You get to see how your perspective on it 
has changed,” she said. 
Dressing up for the ﬁ  lm showing is encour-
aged, and all of the staff will be dressed up as well, Kinman said.
Andrea Erickson, a 22-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior who will be attending the ﬁ  rst showing, plans to buy tiaras 
with her friend and “dress up just to be silly.”
“It’s going to be fun seeing the ﬁ  lm on the 
big screen,” she said. “I haven’t seen the mov-
ie in forever.”
Both showings for tonight and Saturday will 
begin at 10 p.m., and doors open at 9:30. Tick-ets for the second showing are being sold now for $12.
“You’re not just coming to see a ﬁ  lm, 
you’re coming to see an event,” Kinman said. “We’re trying to make it as exciting as we pos-sibly can.”Sold-out showing of ‘The Princess Bride’ prompts 2nd show
By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
You may have heard rapper Hi-Rez’ latest song, “Ugh,” 
drop on Tuesday, but those who haven’t can catch it live this weekend.
On Saturday, the Fort Lauderdale-based emcee will bring 
his high-energy beats to High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. 
Doors open at 9 p.m. and the show will kick off at 10. Tickets 
can be purchased at the door for $13 or in advance for $10 at Hear Again Music and Movies, as well as on ticketweb.com.
This will be the rapper’s ﬁ  rst time headlining in Gainesville, 
and fans can expect anything from old-school style rhymes to contemporary beats.
“I could make somebody so emotional in one second and 
ﬂ  ip it around 10 minutes later and make a Top-40 club banger that you could have Miley Cyrus twerking to at the club,” Hi-
Rez said.
Among the four openers is local rapper BG Blazel, who has performed at High Dive several times.
You can expect Blazel, like Rez, to switch up from con-
scious songs to upbeat club tracks.
Blazel describes Hi-Rez’s style as a down-to-earth and laid-
back ﬂ  ow.
“If I could categorize it and imagine somebody, it would be 
Mac Miller,” he said.
Since 2011, 21-year-old Hi-Rez has built a large fan-base on 
social media through the release of ﬁ  ve mixtapes and music 
videos on YouTube. Fans have awaited his new music with the help of his social media campaign #BackSeatBars, where he freestyles in the backseats of cars.
Now, Hi-Rez said he is excited about the release of his new 
music. “Ugh” is the ﬁ  rst release off of his upcoming untitled mixtape. The rapper said he is more in tune with himself than he used to be, and this is the most effort he’s put into his mu-sic since he started.
“I’ve been working on this music for the last two years of 
my life so, you know, that right there is saying it itself,” he said.Ever since he started making music in middle school, he 
said he knew he wanted to be around music his entire life. The old-school rappers he grew up on, such as Biggie, Nas, JayZ and Tupac have placed a heavy inﬂ  uence on his rapping style.
Among his lyrics, a line that he said sticks with him is 
“Even through the darkness, there is light.” The rapper touch-es on issues such as emotional disorders and world problems.
Hi-Rez placed an importance on taking your work serious-
ly. He said he knew there were other artists that were better than him, but they didn’t take themselves half as seriously as he did.
“I took myself serious, which now looking back on it, was 
the most important thing in my life.”Rapper Hi-Rez to headline at High Dive for 1st time Friday
MUSIC“It’s going to be fun seeing the ilm 
on the big screen. I haven’t seen it in 
forever.”
Andrea Erickson
UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior
“I could make somebody so emotional in one second and lip 
it around 10 minutes later and make a top-40 club banger 
that you could have Miley Cyrus twerking to at the club.”
Hi-Rez
RapperBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balconyParking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSEBike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
Charming house two bedrooms one bath screened porch large fenced yard central heat/air,washer/dryer 1123 NW 31st Ave Lease $750 dog deposit call 352 475 1586 /352 213 1963    4-3-15-5-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   4-14-15-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Lane sofa recliner L-shaped with chaise. Chocolate, perfect top-end furniture. Great size for apt. $600 obo. 352-463-6609    4-2-5-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UPPAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!$300 & UP!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $99995 Toyota Camry $125088 Honda Civic $125095 Pontiac Bonneville $1300352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $175092 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $95000 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UP
NO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    
4-22-14-71-12
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store 
off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-3-15-10-14
Housekeeper/driverNeeded 2 days a week/3 hours a day for a family in NW Gainesville near SFCC. Must like cats and dogs. Please email your resume or information about your-self to: altacct@yahoo.com    4-3-15-3-14
Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl basic English and math to help her trans-fer to the US education system. Experience with children and reference required. ~20hr/wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    4-2-15-8-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   1 3 
Help Wanted: small lawn and garden.
Two times each month.
call 352-384-3998     4-3-5-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
    
B.A.S.S. is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in psychology,
special education, or related fields
to work with
individuals with developmental disabilities.
Interest in behavior analysis, diet,
and/or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at
lister@behavioralsupports.com for more info.
4-6-15-4-14Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: April 13, 2015 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     4-2-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 20 Event Notices 21 EntertainmentTHURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF track team back home
The No. 2 Florida men's and women's
track and ﬁ  eld teams will host the Florida relays this weekend. Read 
the story on page 16.UF softball pitcher Lauren Haeger was selected in the fourth round of the National Pro Fastpitch Senior Draft on Tuesday.THE NCAA GRANTED JAKE 
MCGEE A SIXTH YEAR OF 
ELIGIBILITY AFTER BEING 
INJURED LAST SEASON.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
There was a time last season when Jake 
McGee questioned his decision to come to 
Florida – albeit brieﬂ  y.
After expressing interest in transferring 
from Virginia in the summer of 2014 with a year of football eligibility left, the ﬁ  fth-year se-nior chose the Gators and former head coach 
Will Muschamp as the benefactors of his tal-
ents.
But McGee suffered a broken tibia and ﬁ  b-
ula in his left leg in Florida’s season-opening 65-0 triumph over Eastern Michigan, and just 
like that his season was over before it could 
even really begin.
“It’s something you don’t expect,” McGee 
said. “Playing football you know what can 
happen, you know injury is a part of the game. 
It’s sort of a freak accident.”
McGee said he was disappointed and in 
shock over his injury, but that feeling didn’t stay for long.
Instead, McGee’s thoughts turned to how 
he would return to football.
Having already used his redshirt in his ﬁ  rst 
season at Virginia, McGee was far from guar-anteed another year of NCAA eligibility.
Undeterred, McGee started ﬁ  lling out the 
paperwork and taking the necessary steps to 
apply for another year.
He called it a stressful situation that had 
him checking with UF’s compliance depart-
ment almost daily to make sure he followed the correct procedures.Based on previous NCAA decisions, it 
seemed like a long shot that the association would grant his request. 
McGee wondered if he would be rehabbing 
for the purpose of receiving a potential draft evaluation from the NFL.
He thought his career as a Gator would be 
labeled a disappointing one.
“It wasn’t looking good for a while,” Mc-
Gee said. “If I had to bet money I would say I wouldn’t be back here this year. It was some-thing I didn’t expect, to be back this year, obvi-
ously.”
When Florida ﬁ  red Muschamp in Novem-
UF volleyball players representing United States
Senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino will participate in the China T our this sum-
mer as part of the U.S. Volleyball Collegiate National team, UF announced Wednesday. T eammate Alex Holston will compete for T eam USA as part of the World University Games. UF's Mary Wise will serve as T eam USA's head coach.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF tight end Jake McGee walks to the practice field at Donald R. Dizney Stadium on Monday. McGee was granted a sixth 
year of eligibility by the NCAA on Jan. 20 after a broken leg suffered in Florida's 65-0 season-opening win over Eastern Michigan kept him out for the remainder of the season. 
Tight end preparing for ﬁ  nal year of college football
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
AIR JORDAN
Before Spring practice 
began, ﬁ  rst-year head coach Jim McElwain said it’s impossible 
to replace a player of 
Dante Fowler’s caliber.
Logically, that makes sense.
Fowler, who declared for 
the 2015 NFL Draft as a junior and is projected to be a top-ﬁ  ve draft pick when April 30 rolls around, is an absolute monster 
of a player who managed to record 34 tack-
les behind the line of scrimmage and 14.5 sacks in three years while being double-teamed on a regular basis.
But during those three years where he 
was leading Florida's pass rush and slam-ming quarterbacks into the ground with relative ease, Fowler was also training his protégé in Alex McCalister, 
prepping him to take over when 
Fowler’s collegiate career came to an end.
Now, it’s McCalister’s turn, 
and the redshirt junior has all the tools he needs to be just as good — if not better — than Dante Fowler was at UF.
“I know with Dante being gone, that’s 
what everybody’s saying, ‘Oh shoot, 14’s gotta step up,’” McCalister said. “That’s what’s going to happen.”
McCalister’s coaches have done noth-McCalister will shine next year
Jordan     
McPherson
Twitter: @J_McPherson1126FLORIDA GAVE UP A GAME-
TYING HOME RUN IN THE SEV-
ENTH INNING.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
The No. 3 Florida softball 
team had the game in hand.
UF led 1-0 heading into 
the seventh inning against 
North Florida and looked to put the game to rest.
But with one out in the seventh inning, 
UNF’s Shelby Duncan cranked a towering home run to right ﬁ  eld off Delanie Gour-ley — who entered the game in relief of starter Lauren Haeger — to tie the game.Walton then threw Haeger back in the 
circle, and the senior held it down until freshman Janell Wheaton hit a walk-off double in the bottom of the eighth inning as the Gators (33-4) defeated the Ospreys 
(21-19) 2-1 Wednesday night at Katie Sea-
shole Pressly Stadium.
Haeger and Gourley had combined 
for a perfect game until the game-tying homer.
Haeger ﬁ  nished with 6.2 
perfect innings and struck out 11 batters. The Peoria, Arizona, native’s record 
now sits at a perfect 15-0.
Walton said Haeger threw more in-
nings than he was planning. 
“We just don’t feel like we wanna UF tops UNF in extra innings
SEE JORDAN,  PAGE 15 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15SOFTBALLing but rave about him during the first three 
weeks of Spring practice.
Defensive line coach Chris Rumph calls 
him the Energizer Bunny, citing his non-stop 
effort on every play and his intense energy 
anytime someone on the defense makes a big play.
McElwain said his spirit is contagious and 
his work ethic pushes his fellow linemen to 
step up their game.
“I love the way he plays the game," McEl-
wain said. "He’s got some unique pass-rush-ing ability.”
McCalister’s main advantage is his size. 
The Clemmons, North Carolina, native stands 
at 6-foot-6 and has a 7-foot-2 wingspan, per-fect for helping push away from offensive 
linemen and wrapping up players before they 
get out of reach.
He’s quick off the snap and brings energy 
and excitement every time he steps up to the 
line of scrimmage.
And after last season, he finally has the 
stats to prove his value.
In 12 games as Fowler’s backup, McCali-
ster tallied eight tackles for loss and six sacks — a team-high before Fowler sacked East Car-
olina quarterback Shane Carden three times 
in Florida’s 28-20 Birmingham Bowl victory, which gave Fowler 8.5 on the season.
“He always had that motor,” McCalister 
said of Fowler. “He’s always going, no matter 
what. When it’s football time, it’s time to go, 
it’s time to click.”
Now, it’s McCalister’s turn to turn on the 
motor, rev up the engine and wreak havoc on 
the opposing offense.
“When it’s time for ball, it’s time to go 
play,” McCalister said.
And he will.
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Alligator File Photo
Alex McCalister (14) and Dante Fowler Jr. celebrate after 
UF's defense forced a turnover during the Florida's 65-0 win against Eastern Michigan on Sept. 6 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
JORDAN,  from pg. 14McCalister has speed, size, instinctsber, McGee was still without word from the 
NCAA. After the Gators hired new head coach Jim McElwain, McGee took a look at the sys-
tems McElwain used at Colorado State and pre-
viously at Alabama under coach Nick Saban.
“When we came in, our use of the (tight end) position was something that kind of ex-cited him a little bit,” McElwain said. “I sure didn’t want him to leave. I talked to him. And yet, that really was out of our hands. It was in 
the NCAA’s hands.”
As the break passed, McGee enrolled in 
spring classes with the intent of finishing his 
Master’s degree in sport management. But classes were stressful without a definitive an-swer as to whether he could finish out the se-mester or not.
Finally, two weeks into classes on Jan. 20, 
McGee received word that the NCAA would 
grant him a sixth year of eligibility.
He would have one more shot at being a 
college football player, and a Florida Gator. 
While the injury couldn’t have come at a 
worse time for McGee’s career, he knows it came at the right time for the NCAA to grant 
him an exception.
“I was not thinking I’d get it, but the way 
the NCAA is doing more for the athletes with 
the extra money, extra meals, stuff like that, it 
felt like another thing they were looking out for,” McGee said. “I would say that, a couple years ago, even last year, something like this — I wouldn’t be playing this year.”FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14McGee did not expect to earn the extra year of playing time
push her to the limit this early in the season,” Walton said. 
Florida is now 6-0 against 
UNF all time.
The Gators threatened in 
the bottom of the first with back-to-back one out walks, 
but freshman Kayli Kvistad 
hit into a fielder’s choice and Haeger popped up to end the inning.
In the second inning, Flor-
ida had two runners on from singles from junior Taylore Fuller and sophomore Jus-tine McLean but couldn’t 
plate them as Kelsey Stewart 
popped up to short to end the frame.
Once again, UF couldn’t 
seize an opportunity to score 
in the third inning. 
Freshman Nicole DeWitt 
was thrown out trying to 
stretch a leadoff double into a triple and a few batters later Fuller struck out with the bas-
es loaded to end the inning.
The Gators finally put up a 
run in the fourth inning.
After Stewart ripped a sin-
gle to right and DeWitt was hit 
by a pitch, the two completed a double steal of second and third. 
Next, junior Kirsti Mer-
ritt hit an infield single that bounced off the pitcher’s glove to bring home Stewart and give Florida a 1-0 lead.
Gourley, who replaced Hae-
ger in the circle in the sixth inning, was cruising until she allowed the homer to Duncan.  
In the bottom of the eighth 
inning, Wheaton slapped a one-out double to right field that scored Fuller and secured the win.
“It was awesome, coach 
Walton told me to do what I do,” Wheaton said. 
“I trusted myself and it 
worked out.”
Next, Florida will play 
South Carolina for a series this weekend in Gainesville. 
The first game against the 
Gamecocks is set for 6 p.m. on Friday.SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Florida improves to 
6-0 all-time against 
North Florida
“It was awesome. Coach 
Walton told me to do what 
I do. I trusted myself and it 
worked out."
Janell Wheaton
UF softball player16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015
TRACK AND FIELD
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
 
Usually, coach Mike Holloway 
and the No. 2 Florida men’s and 
women’s track and field teams take their show on the road.
The Gators have traveled near 
and far this season, venturing as far as Ames, Iowa, for the Iowa State Classic on Valentine’s Day weekend and as close as Orlando for the UCF Black and Gold Challenge and UCF Invitational — both taking place just 
125 miles from UF’s campus.
But this weekend, the Gators are 
staying home.
For the first time this season, Flor-
ida will host a meet in Gainesville, 
where the Pepsi Florida Relays will take place at the Percy Beard Track.
Parking near the O’Connell Cen-
ter will be lifted for the event, and 
James G. Pressly Stadium is expect-
ed to fill to maximum capacity.
Senior Ciarra Brewer feels the 
luxury of racing on home turf gives the Gators a large advantage over 
the rest of the field.
“We’ve trained on this track, we 
know this track,” Brewer said. “It’s 
just a practice 
with more com-petition.”
Brewer has 
been one of the main contribu-
tors to Florida’s 
success through-out both the in-door and outdoor seasons. She has placed in the top 
five in all but one of her events this 
year and was crowned the women’s indoor triple jump champion at the NCAA Indoor Championships in March.
While Brewer feels that the fac-
tors affected by the home meet put Florida in a favorable position, Hol-loway knows that the squad cannot 
rely on the possible home-meet ad-
vantages to perform well.
“It’s always good to be at home 
in front of your home crowd and alumni and in front of friends and 
family,” Holloway said. “Other than 
that it’s just another track meet.”
This weekend’s meet begins a 
month-long stretch in which the Gators will escape the traveling that consumes much of the team’s sea-son. 
Florida will get a three-week 
competitive break leading up to this 
year’s Tom Jones Memorial Invi-
tational in Gainesville on April 24, followed by the LSU Invitational in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
Gators preparing to compete on home track this weekend
Brewer
