VOLUME 109 ISSUE 92 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Florida remains spot-free of measles despite nat’l spike
So far there are 84 cases in the U.S., none in Florida, pg 5.  
Students share #UFBackstories
The trend started at other universities, pg 9. Hunter wins all-around as UF tops UGA
The senior has won four-straight all-around 
titles this season, pg. 16.ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Despite it being Super Bowl Sunday, stu-
dents dropped by the UF Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom for the ﬁ  rst day of qualifying and slating for Spring 2015 elections.
Qualifying and slating will continue today 
from 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
In order to qualify, students must show their Gator 1 Card and give their total credit count. After a student qualiﬁ  es for a seat, he or she can choose to run, which is called slat-
ing, with a political party, or run as an inde-
pendent.  
UF Supervisor of Elections Hans Rojas said 
more students slated this semester than last.
Rojas said 37 students qualiﬁ  ed and slated 
on Sunday, with 18 students each slating with Access and Swamp parties, and one who slat-ed as an independent.According to Alligator archives, 11 stu-
dents qualiﬁ  ed on the ﬁ  rst day of Fall 2014 slating, and last year about 60 students quali-
ﬁ  ed on the ﬁ  rst day of Spring 2014 slating.
“(We are) overall pleased with the perfor-
mance of day one of qualifying and slatting,” 
Rojas said.
During Spring elections, students are elect-
ed based on their college or number of credit hours.
Students with one to 29 credits qualify as freshmen, students with 30 to 59 credits qual-ify as sophomores and students with more than 60 credits represent their colleges.
The amount of seats a college receives is 
based off population.
Swamp Party President and spokesman 
Ricky Salabarria wrote in an email that he was thrilled with the students who slated with Swamp Party.Michael Frazier 
II showed maturity 
during Florida’s 
win against 
Arkansas on 
Saturday. Read the 
story on page 13.
66/33
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13
CAMPUS
CHELSEY FREEMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art is receiving national 
attention for its digital member card app with a recent fea-ture in artdaily.org.
The online art newspaper featured the app, citing it as an 
innovative way to increase members.
“It’s very important for us to encourage students to bring 
art into their lives,” said Tami Wroath, Harn director of mar-keting and public relations. “No matter where they are, they can use the app, and they can take advantage of whatever art museums are around them at the time.”
The member card app was released Jan. 16, and the mu-
seum offers a free membership courtesy of UF Student Gov-ernment.
It is available for iOS and Android phones and is free to download. The app includes free or discounted admission into art museums around the U.S. as well as a check-off fea-ture for the museums visited.
There are about 900 free student memberships still avail-
able, Wroath said.
UF visual art studies senior Carolina Delgado said she 
is planning to use her app and membership perks for the Brooklyn or Whitney museums.
“I’m going to New York in March,” Delgado, 23, said, “so 
there are a lot of museums there that I believe I can get into for free with my member beneﬁ  ts.”Harn digital membership receives nat’l recognition
Fewer slate for Spring elections on day one than in 2014
SEE SLATE, PAGE 4“It’s very important for us to encourage 
students to bring art into their lives.”
Tami Wroath
Harn director of marketing and public relations
Sydney Dixon / AlligatorThe Fall
Students tear down the 364-cinder-block wall ﬁ  lled with negative words, stereotypes and insults Friday after-noon on the Plaza of the Americas. The 13th annual Writing on the Wall Project was hosted by the Inter-Resi-dence Hall Association.News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 92 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
52/31RAIN
62/39RAIN
64/52SUNNY
62/43THUNDER-
STORMS
66/33FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. the new fight over trying to 
reverse the gains made 50 years ago. The event is free and open to the public. Call 352-392-7168 or visit oral.his-
tory.ufl.edu
¿Qué Pasa? – Objectifying 
Stereotypes in the Latinx 
CommunityJoin La Casita for our first Cafe Cultural of the Spring semester on Feb. 10 at noon! It’s a new year, and what 
better way to honor the pro-
ductivity we will accomplish than by exploring one of our favorite beverages: coffee. Come learn more about the varieties of this tasty drink and enjoy some free samples yourself.
Cinema Verde seeks vendors
The sixth annual Cinema Verde environmental film and arts festival is seeking environmentally conscious vendors for our eco-fair on Feb. 14 at the Paramount Plaza Hotel. Please contact Trish@cinemaverde.org.  For 
more information about our 
four-day festival visit cin-emaverde.org. Thank you!
Valentines for Veterans Spirit 
of America, Gainesville Civic Chorus Master ChoraleMusic is the poetry of the air. 
Its use has made a powerful 
impact during times of war. It bolstered those serving on the front lines as well as those waiting at home. Come hear songs that helped those in battle or eulogized those who fell in the name of free-dom. Join with us in salut-
ing our veterans in song on 
Feb. 14 at 7:30 p.m. at First United Methodist Church of Gainesville located at 419 NE First St. More information can be found at GCChorus.org
“A T. rex Named Sue” Loves 
You: A Valentine’s Night at the MuseumSpend Valentine’s evening at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing triv-ia games with your favorite gal, “A T. rex Named Sue.” The program fee includes ad-mission to “A T. rex Named 
Sue” and participation in the 
museum’s Trivia Night. The museum is open from 6 to 10 p.m. for this event, and trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. Paid upon entry to the Florida Museum, the program fee is $10 per person or $15 per couple and free for University of Florida 
students with a valid Gator 1 
Card and museum members. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for adults aged 18 years and older only. Pre-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Authors@UF: A Conversation 
with Ted SpikerAssociate Professor in the Department of Journalism Ted Spiker will discuss his 
book “Down Size: 12 Truths 
for Turning Pants-Splitting Frustration into Pants-Fitting Success” on Tuesday from 5 to 6:15 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Come meet Ted Spiker as he shares his vulner-able, hilarious and ultimately insightful experience on tak-
ing the scale — and himself — 
head on, and how he teaches, writes, runs and blogs while serving as the interim chair of the department. Check out his video at tedspiker.com. Refreshments will be served.
Fulbright Talk
Eileen Ariza will speak Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. in McCarty Hall D, Room G001. Ariza is a professor at Florida Atlantic University and a Fulbright Ambassador. Before moving to Florida, Ariza was a teaching fellow in the English Language Institute at Harvard University 
and taught English and related 
work in several countries, in-cluding Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Brazil, Spain and the Philippines. Come and learn about the Fulbright experience. For off-campus audiences, videoconferencing 
via Polycom will be available. 
There will be refreshments and networking after the lecture. For more information about this event, contact professor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-
crease your global awareness, 
enhance your foreign language skills, make friends, establish new contacts, strengthen your resume and intern abroad. All of these opportunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. For additional 
information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or email dmc-neil@ufic.ufl.edu.
“The More Things Change, The 
More They Remain the Same: Race In America”On Thursday at 5 p.m. in Pugh 
Hall, the Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program presents the Alice Mary Baldwin Professor of History at Duke University, Dr. William Chafe, who will deliver a lecture entitled, “The More Things Change, The More They Remain the Same: Race in America.” Dr. 
Chafe will review the roles of 
the state and grassroots pro-tests in creating social change then subsequently protecting or reversing it. Dr. Chafe will discuss how the 1890s led to state repression and institu-tionalized Jim Crow, how the movement reversed that pro-
cess, how the Civil Rights Act 
and Voting Rights Act changed some things but not others and registration is required. For more information call 352-273-
2061.
Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History Museum
Become a part of music his-tory. Learn how to become a better writer and hear musical masterpieces unfold around you with a lesson and presen-
tation by the Dixie Desperados 
on Feb. 19 from 6 to 8 p.m. A similar event will be March 12 at the same time, featuring a lesson and presentation by Stan Lynch, the former drum-mer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come alive Feb. 26 with a multimedia pre-sentation by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This 
lecture, running from 6 to 8 
p.m. at the Matheson History Museum, examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for well-known musical sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqMONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Melissa Gomez / Alligator
Kevin “Kev Marcus” Sylvester (left) pumps up the audience through song while Wilner 
“Wil B.” Baptiste plays on his viola, “Tiffany.”
MELISSA GOMEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Black Violin greeted its Gainesville 
audience with an explosive sound, the 
stage a mix of the electric violin, viola, 
drums, keyboard and a DJ booth.
Wilner “Wil B.” Baptiste and Kevin 
“Kev Marcus” Sylvester, both classical-
ly trained viola and violin musicians, 
form the duo Black Violin and played 
their 27th show of the year Saturday 
night at the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts.
The duo performed classical-pop 
versions of “Radioactive” by Imagine 
Dragons and a medley of Daft Punk’s 
“Get Lucky,” which transitioned into 
Bruno Mars’ “Treasure.”
They said their original song, “The 
Mission,” exemplified their music ex-perimentation, and they are constantly 
looking for new ways to play the vio-
lin. Sylvester played his electric violin 
as if it were a guitar throughout the tune.
The duo also freestyled, played so-
los and improvised tunes.
“This is our mission,” Baptiste said 
to the full audience. “But what’s yours? ... If you have dreams, do it.”
Both Sylvester and Baptiste en-
couraged flash photography, dancing, 
cheering and clapping throughout the 
performance — as long as the audience tagged them on social media. Any mo-ment could be a YouTube moment, Syl-vester said.
The night ended with a surprise for 
Kevin Sylvester’s retired violin teacher — who taught him in Fort Lauderdale 24 years ago and retired in Gainesville 
— when Sylvester’s sister, Kendra, a 
UF medical school student, gave him flowers.
Priya Shil, a UF microbiology soph-
omore, said she cried during the per-
formance.
“From one musician to another,” 
Shil, 19, said, “their music touched my 
heart.”Black Violin brings untraditional music to Phillips Center
 “If you have dreams, do it.”
Wilner Baptiste
artist of Black ViolinMONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 � ALLIGATOR, 3 2, ALLIGATOR � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015“We are looking forward to 
the next two days of slating and 
meeting more students with a passion to deliver the results our Student body deserves,” he 
said.
Access Party and Swamp 
Party will notify candidates 
that have been selected to run with the respective parties by Wednesday.
Access Party campaign 
manager Michael Christ said he felt the candidates’ ideas were 
similar to the ideologies of the 
party.  “We’re looking for people 
that are qualified, that have the passion, have the ideas to make Student Government repre-sentative of all the students on campus,” Christ said.
He said the party was en-
couraged by the amount of people who came out to run with them.
“We’re a new party, but 
we’re very excited about the re-
sponse we’ve gotten,” he said, 
adding that he thinks the party will exceed expectations.
Elections will take place Feb. 
24 and Feb. 25 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.Hannah Morse / Alligator
Going for the Gold
UF joint degree candidate Jared Burns finishes the Environmental and Land Use Law Society Eco Run in first 
place with 20 minutes, 4 seconds on Saturday. The run raised funds for the 21st Annual Public Interest Envi -
ronmental Conference at UF from February 12-14.
LOCAL
ANSLEY PENTZ and CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Writers
Instead of going to The Oaks Mall to buy 
a blue and orange sweatshirt, Rony Schutz 
stayed at home and ordered it from Amazon.
According to Green Street Advisors’ real 
estate analysts, the biggest threat to shopping 
malls is an increase in online shopping, which 
is likely to impact mall revenues.
It’s easier to shop online, said Schutz, a 
19-year-old UF electrical engineering fresh-man.  
“I can read reviews right there and then,” 
he said. “I can find the cheapest prices easier.”
While Schutz prefers to shop quickly on-
line, 18-year-old Chase Chesonis, a sales as-
sociate at The Oaks Mall Hallmark, said that 
Hallmark’s customers are attached to the in-store experience.“I think the customers we have like com-
ing in here,” she said, “because the custom-ers that we’ve had have been here since we opened.”
After almost 40 years of business, most of 
Hallmark’s customers are regulars. 
But the store will be closing at the end of 
the month  due to high rent costs, said store manager Melissa Herman.
The entire store is now 25 percent off, and 
all Christmas merchandise is 70 percent off.
While the Hallmark Gold Crown store will 
be closing, new stores will be arriving.
Oaks Mall spokeswoman Kristal Kelly 
could not comment on which retailer will be replacing the Hallmark store, but she did say an H&M will be arriving at the mall within the near future.
“We’re very excited about who’s coming,” 
Kelly said, although H&M was the only store she could confirm.
Kelly said shoppers will notice that a cou-
ple of stores have barricades up, which means they are being remodeled. 
Those stores are still open but have been 
temporarily relocated within the mall until their original sites are complete.
PacSun and Gator Mania are among the 
temporarily displaced stores, and Kelly said Bath & Body Works is next up on the renova-tion list.
But even with the renovations and new 
stores, for student shoppers, Gainesville’s mall is far away from campus, said Alan Gary, a second-year UF sport management 
graduate student.
“They’re going to have to make a big push 
to try to pull people to that side of town if they 
want to keep going,” said Gary, 23.
Gary, who went to the mall Saturday to 
get sized for a suit, said he prefers to shop in store because it’s easier to see how clothes fit.  However, he said he doesn’t like making the trip to The Oaks Mall, and he only goes there 
once or twice a semester.
Going online to shop is still a last resort 
for Gary because it’s difficult to find the right 
size, and he said he’s not a huge fan of tech-nology.  
Unless there are major holiday or close-out 
sales, Schutz won’t be found at the mall.
“I’m not going to go all the way to the store 
to buy something small,” Schutz said. “I just 
click.  And done.”Study: Shopping malls are threatened by online retailers
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TOKYO — The wife of 
slain Japanese hostage Kenji 
Goto said Monday she was devastated but proud of her husband, who was beheaded 
by Islamic State extremists.
“I remain extremely proud 
of my husband, who reported 
the plight of people in con-flict areas like Iraq, Somalia and Syria,” she said.
“It was his passion to 
highlight the effects on or-dinary people, especially 
through the eyes of children, 
and to inform the rest of us of the tragedies of war,” she said.
Goto left for Syria in late 
October just a few weeks af-ter the birth of the couple’s youngest daughter. Soon af-ter, he was captured by the 
militants.Appalled and saddened 
by news of Goto following the release of a video show-
ing his killing, purportedly by the Islamic State group, Japan has ordered height-ened security precautions at airports and at Japanese fa-cilities overseas, such as em-bassies and schools.
The government also has 
called on all journalists and others in areas near the con-flict to withdraw, given the risk of further kidnappings or other threats.
Until now, Japan had not 
become directly embroiled in the fight against the militants.
The U.N. Security Council 
issued a statement Sunday demanding “the immediate, safe and unconditional re-lease of all those who are kept hostage” by the Islamic State group.Japanese journalist 
beheaded by ISIL
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man early Fri-
day after he reportedly shoved an officer outside of 
Balls Bar.
Just after 2 a.m., Damien Lee Fey Gilliams, 22, was 
outside the bar — located at 1716 West University Ave. — with his father. Gilliams then got in front of a passer-by and threatened to hurt them, according to a police report.
A police officer walked Gilliams away from the bar 
and told him to leave. But as the officer walked away, Gilliams pushed his chest. The officer then tackled Gilliams and told him to put his hands behind his back, but Gilliams refused and tried to get away. The officer eventually used a Taser on Gilliams after mul-tiple warnings and instructions to stop.
Gilliams was taken to the Alachua County Jail on a 
charge of battery on a police officer. He was released Saturday morning on his own recognizance.
      
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office arrested a 
Hawthorne man for reportedly assaulting a deputy Saturday afternoon after he was asked to leave a fire rescue truck.
At about 3:30 p.m., Bobby Rutledge, 54, was ap-
proached by deputies after his wife was involved in a traffic accident on 12200 SE Hawthorne Road, accord-ing to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Office report. 
After his wife, who suffered minor injuries, was 
taken into a fire rescue truck, Rutledge was given per-mission to see her. But when paramedics asked him to leave, he refused.
He then turned around and yelled, “This is my 
f*****g wife.”
Rutledge continued to ignore deputy commands 
and pushed the deputy off the truck, according to the report. 
Rutledge then punched the left side of the officer’s 
face, hitting his neck and eye.
Sims showed Rutledge his Taser and told him to lie 
on the ground. Rutledge did, and he was then taken to the Alachua County Jail on a charge of battery on law enforcement.
Rutledge was released Sunday at 2 p.m. after pay-
ing a $2,000 bond.Weekend: Two batteries on officers
SLATE , from page 1Selected candidates to 
be notified by Wed.“They’re going to have to make a 
big push.”
Alan Gary
UF sports management graduate studentMONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Going Pro
Carl Feliciano, 21, attempts an ollie over a ﬂ  ight of stairs on Satur-
day afternoon next to Gator Dining while ﬁ  lming a video to show to potential skate sponsors.
LOCAL
AMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Avid readers throughout 
Gainesville had the opportunity to 
meet a distinguished author Satur-day.
A collaboration between The 
Opinionated Ladies Book Club of Gainesville and the Alachua County Library District brought ReShonda Tate Billingsley to the Headquarters Library to commemorate the book club’s seventh anniversary.
Billingsley, a national best-
selling author and NAACP Image Award recipient, started in the 
journalism industry as a paparazzi 
member for The National Enquirer. She is now the author of more than 35 books. Her second novel, “Let the Church Say Amen,” was op-tioned for a movie and will be com-ing out this fall.
As the last African American 
working in her division of the pub-lishing house Simon & Schuster, 
Billingsley also co-founded the 
publishing company Brown Girl Books.
Brown Girl Books publishes 
new authors, she said. So far, the company has 15 authors and just started a children’s division.
“We are called Brown Girl Books 
because two brown girls started it, 
but we have writers of all races and 
all walks of life,” she said.
Kinnidie White, an aspiring au-
thor and senior at Gainesville High School, attended the program with hopes of getting Billingsley to con-sider her book. At the end of the event, the two met.
“She was really kind. She com-
plimented and congratulated me,”  the 17-year-old said. “I was freaking 
out. She bought one of my books 
and asked me to sign it for her.”
Billingsley spoke about her writ-
ing process, her many rejections in the industry and even the chal-lenge of getting people to see that her books are for everyone, not just African-Americans.
“I’m really blessed to be living 
my dream,” she said. “Every min-ute you spend talking about what you don’t have time to do could be spent doing it.”Best-selling author visits local library
Amaury Sablon / Alligator
ReShonda Tate Billingsley signs a book for a fan Saturday afternoon in the Alachua County Library 
Headquarters Library. Billingsley was at the library as a speaker for The Opinionated Ladies Book Club of Gainesville’s seventh anniversary.
JUSTIN ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Measles cases are on the rise, but 
for now Florida is in the clear.
As of press time, the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention 
have conﬁ  rmed 84 cases of measles across 14 states — not including Florida — since Jan. 1. The sud-
den increase in cases nationwide is 
heavily linked to an initial exposure at Disney California Adventure Park, according to the CDC.
The number of conﬁ  rmed cases 
already tops the U.S. annual aver-age of 60, even though the disease was declared eliminated from the U.S. in 2000. In 2014, the CDC re-
ported 644 cases of measles — a 
jump from the 188 cases in 2013.
Ann Arvin, dean of research at 
the Stanford School of Medicine, said the disease still remains preva-lent because U.S. residents opt not to get the vaccination. But the vac-
cination is highly effective and has 
extensive availability, she said.
The outbreak is alarming to the medical community because chil-dren who contract the disease are at risk for unpredictable medical com-plications, no matter how healthy they may be, she said.
Dr. Robert Lawrence, an associ-
ate professor in the UF College of 
Medicine, said the reason for the 
rise in cases is that the disease is highly contagious to unvaccinated people.
“Measles is one of the most eas-
ily spread viruses — way more easily spread than Ebola,” he said. “Therefore, if individuals are being exposed, they don’t need to have a 
dramatically obvious exposure.”
To combat any potential cases, 
the Florida Department of Health 
is encouraging people to stay up-to-date on their immunizations. Health care providers should con-sider measles in any diagnosis if a patient shows suggestive symp-toms, Lawerence said.
The CDC will make an ofﬁ  cial 
update today to accurately reﬂ  ect the number of measles cases na-tionwide.  Florida remains spot-free of measles despite national spike
‘01 ‘14 ‘12 ‘15 ‘13 ‘11 ‘10 ‘09 ‘08 ‘07 ‘06 ‘05 ‘04 ‘03 ‘02Measles Cases in the U.S. (2001 - Present)
0200400600800
116
445337665543140
71 63220
55187644
84
* Measle cases are through Jan. 29.
Source: CDC: Notiﬁ  able Diseases and Mortality Tables (Jan. 30, 2015),” “Documentation and Veriﬁ  cation of Measles, Rubella, and Congenital Ru-
bella Syndrome Elimination in the Region of the Americas (March 28, 2013)”Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org58 TOTAL VOTES53% YES
47% NOFriday’s question: Do you pay attention 
to restaurant health inspection ratings?Today’s question: Katy Perry or Missy Elliott? Headscarf or not, media focus misplaced
Last week President Obama and first lady Michelle 
Obama made a stop in Saudi Arabia to pay their respects to the late king and meet the country’s 
new ruler. 
While there were more interesting topics brought 
up in the meeting that could have been covered, many 
news outlets in the U.S. have decided to focus on the 
fact that Mrs. Obama decided to forego the headscarf, 
just as Laura Bush, Hillary Clinton and Queen Elizabeth II have done before her. In fact, although it is Saudi law that women cover their heads outside the home, foreign women are not required to do so. So why the “uproar”?
Phrases like “international debate,” “disrespectful” 
and “self-orchestrated” were thrown around in the 
mainstream media. What the rest of us have been debat-ing is: Do these reporters pay attention to what was go-ing on, or are they creating some sort of gossip storm?
It is true, women going out in public without cover-
ing their heads — as well as driving a car, voting and going out without a male chaperone — is typically for-bidden by Saudi law. But if this is such an outrage, why did they even allow Mrs. Obama to appear in the same 
room with the dignitaries? 
Surely there must be some sort of detailing or secu-
rity prior to these meetings that would eliminate any 
conflicts. But no one stopped her, and the event was 
televised. Could it be that the Saudis are more under-
standing of our customs than we give them credit for? Is it possible that we have once again been swallowed up by a sea of babble from the mainstream media?
Back in 2010, Mrs. Obama felt it was appropriate to 
wear a headscarf when she visited a mosque in Indone-sia, but for the rest of the trip she did not don one. She could just as easily have done the same on this visit to Saudi Arabia, but neither law nor her own convictions 
forced her to do so. 
While first ladies are typically held to a higher stan-dard than many others, she also 
has a right to her own actions, and quite truthfully, she did 
nothing wrong. 
While she did not wear a 
headscarf, she was very modestly dressed, showing 
nothing but her hands below her neckline. Given Mrs. 
Obama’s impeccable sense of style and reputation of 
never going amiss at galas and ceremonies, one almost wishes she would have been as “groundbreaking” and “bold” as the media has portrayed her.
So, was the White House deliberately sending a sig-
nal to the Saudis about how women should be treated? Was it just a big slap in the face to Saudi culture? Is blue her color? Was Mrs. Obama’s outfit way too conserva-tive and submissive to the cruel sexist laws of Saudi 
Arabia? Many people seem to think some or all of these 
things.
Frida Ghitis, a world affairs columnist for the Miami 
Herald, pointed out in an interview with CNN, “Can you imagine if she had worn the headscarf, what the 
outcry would be in the United States and the rest of the 
world?” While there doesn’t seem to have been so much of a disturbance regarding the first lady’s choice of out-fit, this side of the world has decided that this would be 
its focus on this diplomatic visit — not U.S. and Saudi 
relations. 
Not the lowered prices of gas. Nope, instead the 
mainstream media has focused on whether a woman decided to do what women in that country do every 
day. 
Had Michelle Obama worn the headscarf the com-
motion would have been just as loud, but only on the 
other side of the spectrum. People always have some-
thing to say.
Sol Canal is a UF English junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.No matter which 
party, consider 
slating
Are you excited about the upcoming Student Govern-
ment elections? Eager to make a change? Do you get 
stoked when you think about passing bills and political 
intrigue?
Perhaps you should consider running for a seat in the Stu-
dent Senate.
Unlike running for city, state or national office, becoming a 
candidate for SG is a fairly open and easy process. You don’t 
have to shake the right hands and ceaselessly stroke the proper party apparati for years to get into a fruitful position. For SG, all 
you have to do is qualify, then slate.
What, pray tell, does that process entail?
Qualifying and slating started Sunday, but if you haven’t 
gone yet, don’t worry. The process will continue today from 9 
a.m. to 6:30 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. All that’s re-
quired of you is to head over to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at some point within those time periods.
In the ballroom, you’ll be asked to fill out paperwork and dis-
play your Gator 1 Card — you know, to prove you’re a student 
here. That’s the “qualifying” bit — proving you’re eligible to run 
for a seat. When the paperwork has been filled and your identity as a student has been confirmed, you’ll be able to slate, which is SG parlance for making the choice of which party you want to 
run with.
There are several political parties to choose from. Of course, 
the Swamp and Access parties are the clear forerunners. The 
number of candidates who slated Sunday are divided almost evenly between them, but keep in mind: They’re not the only 
parties to choose from. Seven other registered parties are avail-
able for slating, so if you’re feeling light-hearted, consider slat-ing for the Pants Party or the Keg Party.
Running for office is a great honor and privilege, no matter 
which party you may end up slating for. Arguably, running for 
a seat is an even more important linchpin of our democracy than 
voting, seeing as the electorate needs candidates to vote for.
It’s for this reason that we at the Alligator urge you to go out 
and slate. It’s for the good of the student body and the university that you do. Participation at this level is the highest service a 
person can give.
Seriously, we hate to get all cheesy on you, but this is im-
portant. We’ll stoop to hurling “Be the change you wish to see 
in the world,” and all that inspirational babble at you if that’s 
what it takes. Now, more than ever, individual participation can 
help make a positive difference. We’d do it ourselves, but we’re pretty sure the journalism ethics gods would smite us where we sit if we did. 
Sure, it’d be much easier to smugly declare it all to be a rack-
et, but that attitude won’t accomplish anything at all. But going for a seat? That’s a different story.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSol Canal
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7
On Friday, the politi-
cal world was rocked when former presiden-
tial nominee Mitt Romney an-nounced he would not be seek-ing another run at the White House. During a conference call to donors and supporters, Romney said: “After putting considerable thought into making another run for presi-dent, I’ve decided it’s best to give other lead-ers in the party the opportunity to become our next nominee.” He went on to say he be-lieves he could beat the eventual democratic nominee but has decided not to run because he’s had his chance, and it’s time to move on. And I couldn’t agree more.
With the 2016 race largely focused on Mitt 
Romney for the past few weeks, not a lot of attention has been dedicated to presumed Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton. Ac-tually, if you try to look into what has been happening with the former secretary of state lately, you won’t be able to find any news since the new year. And she wants it that way.
Many political strategists and commenta-
tors have said possible presidential contend-er Jeb Bush is employing an “invisible man” strategy, which involves staying away from the public eye and living behind closed doors to make calls to high-profile donors. Staying out of the limelight allows Bush to avoid pitfalls that often come along with running for president, such as making a Biden-esque gaffe that the media would run away with, or peaking too soon in popularity and then becoming yesterday’s news. Bush may be us-ing this invisible man strategy, but Clinton is perfecting it.
Clinton is perhaps the smartest political 
figure in America right now, as she is using the Republicans’ political circus to her ad-vantage. While the GOP throws out names of who might run for president, including former Gov. Sarah Palin and Donald Trump, Clinton is basking in the rhetoric that does all the dirty work for her. Republicans can’t seem to help themselves when it comes to bashing each other, even before the prima-ries begin. They did it in the 2012 primaries, which brought out the skeletons in their po-litical closets without President Obama hav-ing to roll up his sleeves and get involved.
The same is happening now. And I thought elephants were sup-posed to be wise.
In addition to having the Re-
publican showcase on display, Clinton is using this time to so-
lidify her victory by securing vast amounts of money and support, with 2016 undoubt-edly forecasted to be the year with the largest campaign finance expenses in American his-tory. Recently, the Koch Brothers pledged to spend $889 billion on Republican candidates, which will only serve to help Clinton, as she will use this as a fear tactic to motivate her donors. Not only will Clinton be able to raise unprecedented levels of money over the next few months, but she can continue to build up her team and have some of the sharpest minds in the campaign world at the forefront of her operation.
An exclusive from Politico last week said 
that Clinton is considering postponing her announcement for president from April to July, because she feels no rush to announce just yet. 
Waiting can have its advantages, includ-
ing the ones I’ve already mentioned. She’ll also spend less time on the presidential stage, which means less air time for the past trans-gressions many consider to be huge politi-cal skeletons. These include her indifference toward the embassy attack in Benghazi, and statements she made about how broke she and Bill Clinton were after leaving the White House, even though finances were the least of their worries. Clinton is definitely a candi-date who cannot relate to the everyday strug-gles of regular Americans, and she wants to delay that realization from the general public for as long as she can.
Clinton is the puppet master in the politi-
cal arena right now and has the Republicans on strings going around making outrageous statements and dooming themselves even before the year is out. 
If Republicans want to shift the tide, they 
need to focus all their energy and comments toward Clinton and show their base they are committed to electing a Republican in 2016, regardless of who that may be. If the GOP continues to be ambivalent and make reck-less decisions, they will stay on course for another Clinton White House.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political 
science senior. His column appears on Mondays.
MIA Hillary prepping for 
2016 as Republicans stumble Column
“I’m just here so I 
won’t get fined.”
These were the 
words Seattle Seahawks’ running back Marshawn 
Lynch repeated a total of 29 times dur-
ing Super Bowl Media Day on Tuesday.
After the NFL informed the star run-
ning back he would be fined $500,000 if he did not make an appearance at Me-dia Day, Lynch made himself available for all of 4 minutes and 51 seconds, set-ting a timer on his phone.
Lynch has made it clear what he 
thinks of the media. He acts like he is above the inquiries into his performanc-es on the field, even as his teammates and coaches face the same questions on a daily basis without complaint.
Lynch has been fined by the NFL on 
countless occasions. His particular dis-taste for reporters and TV cameras has resulted in bad publicity aimed toward 
Lynch, the Seattle Seahawks and the 
NFL for allowing his behavior to go on as it has.
Many NFL players, including 
Lynch’s teammates, have since voiced their support, backing Lynch’s insis-tence that being a professional athlete should not involve answering tedious questions from reporters.
But being an athlete in the age of 
social media and technology is not exclusively about performing on the field, track or court anymore. Athletes are public figures who are required to make themselves available. They hold press conferences and grant interviews, fielding questions about every detail of their lives.
While there are many professional 
athletes who would rather spend their free time doing anything other than sit-ting behind a microphone, there are a handful who embrace the spotlight and enjoy the media’s scrutinizing eye.
Lynch’s Seattle Seahawks teammate 
Richard Sherman thrives on the media’s fascination with his every word. During 
his press conferences, part of the fun is 
waiting to hear what Seattle’s best cor-nerback has to say. Sherman’s love for himself is what the media cannot get enough of, proven by his infamous rant during last 
season’s NFC Champion-
ship game in which he declared himself to be the 
best cornerback in the league.
Richard Sherman might be one of the 
most conceited players in the history of the NFL, but at least he embraces it. He isn’t afraid to use the media to his ad-vantage. He doesn’t shy away. Lynch, on the other hand, has not only upset members of the media but has alienated some of his fans by shunning all media 
attention that could be used by fans to 
feel closer to the star athlete.
For a young kid looking for a role 
model, Marshawn Lynch is not any-one’s first choice.
If Lynch is so dissatisfied with the 
grueling media availability schedules athletes have to comply with, he should take it up with the Players’ Union or the 
league office. If he can get other players 
to act with him, maybe something can be done to reduce the media’s involve-ment and presence after practices and games.
Instead of being proactive, however, 
Lynch has chosen to pave his own path, one which will lead him absolutely no-where.
My argument is this: Lynch and all 
other professional athletes chose the ca-reers they did. They chose to be in the spotlight, to be in the public eye and to potentially become “celebrities” in the world of sports. If Lynch dislikes the media so much, why on Earth did he think being a superstar running back in the NFL would be a wise career move?
Members of the media chose their 
careers, too. They have a job to do just 
like Lynch does. It is a journalist’s re-
sponsibility to gather information and 
to question until he or she gets answers.
I am aware that the relationship 
between the media and high-profile figures is not always a perfect one, but Marshawn Lynch should, at the very least, have the decency to treat the me-dia with the respect it deserves.
Erica Brown is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.Famous athletes should 
respect media, not shun itColumn
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org
Erica Brown
opinions@alligator.orgCHRIS WATKINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Finding your way around 
campus just got easier thanks to 
a new app on campus.
Earlier this month, UF was 
added to the FindMyClass mo-bile app, a GPS navigation app, which allows users to choose a 
building on campus as their des-
tination. 
Once selected, the app will 
draw a line from the user’s cur-rent location to the end point.
The app also features turn-
by-turn driving directions and campus dining locations.
FindMyClass was created by 
Michael Schmidt in 2011 when he was a student at the Univer-sity of South Florida. 
“My brother and I were al-
ways lost on campus,” Schmidt 
said. “Even in my senior year, I 
would get lost and end up wan-dering around campus.”
After taking several app-
building classes, he and his brother entered and won a Mi-crosoft-sponsored app develop-ment contest with their idea to help fellow students navigate 
the USF campus.
FindMyClass now includes 
30 college campuses nationwide. 
It is available for a free trial 
download on both Apple and 
Android mobile devices. 
There is an option to pur-
chase three more searches for 99 cents or unlimited searches for 
$1.99.
When Lulu Melhem trans-
ferred to UF from Miami Dade 
College, she said she would’ve 
found a campus GPS app help-
ful.
After recently downloading the app, Melhem, a 20-year-old UF criminology senior, said she can see freshmen and transfer students getting use out of it.
“It’s really good,” Melhem 
said. “It moves along with you.”
8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
Sydney Dixon / Alligator
Tower Trumpeters
A group of UF undergraduate students rehearse a brass quintet in front of Century Tower on Friday 
afternoon.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Toon me
Caricaturist Dominic Levasseur of Orlando draws chemical engi-neering sophomore Scott Fenton, 19, on Friday night during Rock the Block on the Reitz Union breezeway.
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
With black paint, young 
Adam Cooper painted over a 
purple Easy Bake Oven and transformed it into his first oven. Fifteen years later, he catered 
for Rep. Ted Yoho’s re-election 
party at Gator City’s nightclub, Envy. Today, the 25-year-old has doubled Gator City’s food sales in the seven months he’s worked as a chef there.
This increase in sales has 
caused the restaurant to go smoke-free. When more than 10 percent of a bar’s sales come 
from food, it is considered a res-
taurant that has to abide by the Florida Clean Indoor Air Act.
Originally from Haw-
thorne, a 20-minute drive from Gainesville, Cooper said his mom and the Food Network taught him how to cook “any-
thing I could get my hands on.”  
“I always wanted to eat good 
food, so if I cooked it, my broth-
er wouldn’t have the chance to eat it,” he said, laughing.
In 2010, Cooper earned an associate degree in culinary arts at the Lincoln Culinary Institute, formerly the Florida Culinary Institute, in West Palm Beach. 
After graduating, he worked 
as a line cook at Embers and Mother’s Pub & Grill. He also 
worked as a part-time bouncer 
at Gator City, but his goal was always to get into the kitchen. 
This summer, he was hired 
as the sports bar’s chef, his first position of management.
Cooper said he’s heard posi-
tive comments about the food from customers. Since becom-
ing chef, Cooper has “put forth 
a quality menu,” said Jon Gold, Gator City’s general manager.
Gold said Cooper is one of 
his best employees because he is creative and receptive.
“He makes it easy for me,” 
Gold said.
Cooper has added new 
menu items, such as pork prod-ucts and loaded fries, and cut wait times in half during foot-ball season.
“I spend most of my time in 
here, whether I’m working or not,” he said.Chef doubles food 
sales at Gator CityCAMPUSUF added to campus GPS appMONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Gainesville Throwbacks
Feb. 1, 1979
Twelve of 15 stress test points on two seating sections of 
the Stephen C. O’Connell Center failed to meet national con-crete safety guidelines, a report showed. The chief engineer of the project recommended that the seating sections be re-
installed because he said the guidelines did not apply to the 
uniquely designed mass-seating facility.
Feb. 3, 1988A group of protestors gathered at Gainesville’s federal 
building downtown, chanted “Free Nicaragua” and burned a replica of a Sandinista flag at a pro-Contra-Aid rally. Mem-bers of the Student Republicans hoped the protest would in-fluence Rep. Buddy MacKay to vote for a $43 million aid pack-
age for Nicaraguan rebels. “We’re concerned that if the bill is 
overturned, that democracy will be dead in Nicaragua,” said Jeff Spaulding, a member of the Student Republicans.
Feb. 2, 1998One week after College Republican’s former chairman, 
Charles Hart, resigned, the club’s treasurer, Stephen O’Grady, also resigned without explanation. This was just another twist in a long-running personal and legal battle among Hart, 
O’Grady and the College Republicans. Grady had unsuccess-
fully tried to impeach Hart for forging a signature on a fund-ing request and had also accused Hart of getting drunk at a club-related party in Washington, D.C., then running around naked.
Jan. 30, 2009 Sam Knowles finished his wooden, 7-and-a-half foot tall 
carving of the Heisman trophy winner, complete with a Su-
perman cape and the Bible verse John 3:16 written on his face. 
Knowles said it took him five days to carve the “Treebow” sculpture with a chainsaw and paint the tribute to the Gator legend. “I feel like I know him,” Knowles said. “I’ve been star-ing at him for so long.”
— ALEX HARRIS and EMILY CARDINAL
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Protein Puzzle
Microbiology and nutrition junior Reema Kola, 20, and materials science and engineering junior Casey 
Gilliams, 20, arrange pieces of a puzzle at the Creativity in the Arts and Sciences event in the Reitz Union on Saturday. The puzzle was part of Kola’s entry “Interactions within Innate Immune Responses.” 
NATION
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A 
3-year-old boy found a hand-
gun in his mother’s purse and fired just one shot that wound-ed both his parents at an Al-
buquerque motel on Saturday, 
police said.
According to investigators, 
the toddler apparently reached for an iPod but found the load-ed weapon. Police believe the shooting to be accidental.
The bullet first struck his fa-
ther in the buttock and then hit 
the right shoulder of his moth-
er, who is eight months preg-nant, police said. 
His 2-year-old sister was 
present but unhurt.Both injuries are non-life 
threatening, authorities said.
Justin Reynolds said he and 
his girlfriend, Monique Villes-cas, were getting ready to order pizza when the toddler fired the shot.
“It was like if I was to get up 
shake your hand and sat back down. That’s how fast it hap-pened,” Reynolds said. ”All of a sudden we heard a gun go off 
and the next minute I realized 
my girlfriend was bleeding. Then, I sat down and realized I was shot, too.”
Reynolds said he called 911 
and grabbed some towels to try to stop her bleeding.
“I was more worried about 
my girlfriend than myself and anything else that was go-ing on. And my son because I didn’t know if he had shot him-
self or not,” said Reynolds. “He 
was shocked and crying. It was traumatizing.”
Police said in a statement 
that the father was treated and released, while the mother was hospitalized in stable condi-tion.
Police said child care offi-
cials are taking care of the chil-dren.
Jonathan Hutson, a spokes-
man for the Washington-based Brady Campaign and Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said the shooting should serve as a reminder to all parents to keep guns locked away securely.Toddler wounds parents with gun THE TREND STARTED AT OTHER 
UNIVERSITIES.
CAREL LAJARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are flooding social media with 
their personal stories using the hashtag #UF-
Backstory.
Members of a UF Christian student organiza-
tion CRU, or Campus Crusaders for Christ, are 
sharing how God has changed their lives and 
tagging the posts with #UFBackstory. So far the videos have spread to 45 countries.
The hashtag has been used at other universi-
ties, and it was through a Florida State Univer-sity student that the UF backstory coordinator, 20-year-old Maryann Magid, heard about it.
“When I heard about it, it was something I 
really wanted to do at UF,” the behavioral and 
cognitive neuroscience junior said. “My friends 
at FSU said they had some really great reactions and a lot of people viewed the videos.”
Magid said the CRU staff was hoping for at 
least 50 videos to be uploaded, while she herself was praying for 100. Since she last checked there have been 182 videos uploaded and more than 155,000 views combined.
Erica Bahrenburg, a 20-year-old UF telecom-
munication junior and a leader in her commu-
nity group at CRU, is one of the people who has 
already shared her backstory.
“I was a little frightened because I didn’t 
know what the repercussions were going to be,” Bahrenburg said, “but I think it’s important to share why we believe in this and why this is so important in our lives.”
She said she hopes people who watch the 
videos think about how Christians really are ver-
sus what they thought they were like.
“Backstory is for everyone,” Bahrenburg 
said. “I think our testimonies say that hey, we’re 
human, we don’t always do the right things, sometimes we mess up, but this is something that I have in my life that makes it worth living.”Students share #UFBackstories 
Alligator Archives
A statue of UF quarterback Tim Tebow carved out of a dead 
tree stood outside of Ballyhoo Grill on University Avenue. The statue included such details as a Bible verse on the eyeblack, a Heisman Trophy and a cape.
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 2, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY. FEBRUARY 2, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-1202 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
2001 Honda Civic EX - 105596 miles - $4670 
Rated "Good Condition" by Kelley Blue Book. 1-Owner vehicle. Clean CARFAX. Automatic, sun roof... email: shake.off@gmail.com    2-3-15-3-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-6-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY. FEBRUARY 2, 2015
Tutor needed for Algebra II
dual enrolled high school student. Female 
preferred,   $15/hr. Please email tboland97@
gmail.com 2-2-4-14 
Uf Beef Unit Needs P/T Farm Help.  
UF/SFe student, or High School sr.  Tractor/
cattle exp. preferred.  Weekends/holidays 
required.  Housing available.  352-538-1401    
2-4-5-14
Operation Catnip has an opening for a full-
time Volunteer Coordinator!Job duties include: recruitment, training, and  supervision, of volunteer workforce. Must be highly organized, comfortable managing un-paid staff and able to work and communicate with diverse stakeholders. Volunteers come from all walks - the local community includes the college of veterinary medicine, university student population of 50k and a county pop-ulation of 250k. Anticipated salary of $26k. Please go to the following link to learn more and to apply for this position:http://sheltermedicine.vetmed.ufl.edu/about-us/employment/position-opening-volunteer-coordinator/     2-6-5-14
Immediate opening for a PT Medical Front Office person. Multi-tasking and accuracy is a MUST! Please email your resume to trc0102@yahoo.com    2-6-15-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Oliver Landert clinched 
No. 17 Florida’s 4-3 win against No. 4 UCLA on Sunday. Read more at 
alligatorSports.org.Recruiting
Jacob Tilghman (6-foot-3, 220 pounds, Daytona Beach, Mainland High) verbally commited to UF during a campus visit. Tilghman played tight end and long snapper.Men’s golf opens Spring season today
The Florida men’s golf team will participate in the two-day Sea Best Invitational to open its 2015 Spring season. UF finished sixth in the tournament last year.GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
The development of Chris 
Walker may take longer than ex-
pected, even if the ceiling is high-
er than most.
Casual fans who expected 
Walker’s 12-point performance 
against Alabama on Tuesday to be 
the electricity that lights the bulb 
of potential that dwells within the sophomore were more than likely disappointed that Walker disappeared against Arkansas in 
Florida’s 57-56 win over the Ra-
zorbacks on Saturday.
After scoring 12 points on 6-of-
8 shooting against the Crimson 
Tide, Walker tallied a lone point 
against Arkansas.
Coach Billy Donovan said the 
decrease in production and min-utes is relevant with Walker’s in-
dividual work ethic.
For now, Donovan emphasized 
that people will need to be patient 
with Walker’s development.
“It’s a process with Chris 
Walker,” Donovan said. “You think all of a sudden the Alabama game is going to ignite him into Kevin Garnett, it’s like not hap-pening. He didn’t take a step back. He didn’t play a great game, he didn’t have a lot of minutes. I don’t know if he took a step back, 
that’s who he’s always been.”
When Walker isn’t getting the 
looks he wants under the basket, 
he tends to drift away from the 
basket. When that happens, he no 
longer affects the game in a posi-tive way.
Figuring out how to benefit the 
team without the ball is just the 
next step in Walker’s staircase of 
basketball growth.
A player who has recently 
figured out how to impact the 
game when his shot isn’t falling 
is junior Michael Frazier, whose free throws gave the Gators a vic-tory when it seemed like they had blown a sizable lead in the final 
minutes.
Donovan said that previously 
when Frazier’s shot hasn’t fallen, 
he has drifted away and become 
down on himself.
But Frazier has recently put 
himself in position to score and 
expand his game, like he did when he grabbed the offensive 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Chris Walker dribbles during Florida’s 57-56 win against Arkansas on Saturday in the O’Connell 
Center. Walker, a sophomore center, scored just one point in the Gators win.
Chris Walker still progressing, needs to develop work ethic
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
 KAYLA LEWIS RECORDED HER THIRD DOUBLE-DOUBLE OF THE SEASON.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
The Florida women’s basketball team over-
came a slow start to defeat Vanderbilt 67-58 on 
Sunday in Nashville, Tennessee.
The Gators (11-11, 3-6 Southeastern Con-
ference) were efficient from all parts of the floor, hitting 51.2 percent of their shots from the field and making a season-high 94.8 per-cent of their free throws.
Redshirt senior Kayla Lewis posted her 
third double-double of the season by scoring a team-high 18 points and 11 rebounds on Sat-urday. Lewis has posted double-digit scoring efforts in 13 games this season.
Cassie Peoples (11 points), Carlie Needles 
(10 points) and January Miller (10 points) also scored in double-digits for the Gators while Ronni Williams — who fouled out with 5:28 left to play — also added nine points off the bench.The Gators start-
ed the game with a 6-0 deficit before going on a 16-3 run spanning 5:13 to take 
a 16-9 lead over the Commodores (12-10, 3-6 SEC) with 10:59 remaining in the first half.
Florida never trailed for the remainder of 
the game.
The Gators went into halftime with a 32-
22 advantage, marking the first time in SEC play that Florida led at halftime by at least 10 
points.
UF started the second half on a 5-0 run off 
of two Miller free throws and a three-pointer 
by Peoples to take a 15-point lead — its largest lead of the game ‚ before Vanderbilt began to claw its way back.
The Commodores, led by sophomore 
forward Marqu’es Webb (17 points, 12 re-bounds), cut the Gators’ lead to as little as five points (43-38) with 10:14 remaining in the game, but could not complete the comeback.
Florida has a midweek bye before playing 
No. 6 Tennessee in the O’Connell Center on Sunday at 2 p.m.Florida women’s basketball 
tops Vanderbilt on the road
 
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
 There were two playoff games, and 
then it was over.
Two losses put an end to Florida 
baseball’s 2014 season, one that saw 
UF surpass outside expectations only to stumble in the games that mattered 
the most.
But this year, the expectations are 
higher and the personnel has im-
proved, especially on the mound.
2014 Perfect Game National Fresh-
man of the Year Logan Shore is now a sophomore, and after boasting a 2.16 ERA as a freshman, even he has set higher standards for the team and 
himself.
Shore went 7-4 last season and became Florida’s 
Friday-night starter 
midway through the season, but gave up 
16 hits and 7 runs in 
the last two games he played, both postsea-son losses.
“It’s obviously 
pretty cool to see how last year ended out,” Shore said. 
“But, personally, I didn’t finish the 
best last year.”
Each player agrees — UF not only 
thinks it can finish better than last year, but it expects to. 
And maybe the biggest determi-
nant of Florida’s success this season 
will be its 17-player pitching rotation, Gators plan to utilize 
pitching depth in 2015 BASEBALL
UF W omen’s 
Bask etballWalker scored one point on Saturday
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15Shore
14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Aaron Albright / Alligator Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
TOP LEFT: Kasey Hill goes up for a layup during Flor -
ida’s win against Arkansas on Saturday. Hill scored 
seven points against the Razorbacks.
MIDDLE LEFT: Freshman forward Devin Robinson 
hits a layup on Saturday. Robinson scored three points in the Gators’ win against the Razorbacks.
BOTTOM LEFT: UF gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn 
celebrates with freshman Ericha Fassbender after Fassbender’s balance beam routine on Friday. Fass-bender scored a 9.825 on the event.
MIDDLE RIGHT: Junior Bridgette Caquatto per-
forms her floor exercise routine during Florida’s win against Georgia on Friday. Caquatto, who is the anchor of UF’s floor lineup, scored a 9.925 in the event.
BOTTOM RIGHT: Senior Kytra Hunter performs her 
floor exercise on Friday. Hunter scored a season-high 9.975 on the floor en route to winning her fourth straight all-around title this season. Her 39.675 all-around score is the highest in the NCAA this season.
WEEKEND
WRAP-UP MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Junior shooting guard Michael Frazier II dribbles during Florida’s 57-
56 win against Arkansas on Saturday in the O’Connell Center.
RECRUITING
JORDAN MCPHERSON and  
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writers @J_McPherson1126,  
@Morgan_Moriarty
Florida’s offensive line — arguably the 
thinnest position heading into 2015 — just 
became two players deeper.
Three-star offensive lineman Richerd De-
sir-Jones (6-foot-3, 292 pounds, St. Thomas Aquinas High, Ft. Lauderdale) and three-star offensive tackle recruit Fredrick Johnson (6-
foot-8, 285 pounds, Royal Palm Beach High, 
West Palm Beach, Florida) announced their verbal commitments to UF on Saturday via Twitter.Desir-Jones sent out a string of six tweets 
from his personal account (@Chosen1_live75) between 4:33 p.m. and 4:51 p.m. Saturday starting with “(sic) University of Florida” and ending with “All thanks to my family, 
my coaches, and my teammates. They’re the 
ones who make a better person and player … swamp life.”
Mere hours after Desir-Jones announced 
his verbal commitment to UF on Twitter, the 
Florida football team received a second com-
mitment on Saturday.
“UF COMMIT!!!!! #THESWAMP 
#ChompChompx2” Johnson tweeted from 
his personal account (@climax_14) at 10:09 
p.m. Saturday.Twelve minutes later, Johnson thanked 
UF offensive lineman Rod Johnson on Twit-ter for helping “make this decision easy.”
Florida also received a verbal commitment 
from two-star defensive end Luke Ancrum 
(6-foot-5, 230 pounds, Sebring High School) 
on Sunday after visiting UF on Friday.
The Gators now have 13 verbal commit-
ments — five of whom are offensive linemen — in their 2015 recruiting class. Florida’s 
class is now tied for 83rd in the country, ac-
cording to Rivals.com.
Holland narrows down list: Four-star 
linebacker Jeffery Holland (6-foot-1, 225 
pounds, Trinity Christian High, Jacksonville) 
revealed his final four schools on Saturday via Twitter.
Those schools are Ole Miss, Auburn, Flor-
ida and UCLA.
Holland is the No. 20 outside linebacker 
in the country and the No. 50 overall pros-
pect in the state of Florida, according to Ri-
vals.com.
He is expected to make his decision dur-
ing National Signing Day at 10 a.m. on 
Wednesday on ESPNU.
Scarlett decommits from UM: Four-star 
running back Jordan Scarlett (5-foot-11, 205 
pounds Fort Lauderdale, St. Thomas Aqui-nas High) announced via his Twitter account 
on Sunday that he was no longer committed 
to the University of Miami.
Verbal commitments are non-binding until 
a national letter of intent is signed on National 
Signing Day on Wednesday.Florida receives verbal commitments over weekend
Frazier showing maturity
Florida has 17 pitchers on its roster, 
only two of whom are freshmenrebound that led to the foul and 
subsequent game-winning free throws.
“The thing I was most pleased 
about with Frazier is, Michael Frazier, when he has not made shots, has allowed that to con-
sume him,” Donovan said. “When 
you’re a player and you go into a season, and you’re looking at a team that’s lost four starters from a year ago, you’re looking at your-
self as being ‘OK now I’m a junior, 
I’m the only starter coming back from last year’s team, I need to do this, I gotta be the leader, I gotta make shots, I need to do all these 
things.’ And you never, ever, 
ever as a player factor in adver-sity. And I would say that he had given zero thought to the struggle 
and the adversity this year he was 
gonna face this year. And that’s his struggle right here and now.”HOOPS , from page 13KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
 Marquis Dendy continues to prove why 
he was named to The Bowerman Trophy Pre-season Watch List.
At the Razorback Invitational, the senior 
jumper led the No. 2 Gators’ men’s track and field team to a second-place overall finish in Fayetteville, Arkansas, after winning both of 
his individual events.
Following an NCAA top-five effort in his 
triple jump victory at last week’s Rod McCravy 
Memorial Invitational, Dendy rode the mo-mentum into the Randal Tyson Track Center to 
claim another triple jump title at the Razorback 
Invite, scoring a 15.78-meter jump.
In the long jump, Dendy put on a perfor-
mance that made him the NCAA leader in the 
event with an 8.02-meter leap — the only jump 
to eclipse eight meters in 2015.
On the women’s side, the top-ranked Gators 
came out of the gates flying, as senior Brittany Harrell finished Florida’s first event — the pen-
tathlon — in second place.
Harrell’s performance earned her squad 
eight team-points en route to a runner-up over-
all finish for the UF women.
Her effort included a second-place finish in 
the 800-meter run, in which she set a personal record with a 2:12.87 finish.
With Dendy’s and Harrell’s 
wins included, the Gators 
notched seven event victories 
— including two that set the 
best marks in the country — and 11 personal records.
Junior sprinter Kyra Jef-
ferson set the nation’s fastest 
time in the 200-meter run (23.06), while junior sprinter Najee Glass marked a world’s best time in 400-meter run (45.34).
Senior jumper Ciarra Brewer, junior sprinter 
Shayla Sanders and junior mid-distance runner Ryan Schnulle took the women’s triple jump, women’s 60-meter dash and men’s 800 run, re-spectively.
Coach Mike Holloway praised his teams 
for their performance, considering the type of competition they faced.
The field consisted of 17 ranked teams, in-
cluding host and winner of both the men’s and women’s meet No. 3/5 Arkansas.
“I’m very proud of the team as a whole this 
weekend. I thought we did a great job of step-
ping up and matching the intensity of the other 
schools in the building,” Holloway said.
The Gators will go back on the road on Fri-
day when they go to Blacksburg, Virginia, for 
the Virginia Tech Elite.Dendy wins two events in Arkansas
Dendy
The Gators have 13 players in their 2015 class
complete with almost as many 
lefties as righties.
“I mean, we’re loaded,” said 
senior left-hander Bobby Poyner, who finished last season with a 5-4 record and posted a 3.47 ERA. “We got (A.J.) Puk, (Scott) Moss 
… Danny Young, Kirby Snead, 
myself, Logan Browning. We feel comfortable with all those guys around out there in any situa-tion.”The Gators have only added 
two new arms — freshmen Alex Faedo and Browning — but the consensus among the pitchers 
is experience plays a bigger role 
than quantity in the bullpen.
“We were deep last year, but 
you almost feel as if we’re a lot deeper in pitching this year just 
because of experience,” Shore 
said. 
“We have a bunch of guys 
that are coming back through last 
year and have made huge strides. 
It feels really good, especially to have six or seven lefties and six or seven righties out of the pen to come in behind me and some of the other starters.”
So far, UF’s depth on the 
mound has been noticeable in scrimmages, where players like junior outfielder Harrison Bader have been impressed with the Gators’ pitching arsenal.
“You’ll face one guy and you’ll 
get him out and then the next guy will come in. And you’re like, ah, here we go again,” Bader said of 
UF’s pitchers. “We have a lot of 
arms, a lot of guys who are as tal-ented as can be.”
BASEBALL ,   
from page 1316, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Kennedy Baker performs her ﬂ  oor exercise routine during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 
win against Georgia on Friday in the O’Connell Center. Baker scored a 9.975 on the routine — the highest ﬂ  oor exercise score by a UF freshman in program history.
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
For the 15th-consecutive 
time, Florida reigned supreme 
over Georgia.
The Gators (3-1, 2-1 South-
eastern Conference) defeated 
the Bulldogs (2-3, 2-1 SEC) 
197.600-196.950 Friday night, righting the ship which had taken a wrong turn only a week prior against Alabama. 
The difference in dedica-
tion from the team was evi-dent throughout the week, coach Rhonda Faehn said.
“The three practices we had 
this week were exceptional,” she said. “The energy level, the commitment from the ath-letes and the passion and the support of one another was there, and it showed in the competition tonight.”
Led by superb performanc-
es from freshmen Kennedy Baker and Alex McMurtry, along with the always reli-able senior Kytra Hunter, the Gators put together their most impressive competition of the year.
Baker scored the highest-
ever ﬂ  oor routine by a UF 
freshman with a 9.975, which 
was followed by another 9.975 from Hunter, sending the O’Connell Center crowd of just more than 7,000 into a deafening frenzy.
Faehn said she asked Baker 
to show off her personality, and Baker did just that — the enjoyment of the routine was evident on her face.
“I was pretty conﬁ  dent go-
ing in but I didn’t think it was going to be that good,” Baker said. “I thought I had a 10 for a second.”
McMurtry continued her 
impressive run of form by sharing the individual bars ti-tle — her ﬁ  rst title in the event — with a 9.925, along with a 9.900 on beam and a 9.875 on vault.
In the two events in which 
Florida struggled most against 
Alabama — bars and beam — 
the team showed marked im-provements, scoring 49.375s in each. 
In fact, no Gator gymnast scored lower than a 9.850 on bars.
Hunter said she and her 
teammates were determined to ﬁ  x the problems from the previous week, and they real-ized after the loss how much more they needed to work.
Within minutes of return-
ing to the team hotel in Ala-bama, Hunter called what would prove to be an emotion-
al team meeting, with players 
detailing for each other how they each needed to improve.
The difference showed 
against Georgia.
Hunter took home her 
fourth-straight all-around title with a score of 39.675 — the highest score in the country 
entering the weekend.
For Faehn, the win contin-
ues her dominance over what 
was once one of the most feared programs in collegiate gymnastics.
“It’s pretty cool,” she said. 
“When Jeremy Foley hired me, part of the interview process 
he had me speak with Mary 
Wise, and Mary Wise asked me ‘Do you think you can beat Georgia?’ and I said ‘Abso-lutely — we not only can but we’re going to beat Georgia,’ and she was like ‘Hire this girl.’
“I just had a ﬁ  rm belief that 
it was possible.”Near perfect scores from Kennedy 
Baker, Kytra Hunter lift UF over UGA
UF had three 9.975s
“I was pretty conﬁ  dent 
going in but I didn’t think 
it was going to be that 
good. I thought I had a 
10 for a second.
Kennedy Baker
UF gymnast