We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 45 MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
Florida soccer wins big on Senior Day
The Gators defeated Arkansas 4-0 in their ﬁ  nal 
home game of the regular season, pg. 14
UF professor arrested
He was secretly videotaping his daughter, pg. 3
UF students hang out, invade plaza with 
hammocks
The UF Hammock Club’s takeover event is today, pg. 5Say it loud and proud
Check out the Gainesville Pride Festival’s 
photo story, pg. 8
PEARSON FAILED TO RECRUIT 
OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF Online will terminate its contract with 
the publishing and assessment service Pearson 
Education.
UF Online Assistant Provost and Director 
Evangeline Cummings said UF notiﬁ  ed Pear-son of plans to terminate the contract in June due to Pearson’s failure to recruit more out-of-state students to UF Online. She made the ﬁ  nal 
decision last month.
Cummings said Pearson provided market-
ing, recruitment, retention, student coaching 
and free textbooks to UF Online. The decision is part of a broader review of UF Online to make sure they’re using money wisely.
“I think this is a great, exciting new chapter 
for UF Online,” she said.
Cummings said UF has paid Pearson about 
$9 million and will pay about $2 million more.  
Moving forward, UF will have its own on-
line recruitment center on campus, she said.
Cummings said online students shouldn’t 
worry. Student advisers will take on the coach-ing work Pearson was doing. Free textbooks were so limited that their absence won’t be 
noticeable.“I think it’ll actually serve (students) bet-
ter,” she said. “I think they’re going to get bet-
ter services by UF experts across campus.”
Marketing and advertising for the UF Online 
program will be provided through the branding agency 160over90, Cummings said. All other services will be provided by UF.
UF Online criminology and law senior Greg 
Heilig said he didn’t know UF Online had a con-tract with Pearson until recently and doesn’t think its cancellation will affect students.
“I think it’s probably going to be better for 
the UF Online program,” the 43-year-old said.  UF Online cancels Pearson Education contract
IN MEMORY
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
They honored Abhishek Tai-
wade, and they hoped he found 
peace.
As his friends and family 
gathered in the Baughman Cen-ter to reflect on the UF student’s life Friday, they didn’t focus on 
the details — they focused on 
the person.
The dates didn’t matter: Feb. 
6, 1997, when Taiwade was born in St. Petersburg, and Oct. 
14, 2015, when he took his life 
in North Hall.
It didn’t matter because Fri-
day wasn’t about the 18-year-
old’s past, but about his life in 
the future.
      
Throughout the memorial, 
there were allusions to the Hin-du faith.
It was there in the traditional 
attire his mother wore. It was there in the songs students sang. And it was there as pro-
fessors celebrated Taiwade’s 
passing onto the next life.
At the beginning of the me-
morial, Krupa Shah stood in front of about 50 of Taiwade’s friends and family members 
and sang.
The 19-year-old chose a Hin-
di song, “Tere Bina Zindagi Se 
Koi,” to honor the loss of Tai-wade’s life, despite not know-
ing him personally.
“The essence of the song is 
that without you in life I have no 
complaints, but without you my 
life is also incomplete,” the UF 
finance sophomore said. With a friend who suffered through a similar experience, she wanted to be there for support.
Manash Ramanathan, a 
20-year-old UF biology junior, stood next to Shah with closed eyes. She opened them once to 
look toward the sky, and once 
more to start her own tribute to Taiwade: a song in Marathi, the language of Taiwade’s family.
She remembers being a 
senior at Hillsborough High School and seeing Taiwade, a fellow student, play tennis.
“I remember one match, he 
cheered my sister and me on,” she said of the single encounter, choked with emotion after she finished her song.
In front of the singers and 
speakers, there stood a collage of photos on a board. In one  ‘Shanti’: UF student’s 
family, friends seek peace and honor life
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
The hunt was on — and then 
closed the second day.
By Sunday, 295 black bears 
were reported to have been taken 
statewide. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission said this number “is well within the allowable range of a conserva-tive hunt” and ended the season.  
The statewide harvest objective 
was set at 320.
The bear season was set to run 
until Friday unless the harvest ob-jective was met in any of the four Bear Management Units.
After the ﬁ  rst day, Saturday, the 
commission found harvest objec-tives were met in the East Panhan-dle and Central units. These units were not open Sunday.
The North and South units were 
closed Sunday night.
The goal was “to stabilize grow-
ing bear populations, as one part of FWC’s overall approach to manag-ing bears,” according to the com-mission. There were about 3,500 black bears living throughout frag-mented regions in the state. Seven bear management units were cre-ated in 2012 as part of the commis-Bear hunt ends after two days 
SEE BEAR,  PAGE 4Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Karrie Ford, 27, protests against the Florida bear hunt at the Stop the Bear Hunt Rally at the intersec-tion of Main Street and University Avenue on Friday. “The number of bears in Florida versus the num-ber of (hunting) permits sold just doesn’t make sense, ” she said.
“I think they’re going to get better 
services by UF experts across campus.”
Evangeline Cummings
UF Online Assistant Provost and Director 
295 bears were takenSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Behind the Screams
RUB will be hosting “Behind 
the Screams,” a Halloween-
themed event, Wednesday starting at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
The event will feature activi-
ties related to horror movie costumes, props and stunts in one room, and in the adjacent room we will be screening the 
cult hit, “The Cabin in the 
Woods.” Get ready for “Behind the Screams” by following us on 
Twitter and Instagram, @
UF_RUB. Participate in our social me-dia contests for a chance to win a Blu-ray Disc version of 
“The Cabin in the Woods” or 
“Hocus Pocus.” Find out more by visiting face-book.com/rubentertainment.
Fall BFA Dance Showcase
The UF School of Theatre and Dance is pleased to present its Fall BFA Dance Showcase, 
“It happened in College.” 
The fall showcase features seven senior thesis research projects as well as various 
other pieces from the MOD 
UF dance ensemble and guest artist Brazilian choreographer Fernando Ferraz. The Fall BFA Dance Showcase 
discovers its roots through 
dance film, Afro-Brazilian dancing and contemporary, thought-provoking movement. 
The showcase is presented 
in two programs Wednesday through Sunday in the G-6 Studio located in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance 
Pavilion on UF’s campus. 
Tickets are $9 and are avail-able through the University Box Office by calling 352-392-
1653 or visiting ticketmaster.
com.
University Gallery exhibition 
and reception
“Class of (circa) ’65,” on view 
in University Gallery at UF on Tuesday through Dec. 4, is the final exhibition of the year 
in celebration of the gallery’s 
50th anniversary. The exhibition showcases two esteemed UF art alumni, Robert Fichter and Mernet Larsen, and features photo-graphs and paintings, includ-
ing photographs from the ear-
ly ‘60s of Fichter and Larsen taken by Jerry Uelsmann. A public reception will be held Friday, Nov. 6 from 7 p.m. to 
9 p.m. 
To learn more about the artists and the exhibition, visit arts.ufl.edu/calendar.
Halloween theme at 
ToastmastersTalking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology 
Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Drive, UF cam-pus, east of the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum of Art. 
Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. This week’s theme is Halloween. 
It is OK to wear a Halloween 
costume and bring food for a potluck pizza party and Open House. 
Newcomers are always wel-
come.
Art Bash 2015
The visual arts come to life at 
Art Bash 2015, an annual cele-
bration featuring a wide array of projects by UF art and art history students. 
The UF School of Art + Art 
History (SA+AH) opens its doors to members of the cam-pus and surrounding commu-nities for Art Bash on Friday 
from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the UF 
Fine Arts Complex. Art Bash offers an inside look at the SA+AH and showcases 
the scope of disciplines it of-
fers — intimate drawings, ceramic works of art, vibrant graphic design, sculpture, photographs, interactive Art 
+ Technology projects, prints, 
paintings, art history and art education displays and more. This fun, free event encour-
ages discussion between stu-
dents and the community and introduces potential students to the school’s facilities and diverse programs. 
Attendees are encouraged to 
participate in the demonstra-tions, exhibitions and inter-active projects from both our 
academic and studio areas.Café Cultural: Rhythm and 
ResistanceJoin UF’s Hispanic-Latino 
Affairs on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. at the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures for Café Cultural: Rhythm and 
Resistance. 
Come out to La Casita to learn about some of the history of resistance in Latin culture and 
even participate in a Capoeira 
class for beginners, led by the Capoeira Academy of Gainesville. There will be free food, fun 
and friends.
Florida Swing Dancing club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your 
friends to our bi-weekly les-sons/dances every Monday and Friday. Free lessons for beginners and 
intermediates are open to ev-
eryone. Monday nights are at the Reitz Union Breezeway with lessons 
from 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. and 
social dancing from 8 p.m. un-til 11 p.m. Friday-night dancing is at the Unified Training Center, locat-
ed at 809 W. University Ave., 
with lessons from 8 p.m. un-til 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. until midnight. 
If you have any questions 
or would like to get involed, check out the Facebook group at facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 45
HIGH  82° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
For Mary Kathryn Nugent, Decem-
ber 2007 holds tragic memories.
The speciﬁ  c day, she says, is one 
she doesn’t like to talk about.
That day in December, her home 
and business were engulfed in ﬂ  ames. 
Her lung collapsed in the aftermath 
of the ﬁ  re, and during her lung treat-
ment, doctors found stage 4 breast cancer.
But that diagnosis led Nugent, 
73, to the American Cancer Society’s 
Making Strides Against Breast Cancer 
5K, smiling as she completed the walk in her electric wheelchair. The walk, held in downtown Gainesville on Sat-
urday, helped raise money for breast 
cancer research and emphasized the need for more donations and pro-grams.
Jessica Clayton, the community 
manager of the event, said 185 teams and more than 3,400 walkers had raised and donated about $120,000 to the cause prior to the event. As of press time, the total amount raised 
has not been updated.
For Clayton, the work is worth 
honoring the survivors. She hopes one 
day, with all of the funds raised, they will be step closer to ﬁ  nding a cure for 
breast cancer.
“They are the reason why we do 
this,” she said. “They are the reason 
why we continue to ﬁ  ght.”
Nugent was one out of about 100 
breast cancer survivors celebrated at the walk with free T-shirts, breakfast 
and goody bags. 
Supporters dressed in pink tu-
tus proudly displayed pink ribbons 
on their bras, hats and shirts. They 
spray-painted their hair pink at a 
booth and stuck pink ribbon tattoos on their faces.
The walk has been in the planning 
stages since February. Clayton re-cruited volunteers who helped gather 
sponsorships, teams and ideas to ad-
vocate the event.
After working with the breast can-
cer committee for three years, Ishan Panchal said he does it to give back to 
his community. 
The 19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore lost his grandmother to 
breast cancer in February.
“She was one of the strongest 
women I will ever know,” he said. “She had the willpower that I don’t think I will see in anyone ever again.”
As Nugent watched tutus shake to 
the rhythm of the Electric Slide, she said she was proud.
When Nugent looks at students 
setting up the walk and volunteering, 
she said she feels there is hope. As 
she rolled through a sea of pink in her electric wheelchair, Nugent said she sees future researchers, doctors and nurses. 
She said she sees a future.“My life is just beginning,” she 
said. “I’m a survivor for a reason.”  More than 3,400 walk to raise money
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Honey, a 6-year-old golden retriever lab mix, wags her tail 
as owner Kendall Nettles gets ready to walk the Making Strides Against Breast Cancer 5K on Saturday.  
HE IS THE CHAIRMAN IN THE DE-
PARTMENT OF RELIGION.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies 
arrested a UF professor after authorities said 
he secretly videotaped his underage adopted daughter last year.
During October 2014, Manuel A. Vásquez, 
53, placed a USB video recorder in his adopted daughter’s closet, according to a police report. She was 14 at the time.
An acquaintance of his daughter, who was 
also a minor, found the camera and watched the contents, not knowing what was on the de-vice, according to the report.
Authorities found seven videos on the cam-
era, and two contained images of either the daughter or Vásquez, according to the report.
He recorded himself stepping back to check 
the camera’s location several times. The sec-
ond video also revealed his daughter topless 
and only wearing underwear, according to the report. Vásquez is a profes-sor and chairman in the De-
partment of Religion inside 
the College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences, UF spokes-woman Janine Sikes said.
“He has been placed on 
administrative leave,” she said.
Vásquez specializes in 
“the intersection of religion, immigration, and 
globalization in the Americas,” according to 
the college’s website.After earning a doctorate in religion from 
Temple University in 1994, Vásquez served as 
an associate professor at UF for 12 years be-
fore becoming a professor in 2011, according to his resume. He became the department’s chairman in 2012. Police arrested Vásquez on charges for possession of obscene material and video voyeurism by someone over the age of 24 against a child under 16.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County 
Jail from which he was later released. Vásquez 
could not be reached for comment as of press 
time.  UF professor arrested for secretly videotaping daughter
Vásquez
for breast can-
cer research
“She had the willpower that I don’t 
think I will see in anyone ever 
again.”
Ishan Panchal 
SophomoreIt was for breast cancer researchsion’s 10-year black bear management plan.
The bear management unit harvest totals 
as of press time were:
• East Panhandle: 112 bears
• Central: 139 bears• North: 23 bears• South: 21 bears
The harvest objectives were set at:
• East Panhandle: 40 bears• Central: 100 bears• North: 100 bears• South: 80 bears
“We underestimated hunter success for 
the first day,” said Diane Eggeman, the com-mission’s director of Hunting and Game Management Division.
The larger numbers in the East Panhandle 
is an indicator of the region’s increasing bear population, said Thomas Eason, the commis-sion’s director of the Division of Habitat and Species Conservation.
Bear permits were available from Aug. 3 
to Friday, and 3,778 were sold. More than $376,900 made from permit sales is planned to help fund reduction of human-bear con-flicts, according to the commission.
Commission officers and biologists were 
at each of the 33 bear check-in stations to collect data for future management.
Standing in the vast yellow field surround-
ing the Micanopy State Maintenance Facility, Brian Scheick, a commission bear research biologist, said biologists at the check-in sta-tions were to measure captured bears’ length from nose to tail and chest girth and estimate their weight. They were to pull a premolar to determine age and mark the bears with a blue tag.
The commission does not have individual 
check-in numbers yet.
Cindy Myers fiddled with her new cam-
era on the field in her black Hummer. The 62-year-old St. Petersburg resident drove to Micanopy on Friday night to monitor the sta-tion throughout the weekend as part of the Stop the Florida Bear Hunt movement. She said she wanted to make sure everything was done properly.
This was her first time participating in a 
movement.
“I’m just trying to stop it from happening 
next year,” she said. “It hit my heart.”
The cause encouraged others to take on 
their first activist role.
Kelsey Jones was so surprised to learn the 
extent of the statewide black bear hunt that she skipped her sustainability class, drove downtown and picked up a poster.
The UF political science and sustainabil-
ity studies junior waved her “Stop the Bear Hunt” poster on a corner of Main Street and University Avenue along with about 50 oth-ers to protest against Florida’s bear hunt Fri-day from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. It was one of 12 protests around the state happening simultaneously.
“Students should have a voice while 
they’re here,” said Jones, 21, one of the founders of Gators for Paynes Prairie, behind a pair of retro, rounded sunglasses.
Anita Smith, 54, and Jane Windsor, 62, 
were also new to the action. The Gainesville residents followed the movement on Face-book before joining the rally.
“I hope that we can make a difference,” 
Smith said. “It doesn’t seem like we are, but I hope we can.”
Adam Sugalski, a Jacksonville resident, 
started the Stop the Florida Bear Hunt Face-book page and helped coordinate the protests Friday. He said the issue unified the state.
“My group was a catalyst of bringing 
people together,” he said. “It was all for the animals. I’m blown away by this.”
He said he took a lot of photos of dead 
bears over the weekend. If he talked about it, he said he might cry.
“People need to lose their jobs,” he said 
over the increased numbers in the East Pan-handle unit. “They promised this wouldn’t happen. It’s a monstrosity what happened to our bears this weekend,” he said.
There was criticism and there was pro-
test, but for better or for worse, the first bear season in 21 years is over.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
photo, a young Taiwade lay on 
his back with a smile stretched 
across his face. In the adjacent corner, an image preserved Tai-wade standing in a collared shirt 
and tie and smiling as a young 
man.
When Rao Mylavarapu, a UF 
professor of soil and nutrient management, stepped in front 
of the lectern, he urged listeners 
not to grieve over the promise of death.  
“One should not lament for 
this inevitable situation,” he said. “Abhishek’s soul had a pur-pose in this world — much deep-er than we all can understand.”
He then recited verses in San-
skrit, a prominent language of Hinduism.
Vasudha Narayanan, a dis-
tinguished professor in the De-
partment of Religion, also em-
phasized this message and said Taiwade lives in many ways.
“When a reflection of the sun 
in a small pool of water vanishes, 
it doesn’t mean the sun has dis-
appeared,” Narayanan said.
She said Taiwade’s soul is 
departed, but the community 
can honor his memory by doing 
something simple and kind every day.Narayanan said Taiwade’s 
first name, Abhishek, means “the anointed one,” and reflects the way he showered people with love.
She closed her speech by re-
peating the word “shanti,” mean-ing peace, three times.
Other university faculty ex-
pressed their sympathy on behalf 
of the Gator community, includ-
ing Associate Provost Angela Lindner.
Lindner thanked Taiwade’s 
family for being open about the 
way he died, bringing attention 
to a problem in our society.
“I suspect Abhishek’s choice 
of major — microbiology — was 
an indication of how drawn to 
life he was,” Lindner said.
As the community grieves, 
Lindner said, it should also hon-or the deep connection Taiwade 
created in what she called the 
puzzled hearts of his loved ones.
“Abhishek will remain here in 
our classrooms and throughout 
our campus grounds,” she said. 
“He remains in us.”
•   •   •
Toward the end, his loved 
ones spoke.
His parents chose not to speak 
during the ceremony. Their only message was a statement in an email to parents and students: “He prematurely ended his life due to a struggle from inside.”
But his friends chose to speak.Sabrina Brijbassi said she met 
Taiwade in high school and re-
membered his infectious humor, 
empathy, honesty and intelli-gence.
After graduation, Brijbassi 
crossed paths with Taiwade on UF’s campus in a shared class.
“It was so nice to have his fa-
miliar face by my side, even if for a little while because in just two 
months, that face was gone,” she 
said.
Brian Spivak, who first met 
Taiwade in kindergarten, said 
he last spoke about him during a 
graduation party months earlier.
“AB was deserving of every 
kind word said about him,” Spi-vak said.
He said Taiwade supported 
all his friends, and touched their lives with his humor and genuine heart.
“Even those who appear to be 
some of the happiest people on the outside may be truly strug-gling on the inside,” he said.  
But even with the mention of 
Taiwade’s struggle, the lasting resonance was three words of peace.
Shanti.
Shanti.
Shanti.EPILOGUE,  from pg 1Friends and faculty shared memories
BEAR,  from pg 1About 50 people protested the hunt throughout the rally
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Protesters cheer as a truck honks in support of the rally at Main Street and University Av-
enue on Friday. About 50 people gathered throughout the protest to oppose Florida’s first bear hunt in about two decades, said Julie Cassel, the rally’s local organizer.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Abhishek T aiwade, an 18-year-old UF microbiology freshman, died on Oct. 14. He was memorialized Friday in the Baughman Center.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Nicole LaReau
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will hang out in trees 
today.
From 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., 
the UF Hammock Club is hosting its 
ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial Plaza of the Americas Takeover. The club hopes to take over the plaza and cover it with hundreds of brightly colored Eagles Nest Outﬁ  tters and Grand Trunk 
hammocks, said Douglas Tam, the 
club’s president. 
“We want people to be able to 
walk up to another hammock and connect with people,” the 21-year-
old ﬁ  rst-year pharmacy student said.
Tam said the idea for the event 
came from the success of a few un-ofﬁ  cial Spring and Summer events, 
which introduced people to the 
club. The group was founded this 
Fall.
Tam said he’s expecting a lot of 
students to hang up their hammocks on the plaza’s trees because it’s an 
opportunity to spend time with 
friends and relax outside.  
“We want to see a true commu-nity come out of the club,” he said. “That is part of our vision.”
In addition to bringing ham-
mocks, Tam encourages students to bring lunch, blankets, footballs and homework.
UF business and theater fresh-
man Julie Anne Christmas said she will share or borrow someone’s hammock while she works on her “What Is the Good Life?” class es-say.
“It’s kind of like the grown-up 
version of a swing set,” the 18-year-old said.  UF students hang out, invade plaza with hammocks
THE PROGRAM STARTED IN 2009.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
MaryBeth Head didn’t want to adopt a 
dog on Saturday.
But she still went to One Love Cafe to 
see the dogs and learn more about Paws on Parole, the program that trained them.
“We have a soft spot in our hearts for 
dogs,” the UF telecommunication alumna said. “I was just really interested in this speciﬁ  c program because I just think it’s awesome.”
The program works with inmates from 
the Alachua County Jail, who spend eight weeks training dogs from animal shelters. 
On Saturday, the program celebrated the 
dogs’ ﬁ  rst outing since the beginning of their training, which gave social media fol-
lowers a chance to meet with the dogs.
“It’s a great way to get sheltered dogs to 
get more adoptable,” Hilary Hynes, the pro-
gram coordinator, said. “The inmates learn 
how to care for someone else and how to 
care for animals.”
The Florida Department of Corrections 
asked Hynes if she could start the program in March 2009, Hynes said. The dogs are 
trained by the standards of the American 
Kennel Club every day for a couple of hours.
Photos of the dogs are posted online in 
hopes of attracting future owners when the 
dogs ﬁ  nish the program.
Holly Buss, 9, may be one of those future 
owners after meeting 1-year-old Slinky Dog.
“She’s such a cute dog,” Holly said, pet-
ting miniature pinscher/rat terrier.  Paws on Parole dogs 
have their first outing
Sara Marino / Alligator
Holly Buss, 9, and Heather Buss, 11, pet Slinky Dog, a 1-year-old miniature pinscher/
rat terrier, at the Paws on Parole event on Saturday. Their family considered adopt-ing the rescue dog, who would have been the household’s ﬁ  rst pet.
CAMPUS
“It’s kind of like the grown-up 
version of a swing set.”
Julie Anne Christmas
UF business and theater 
freshmanThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Allies will always be critical in the fight for equality
It is easy to feel detached and uninvolved 
in issues involving discrimination if you’re not in one of the communities affected. 
However, everyone has a part to play in 
these issues. The definition of an ally is 
just that: standing by a community that you are not a part of and working to support them 
regardless. Allies are necessary for change, no 
matter the issue, and they can make a sizable difference.
Jennifer Lawrence recently spoke out on pay inequal-
ity in Hollywood and got a mixed reaction. Past co-stars 
Bradley Cooper and Josh Hutcherson responded with 
messages of support, with Cooper vowing to tell his fe-male co-stars what his salary is so they can leverage it in negotiation. 
Proactive allies are key in achieving equality. When 
it comes to addressing pay discrimination, secrecy can prevent women from being able to complain about their salaries because they don’t know what others are be-ing paid. Despite her success, Lawrence continues to be 
paid less than her male counterparts.
Acknowledging a problem is not enough. Active sup-
port is the only thing that can bring about true change. 
That means advocating on behalf of women, not just 
sympathizing with their plight. 
Making the process more transparent gives women 
the information necessary to fight for equal pay. This 
doesn’t mean women can’t help themselves, but male feminists can have a role in increasing awareness. In 
fact, Amy Schumer recently negotiated a raise for her-
self on her next movie, but not all women might feel comfortable doing this considering the potential back-lash.
Lawrence’s essay also received less-than-stellar re-
sponses. It’s easy to push off responsibility and say it’s “not your job” — just like Jeremy Renner did, despite recognizing women are paid less than men. 
David O. Russell, a director who has 
worked with Lawrence numerous times, also brushed aside her complaints as part of what happens in Hollywood, despite supporting 
the “spirit” of her essay. While it’s nice they 
see her point, their messages of support are actually pretty condescending. It’s as if they 
meant to say, “You want equal pay. How adorable!”
When men are the ones in positions of power, they 
have control over how much each person is paid, di-rectly or indirectly. When in these positions of power, there is little to no benefit for them to advocate for oth-ers with their jobs on the line.
Similarly, a few weeks ago, Matt Damon thought it 
was OK to tell a black woman how to make Hollywood more diverse, failing to understand the importance of increasing diversity every step of the way, from direc-tors, producers and actors to key grips. Often, breaking 
stereotypes comes from within. The points of view of 
the marginalized are best represented when there are others like them working behind the scenes who can recognize the harmfulness of stereotypes.
Being an ally can be tough if you’re not sure exact-
ly how to help a community. Part of having privilege means not having to think about it and just enjoying the benefits. One key thing to remember is to listen and not talk over people who experience discrimination. Don’t 
tell a person of color how to solve racism and don’t tell 
a woman to combat sexism by being more aggressive. Start by recognizing privilege and seeing how institu-tional power influences your experience in the world.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Even on the dance 
floor, we’re all 
wallflowers now
In 2006’s “Whoo! Alright – Yeah… Uh Huh,” Luke Jenner, 
singer of the now-defunct dance-punk band The Rapture, bemoaned the state of club culture: “People don’t dance no more (what!)/They just stand there like this (uh huh)/They cross their arms and stare you down and drink and moan 
and diss (that’s right!).” If Mr. Jenner were to write this song today, we can’t help but think the refrain would be a little less cheeky and a lot more critical.
For those of you who don’t know what we’re talking about: 
You’re part of the problem. At parties, concerts and clubs alike, the dance floor has become a hive of chit-chat and conflicted emotions rather than a sanctuary for reckless abandon and joy. We’re not quite sure why this is the case, but we have a few working theories. For one, the increasing complexity of sexual 
politics (which is a good thing!) has had the unfortunate side 
effect of making otherwise well-meaning individuals second-guess whether they should dance alongside complete strangers.
Second, the omnipresence of phones and cameras has made 
young men and women more self-conscious than ever before: Why bust out your dance moves when there’s a strong possibil-ity you’ll wake up the next morning to find you’ve become a meme?
If we may be so blunt: Screw self-consciousness. Most peo-
ple are terrible dancers; who the hell cares? Music, regardless of language, is a communal tongue of rhythm and raw emotion. Dancing, regardless of one’s quality or lack thereof, is as strong and honest an emotional response as they come. In short, it’s a healthy outlet for expressing one’s inner state.
As young people in 2015, we’re extraordinarily lucky to have 
more options for party soundtracks than at any previous point in history. Our parents were bound to listening to singular re-cords or hoping the party would be big enough to warrant an 
honest-to-God disc jockey with a portable console. Not only do 
we have iPods, but also we have streaming services that put the last 60 years of pop and dance music at our fingertips! 
As if that wasn’t enough, the dance music of today has only 
refined and improved upon the countless formulas established in the latter half of the 20th century. If our parents could make due with the mid-tempo electronic experiments of Kraftwerk or the guitar work of David Byrne, surely our dancing feet can find inspiration in the soaring synths and anthemic choruses by the 
likes of Daft Punk and Disclosure.
If there is a single person whom the youthful masses should 
look to on the matter, it’s Aubrey Graham — excuse us, Drake 
— the perennial king of slick goofiness. The release of the “Ho-tline Bling” music video last week was a cultural sensation which inspired Internet tricksters to unleash a torrent of memes mocking Drake’s dancing, in the process leaving behind a bevy of material for cultural commentators to sift through and figure out what it all “meant.”
Drake’s dance moves in “Hotline Bling” are tacky, corny and 
unabashedly self-aware. But above all else, they’re honest. In a culture defined by irony and detachment, it’s a big deal for an artist of Drake’s caliber to embrace and celebrate his two left feet. He looks like he’s having fun, which is more than can be said for most partygoers these days.
For nearly a decade, Drake has been a cultural tastemaker: 
the man made “YOLO” a palatable phrase! If he can inspire young men and women to embrace their inner Patrick Swayze, 
this may be his greatest cultural contribution yet.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Katrin Sieg is a professor of German and 
European studies at Georgetown Uni-versity. She has published three books 
on 20th-century German theater and 
performance, which explore national-
ity, race and gender.
This Friday at 4 p.m. she will deliver a free 
public talk entitled “Queering Asylum: Refu-gees in Recent European Cinema” in the Pugh Hall Ocora.
AM: From your long list of publications, which do 
you think are required reading before your talk?
KS: My talk is on a new topic I’m currently researching 
(titled “Decolonizing the Fortress Europe: stage, screen, museum”), so I haven’t published anything yet. I spent 
last summer examining the decolonization of ethnology 
museums in Europe. 
I ask how these museums — which were founded dur-
ing the Colonial Era and often acquired their collections by violent means and bolstered European cultural and 
racial superiority over “primitive” cultures — are now 
transforming themselves into intercultural contact zones that foster civic skills for a multicultural world. 
Whereas indigenous people and their political strug-
gles are the driving force behind the decolonization of museums in former settler-colonial countries such as Australia or the U.S.A., European museums are engag-ing only very reluctantly with calls for repatriation, for community co-curation and for more critical reﬂ  ections 
on colonial violence. However, I argue that artists have 
often stepped in to prompt changes.  
AM: Could you brieﬂ  y deﬁ  ne “ethnic drag?”
KS: My book, “Ethnic Drag,” examines a range of 
theatrical, journalistic and cinematic examples of racial 
crossdressing in postwar Germany. Most of the examples I discuss concern white Germans dressing up as Native Americans, Jews or Turks in order to put themselves in 
the shoes of a particular ethnic or radicalized group, ex-
perience social interactions from the perspective of the oppressed and criticize German racism from that per-spective. 
In more theoretical terms, I consider ethnic and ra-
cial identity as performance rather than expressions of a deeper truth. I treat ethnicity and race the way Judith Butler treats gender, namely as a “series of performative acts repeated under duress.”
AM: You ask how queer cinema can pose more 
LGBTQ+-friendly alternatives to the current European asylum system. What problems does the current asylum 
system pose for them?
KS: The duress derives from societal norms and ex-
pectations. For instance, gay, lesbian and transgender 
asylum seekers are expected to conform to European norms of what a gay man or lesbian looks and acts like to 
qualify for refugee status in the category of a persecuted 
social group. If a European judge doesn’t think they be-have like lesbians, this would have dire consequences for lesbian asylum applicants. For instance, if you don’t know where a lesbian bar is, how to style your hair or how to describe sexual acts, you might not strike that judge as sufﬁ  ciently lesbian. If 
you have been married or have children, those 
factors could also disqualify refugees, even if their resistance to heterosexual social scripts originally impelled them to ﬂ  ee their countries 
of origin. The concept of ethnic drag can help 
us to expose such Eurocentric norms as arbi-trary or absurd, in order to question or chal-
lenge them.  
AM: In your work on the Eurovision (Song) Con-
test, you discuss deﬁ  nitions of cosmopolitanism that go beyond ethnic diversity. What is wrong with popular ideas of cosmopolitanism?
KS: Cosmopolitan norms and values have guided Eu-
ropeans towards overcoming the ethnocentrism, racism and nationalism that resulted in mass destruction in the 20th century. 
The public memory culture dedicated to coming to 
terms with the Nazi past, and the multiculturalism that emerged in the past 25 years or so, have helped Euro-peans embrace cultural diversity and democratic trans-formation. So there’s nothing wrong with cosmopolitan-
ism.  Problems arise when cosmopolitanism is claimed as 
an innate property of European societies and contrasted with those civilizations supposedly incapable of cosmo-politanism — such as Muslim societies. In that case, cos-mopolitanism can serve as exclusion rather than inclu-
sion.
AM: You ask why ﬁ  lmmakers would question the 
notion of a cosmopolitan, ethnically diverse Europe. 
However, the migration crisis has made even more 
Americans aware of the strength of nationalist, neo-
fascist movements in Europe. Are these serious chal-lenges to cosmopolitanism in Europe?
KS: Right-wing groups like Pegida and extremist par-
ties like Front National, True Finns or Golden Dawn are 
opposed to the migrants and refugees arriving in Europe, 
and seek to repel them with violence in word and deed. But even more moderate or liberal thinkers in Europe of-ten deny Muslim immigrants the capacity for respecting 
ethnic, cultural and sexual diversity as the prerequisite 
of participating in a democratic and cosmopolitan soci-ety.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Georgetown professor talks queers, ethnic dragColumn
While many Americans are aware baseball season is 
ending, football season is reaching a sort of midway point and hockey season is just starting, the nation does not seem to fully appreciate that we are cur-rently in the thick of the presidential debate season. 
The nation has watched three debates — two Republican and one Democratic — and is mentally preparing itself for another Republican debate Wednesday.
Just like sports, presidential debates require ﬁ  nesse and nim-
bleness, with hours of practice and drilling dedicated to master-ing the craft. The spectators of debates and sports alike desire blood, guts, panache and gusto.  
With Americans arguably caring and knowing more about 
the New York Giants than the former governor of New York 
and presidential candidate George Pataki, there is an incredible 
amount of misinformation surrounding the debates. Luckily for you, this columnist is here to clarify some of the misconceptions about presidential debates and the race thus far.
Misconception No. 1: Democrats on the debate stage are 
more ideologically uniﬁ  ed than the Republicans. I’ve heard sev-eral of my friends comment that the Republican nominees are locked in ideological opposition while the Democrats largely share the same views. In my estimation, this isn’t the case at all.
For starters, it’s worth taking a look at the policy positions of 
the GOP ﬁ  eld: Every Republican says heavily taxing the middle class is a bad idea, the role of government should be minimized, the rich should not be demonized, religious considerations are important, Obamacare should be repealed, the president should hold a pro-life disposition and the needs of the private sector should take precedence over the public sector. Every single can-didate believes these things and the GOP has 15 of them.
Now, look at the effectively two-person Democratic ﬁ  eld. 
Vox website outlined the differences between Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton nicely: Sanders demonizes capitalism and the rich while Clinton defends both to an extent; Sanders is un-abashedly against trade deals and Clinton “wafﬂ  es;” Clinton is a hawk and Sanders doesn’t have a clue on foreign policy; Sanders believes in single-payer health care and Clinton wants a more practical plan for health care; and Clinton supports more gun control measures than Sanders. 
Misconception No. 2: The Democratic debate was more en-
joyable to watch than the Republican debates.
To rebut this misconception, I’ll give you two words: Don-
ald Trump. Every person wants to see this guy go nuts. Every person wants to create another Trump GIF or meme. The last GOP debate received 23.1 million viewers compared to the 15.3 million of the ﬁ  rst Democratic debate. Millions of people can’t be wrong: Trump makes the debates worth watching for the average Joe.  
Misconception No. 3: The debates don’t matter.
Think about this for a second: Who are the candidates who 
dropped out of the race? The answer is Rick Perry, Scott Walker, 
Jim Webb and Lincoln Chafee. What characteristic do they all have in common? Well, the newly smart-guy, glasses-cladded Perry stumbled on the debate stage. In the second GOP debate, Walker largely remained silent and dulled the audience when he eventually spoke. Webb awkwardly told the nation he killed a Vietnamese soldier in ‘Nam. Chafee chaffed on the debate stage — sorry, I couldn’t help myself. None of these men debated 
well. A bad debate performance means a decrease in campaign 
fundraising. A decrease in funds means staffers don’t get paid, campaign ofﬁ  ces aren’t opened and advertisements aren’t run. These situations lead candidates to drop out of the race like Per-ry, Walker, Chafee and Webb.
The moral of the story: Don’t have a bad debate performance. 
Why? Debates matter.
Debates allow the candidates to map out their positions to 
the American public. The nation gets to see how each man or 
woman handles the spotlight, scrutiny and pressure. All in all, 
the debates have been, and will no doubt continue to be, very useful on a few levels.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Mondays.Presidential debates 
deserve more creditColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org
“The concept of ethnic 
drag can help us to expose 
such Eurocentric norms as 
arbitrary or absurd, in order 
to question or challenge them.”8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
RIGHT:
Bobby Foxx, a sandwich deliv-
erer and Santa Fe College stu-dent, does tricks with a child-sized hula hoop on Saturday at the Gainesville Pride Festival in downtown Gainesville.
Emma Green / Alligator
BELOW:
Bruce Blackwell (left) and Brandy Wight celebrate marriage equal-ity in the Gainesville Pride Parade and Festival on Saturday. The two have been a couple since 1966 and got married in Martha’s Vine-yard on Sept. 17, 2004.  
Kaila Jones / Alligator
Emma Green / Alligator
Jeff Newcomb, a 53-year-old gay Christian city employee for Boca Raton, displays his religious and ethi-cal pamphlets at the Gainesville Pride Festival on Saturday. “God is not opposed to us because we are ho-mosexual, ” Newcomb said, and added that he attends six or seven festivals with his materials each year.
Emma Green / Alligator
Katy Lazarus, the captain of the UF roller derby team, chalks the road to make the Gainesville Roller Rebels’ tent stand out at the Gainesville Pride Festival on Saturday. The plant pathology graduate said the Rebels also skated in the Pride Parade on University Avenue.Emma Green / Alligator
Niki McHale, a 28-year-old snow cone vendor, flavors a rainbow snow cone at the Gainesville Pride Festival downtown on Saturday. She said her wife came up with the innuendo on the tip jar.Say it loud and proudMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Gabrielle Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eleven days before their first 
performance, the actors arrived at 
the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts.
The 28 actors and directors ar-
rived at the Phillips Center not only to practice for their performances of the musical “Ragtime” on Thurs-day and Friday, but also to prepare for a series of performances across the country.
The performances marked the 
beginning of a national tour for “Ragtime,” a musical about racial 
tensions in the early 20th century.
Josh Walden, the associate di-
rector/choreographer, said the play 
was revived because the racial tur-bulence in the play mirrors current events in the U.S.
“I think the most poignant thing 
is thinking about the climate of our country right now... and look-ing at how things haven’t greatly changed. And this lesson is so im-portant, I think, for us to teach,” he 
said.
The musical will be performed 
in 96 cities until the end of June 
2016, Walden said. It was stripped down from its original opera-level production to a set that can be transported in two trucks.
UF was approached for the pre-
miere performance due to UF’s rep-
utation in the production world of 
being able to help tours build their shows, said Amy Douglas, the di-rector of marketing and communi-cations for UF Performing Arts.
“It hits home with some things 
that are going on today,” said Kelsey Gwin, 20, a UF biology and French and francophone studies ju-
nior who watched the show Friday. 
“But at the end of the day, it shows that we have come a long way.”Ragtime begins tour 
at the Phillips CenterBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Down a narrow passageway in 
Dickinson Hall, the thick vertebras of 
a baleen whale sit beside its 6-foot-long skull. In another room, about 33,000 bird specimens and field 
notes nestle together in drawers.
In total, more than 3 million ani-
mal and plant specimens reside in 
the hall, home to the Florida Muse-um of Natural History’s vast collec-tion of documented life.
In an effort to help transfer the 
collection into a database, the mu-seum partnered with the Smithson-
ian Institution and about 20 other 
museums over the weekend as part of Worldwide Engagement for 
Digitizing Biocollections, a four-day 
global effort created by the Florida Museum, said Rob Guralnick, the 
curator of biodiversity informatics at 
the museum.  On Saturday, the Florida Museum 
held a WeDigBio blitz event for visi-tors to digitize pieces of data with assistants from the museum. The 
museumgoers transcribed field notes 
by typing information from scanned copies to an online database at notesfromnature.org.
About 5 percent of the museum’s 
collection has been digitized, Gural-nick said. It becomes nearly impos-sible for scientists to utilize the data for research when they are away 
from Dickinson Hall.
“The whole idea here is to open 
that up,” he said. “We’re on a huge 
endeavor to digitize all of it.”
One attendee, UF health educa-
tion and behavior freshman Casey Jackson, came to the museum with her family and boyfriend. When she entered the digitization room, she 
began to transcribe notes about a 
plant that was collected from Ten-nessee in 1990.
The 18-year-old said the idea of 
inviting the public to help with scien-tific endeavors made her feel like she was part of something bigger than herself.
“We’re making our mark,” she 
said.
Pam Soltis, who organized Satur-
day’s event, said people are inher-ently inclined to think scientifically.  
“I think people are just naturally 
curious about the world around them,” the UF botany professor said.
The museum ranks among the 
top 10 museums in the world in 
terms of how many specimens it has, 
Soltis said.
“We’re kind of right up there 
with the Smithsonian,” she said.
UF botany doctoral student An-
dre Naranjo, who helped instruct attendees Saturday, said he thinks digitizing specimens would help researchers from around the world 
combat climate change and track or-
ganism movements.
“They give us like a snapshot of 
where an organism is at a certain period of time,” the 22-year-old said. “It’s kind of mind-blowing how big of an effect it can have.”Natural history museum goes digitalLOCAL
Visitors can help with dataMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-30-15-15-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
1. In 2014, Detroit’s Victor Martinez 
became the third A.L. player in histo-
ry to have a season of 30-plus homers 
and less than 50 strikeouts at age 35 or older. Who were the first two?
2. Name the last major-league play-
off team before the 2014 Kansas City Royals to not have at least 100 regu-lar-season home runs.
3. Who was the last player before 
Jacksonville’s Allen Hurns in 2014 to score on each of his first two NFL 
receptions?
4. Name the first men’s basketball 
coach to take five different schools to 
the NCAA Tournament.
5. Who was the first graduate from 
Harvard to score a goal in the Stanley 
Cup Finals? 
6. In 2015, Alex Morgan became the 
third-fastest U.S. female player (79 
games) to score 50 goals in interna-tional competition. Who did it faster?
7. How many losses did heavy-
weight boxer Joe Frazier have during his 37-fight pro career.
Answers
1. Joe DiMaggio (1950) and Ted 
Williams (1957).
2. The Los Angeles Dodgers, in 
1988.
3. Detroit’s Charles Rogers, in 2003.4. Lon Krueger (Kansas State, Flor -
ida, Illinois, UNLV and Oklahoma).
5. Alex Killorn, for Tampa Bay in 
2015.
6. Michelle Akers (49 games) and 
Abby Wambach (64 games).
7. Four — two to George Foreman 
and two to Muhammad Ali.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 26, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Singapore’s
continent
5 Arches National
Park state
9 Spread out, as
one’s fingers
14 Amorphous mass
15 By way of, briefly16 Leave no doubt
about
17 Name as a
source
18 Club often used
for chipping
19 Procedures to
learn, informally,with “the”
20 Carbonated
beverage
23 Track section24 Assent to a
captain
25 Bright,
photogenic grin
31 Boat not to rock32 Miler Sebastian33 Grazing area34 Charged toward35 Fairy tale home
builder
36 Note equivalent
to E
38 Catering
dispenser
39 Galoot40 Online finance
company
41 Excellent year-
end review, say
45 Tiny farm
denizen
46 Ripped up47 Epitome54 Italian violin
maker
55 Cross inscription56 Bar from a dairy
case
57 Slow-witted one58 Walking stick59 Actor Penn of
“Mystic River”
60 Getting on in
years
61 Fleecy farm
females
62 Repertoire
requirement for amilitary buglerDOWN
1 Preschool
lessons
2 Lose traction
3 Greek “i”
4 Deviating from
the norm
5 Employ6 Roller coaster
excitement
7 Elvis __ Presley8 Suspended on
the wall
9 Wets with a hose
10 President __:
Senate bigwig
11 More than trot12 State firmly13 “You bet!”
21 Hummed-into
instrument
22 “Living”
compensation
25 “Hawaii Five-O”
nickname
26 More standoffish
27 Spiked yuletide
beverage
28 __ ease: anxious29 Tilt to one side30 Have a bite31 Astronomer
Sagan34 Persian on the
living room floor
35 NBA scoring stat
36 Horticulturist’s
study
37 First and __:
most important
39 Objector
40 Model kit glues
42 Serve, as diner
patrons
43 Baseball game
ninth44 Without end, in
poetry
47 Skyline haze48 Big name in
spydom
49 “__ going!”:
“Good job!”
50 Work on a bone51 Intense request52 Jump53 Very long time54 Org. with many
specialists
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/26/1510/26/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 26, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD FRIDAY, OCT. 30, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
10-26-15-3-14
Hiring Insurance Licensed Sales Producer
Active 4-40 or 2-20 License RequiredEmail Resume to JudyLocascio@Allstate.com     10-30-15-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15A North Florida sign-language teacher and/or lead teacher aide is presently on duty in Alachua County. Call my service, obtain ref-erences, etc. 352-375-8606     10-26-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida soccer team 
downed Arkansas 4-0 on Senior Day at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. For the story and photos, see pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF moves up to No. 11 in the AP Poll
The Florida football team moved up to No. 11 in the AP Poll following a 
bye week. The Gators (6-1, 4-1 Southeastern Conference) will head to Jacksonville to take on Georgia (5-2, 3-2 SEC) on Saturday at EverBank. THE GATORS HAVE SWEPT 
FIVE OF THEIR LAST SIX 
OPPONENTS.  
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17 
In a clash between two of the 
Southeastern Conference’s elite,  
Florida turned in one of its most im-
pressive performances of the season. 
Bolstered by a stiﬂ  ing defense and 
an efﬁ  cient offense, the Gators made 
quick work of Missouri, dispatching the Tigers in straight sets, 25-12, 25-
14, 25-17, for their ﬁ  fth sweep in the 
last six matches. 
Seeking redemption for a ﬁ  ve set 
loss at the hands of the Tigers on Sept. 30, No. 15 Florida (15-4, 7-3 SEC) rocketed out of the gates early, beginning the match on a blistering 10-2 run from which Missouri never recovered. The Gators cruised to a 
25-12 victory to take the ﬁ  rst set. 
The second set got off to an even 
start, with both teams trading points 
in the early going. 
But with the score tied at 11-11, 
Florida went on a sizable run and took control by winning 14 of the next 17 points, putting a strangle-hold on the match. 
The teams were knotted at 11 
points apiece again early in the third set. 
In the end, Florida’s dominance 
was too much for the Tigers to over-come.  
A block by senior middle blocker 
Simone Antwi and junior right side hitter Alex Holston on the ﬁ  nal play punctuated the victory as the Gators buried the Tigers, 25-17. 
“You can tell that the team was 
playing really close, really connected today,” senior outside hitter Ziva Recek, who had 11 kills and 10 digs on the afternoon, said. 
“We lost against them before and we had more details about them, more information on how we have to prepare on them. … It feels great to execute and go on the court and beat them.” Once again, Florida’s suffocating 
defense proved to be the difference maker, holding Missouri to just a 
Florida volleyball sweeps Missouri RAMBLIN' ON GAMBLIN'
It’s ridiculous that daily fantasy sports is legal while sports gam-bling isn’t.
That last state-
ment is ironic be-cause daily fantasy sports IS sports gam-bling.
Earlier this month, 
a scandal involving DraftKings, a daily fantasy sports website, dominated headlines, as a Draft-
Kings employee won $350,000 
on his employer’s rival website, FanDuel. 
This created a huge uproar be-
cause some thought the employee may have had inside information from the exclusive DraftKings data and used it to his beneﬁ  t on FanDuel. 
Since then, the Nevada Gam-
ing Control Board has ruled that daily fantasy is gambling and will require a license to continue op-erating in Nevada. 
People wager money on how 
well athletes will play in a com-petitive game. 
It’s the same as betting on any 
kind of professional or college game. Sports gambling should be legalized, licensed and regulated in every state. 
It already happens every-
where. 
And ESPN is promoting gam-
bling like never before. 
On the new midnight 
SportsCenter, hosted by Scott Van Pelt, a segment called “Win-ner$” involves Van Pelt picking ﬁ  ve football games that weekend with the point spread in-cluded. 
Then, on Mon-
day, he does a “Bad Beats” segment that highlights the un-luckiest betting losses of the weekend.
ESPN even bills 
employee David Purdum as a “gambling reporter”. 
Flip on ESPN, and in the span 
of an hour you are likely to see a daily fantasy expert picking foot-ball games against the spread. 
Matthew Berry has transi-
tioned from a “fantasy expert” to an anchor who offers corporate-sponsored opinions on daily fan-tasy plays. 
His Twitter can even be seen 
promoting DraftKings on a regu-lar basis. 
Daily fantasy has twisted the 
most notable fantasy expert in the world into a spokesperson for gambling.
If you watched SportsCenter 
and didn’t know any better, you would think that sports gambling 
is legal everywhere. 
Even here at alligatorSports we 
have a picks column every Friday 
with games picked against the spread (which I was inexplicably not invited to participate in). 
On October 28, 1992, the Pro-
fessional and Amateur Sports Pro-tection Act was enacted to outlaw 
people from betting on profes-
sional and collegiate athletics. With the rise of DraftKings 
and FanDuel, gambling on 
sports should be legalized
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
 
Elliott Orkin made a name for himself on 
the Florida men's tennis team and through-
out the collegiate tennis circuit in his ﬁ  rst two 
years with the Gators.
During his junior season, he has only added 
to his impressive resume.Orkin took home the singles championship 
after defeating Rishab Agarwal of Mississippi State, 6-0, 7-5 at the Southeastern Conference Fall Classic in Auburn, Alabama, on Sunday. 
He also won the singles Fall Classic title in 
Gainesville last season.
Orkin, who is one of this year’s captains 
along with senior Diego Hidalgo, was named the Gators’ most valuable player last season and was named to the Second Team All-SEC in 2015. 
Orkin also led the Gators in singles play last 
season with a record of 27-8.
In the quarterﬁ  nals, Orkin defeated South 
Carolina’s Harrison O’Keefe, 7-5, 6-2, before moving on to the semiﬁ  nals where he would defeat Tennessee’s Thomas Mayronne, 6-3, 6-2.
Four other Gators made it to the quarterﬁ  -
nals of their respective draws on Saturday. 
Freshman McClain Kessler fell to Tennes-
see’s Luis Valero, 6-3, 7-6, in the quarterﬁ  nals, while redshirt sophomore Josh Wardell fell in a three-set battle to Will Albanese of Arkansas, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the quarterﬁ  nals of the singles ﬂ  ight B draw.
Kessler would pick up a win in the singles 
ﬂ  ight A consolation semiﬁ  nals against Vander-bilt’s Alex Ross, 6-4, 6-2. 
Junior Maxx Lipman advanced to the sin-
gles consolations ﬁ  nals after defeating Hunter Vaughn of Mississippi State, 6-4, 7-5. 
Sophomore Jordan Belga also advanced to 
the ﬂ  ight B singles consolation ﬁ  nals after a win over Tate Alwardt of Vanderbilt, 6-3, 6-1.UF men's tennis player captures singles title at SEC Fall Classic SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF outside hitter Ziva Recek swings for a kill during Florida's 3-0 
win against T exas A&M on Oct. 9 in the O'Connell Center. 
It was his second straight title
Andrew Jurnovoy
twitter: @andrewjurnee1014   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
 
It seemed as if two different 
teams showed up to play for Flor-
ida on Sunday night at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.On Senior Day, No. 8 Florida 
went on a second half scoring flurry en route to a 4-0 win against Arkan-sas to end the team’s home regular season schedule. 
The team that played the first 
45 minutes failed to score and mus-tered just four shots compared to the three that Arkansas produced.
But in the second half, the Gators 
played with the energy that was missing in the opening segment. 
Less than one minute into the 
game’s latter half, junior forward Brooke Sharp tapped in a pass from Meggie Dougherty Howard from three yards out to get the Gators 
(13-3-1, 7-2-1 Southeastern Confer-
ence) onto the scoreboard.
The goal — taking place 57 sec-
onds into the second half — was the fastest goal Florida has scored entering a half this season.
The tiebreaker was Sharp’s 10th 
goal of the season, marking the 11th season in the program’s history that 
has produced two double-digit goal 
scorers.
Once they got on the scoreboard, 
the Gators opened the floodgates on an Arkansas (5-11-1, 1-8-1 SEC) team that seemed to have UF’s number in the first half. 
“Once we got that first goal, we 
know we could kind of settle in,” 
junior forward Savannah Jordan 
said.
Ten minutes after Sharp’s goal, 
Jordan headed a Christen Westphal corner into the back of the net to give the Gators a 2-0 lead.
The goal marked the 10th assist 
for Westphal, as well as the fifth time the duo have connected for a 
goal and assist this season.
“(Jordan is) such a presence in 
the box,” Westphal said. 
“When I’m playing (the ball), 
honestly I’m trying to find her every 
single time.”
Florida’s final two daggers were 
scored in a span of 31 seconds.
The first goal, in the 72nd min-
ute, was built up by a long throw from freshman goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese to Briana Solis.
The freshman midfielder then sprinted down the right side of the 
field all the way into the Razor-
backs’ box, where she launched a shot past goalie Jordan Harris for her first collegiate goal.
“Once I scored, they’re like ‘I 
love you’,” Solis said of the seniors congratulating her following the goal. “It was just an awesome expe-rience making them proud of me.”
Marckese became the third UF 
goalkeeper to ever record an assist, with Taylor Burke and Brittni Good-win having done so during their collegiate careers.
Just moments later, Jordan 
scored on a pass from junior mid-fielder Betsy Middleton to post her second goal of the night, as well as 
extend the Gators’ lead to 4-0.
Coach Becky Burleigh credited 
assistant coach Alan Kirkup in help-
ing spark Florida’s offensive surge in the second half.
“Alan talked about committing 
more numbers to the box,” Burleigh said. “That made a big difference.”
As the final seconds counted 
down,  Burleigh was relieved to fi-nally see a “0” next to an SEC oppo-nent’s name when the final whistle was blown.
Sunday night’s result gave 
Florida its first conference shutout of the season, after having squan-dered clean sheet opportunities to last minute goals in two of the past 
three games.
“It was a shutout,” Burleigh said. 
“I’m so excited we got a shutout.”Florida soccer celebrates Senior Day, trumps Arkansas
UF defender Christen Westphal dribbles the ball during Florida’s 
4-0 win against Arkansas on Sunday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
UF midfielder Lauren Smith (center) poses with her family , ncluding twin sister Brooke (second from left) before Florida’s 4-0 win over Arkansas at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.  
Photos by Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
LEFT: 
UF midfielder Briana Solis cel-ebrates with defender Rachelle Smith after Solis scored her first career goal in the second half. 
BELOW: 
UF defender Claire Falknor smiles with fellow senior Chris-ten Westphal following their final regular season home game of their UF careers. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
.009 team hitting percentage. It’s the sixth time 
this season that the Gators have held their op-
ponent under a .100 hitting clip. 
“It feels great. It’s a nice reflection on how 
much time we put into getting better at the areas we needed to improve on in the past month,” sophomore outside hitter Carli Snyder, who had a game-high 12 kills, said. 
“We’re not going to settle now that we’ve 
avenged certain matches. I don’t think we thought of it as revenge, I think we thought of it as this is where we can get better and we’re going to show how much better we got the next time we play them.” 
UF’s offensive efficiency has been steady 
during its current win streak to complement the defense. The Gators hit .398 as a team and had 45 kills to the Tigers' 25. Florida also committed only eight attack errors on Sunday, compared to Missouri’s 24. 
The last time they played, it was Florida who 
was sloppy.  
“I think the biggest difference between this 
match and the one a month ago against Mis-souri was how low error we were,” coach Mary 
Wise said. 
“I thought our team was locked in.” 
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg13UF held the Tigers to a .009 hitting percentage
Meanwhile, the American 
Gaming Association estimates 
that as much as $380 billion is 
wagered illegally in the U.S. an-
nually as there are countless amounts of online betting sites that make that number stagger-ingly high and on the rise.
Given how commonplace 
sports gambling is despite it be-ing illegal, it would make sense for the government to legalize 
it, tax it and use the revenue for 
whatever purpose it sees fit rath-er than criminalizing it with laws that are clearly ineffective.
Professional sports leagues 
and the NCAA benefit immensely from sports gambling, so why can’t the government? 
“It’s good for business, I don’t 
want to hide from that,” said NBA 
commissioner Adam Silver, who 
has been an outspoken proponent 
of legalizing sports gambling. 
“We all know as fans if you 
have, even like a gentleman’s bet or a $5 bet with your friend on a game, all of a sudden you’re a lot more interested,” he added. 
Every league would benefit 
from this in terms of money and popularity. 
We have the commissioner of 
the NBA pushing for the legaliza-tion of gambling. ESPN continually parades 
gambling all over its platforms.
Daily fantasy sports are legal 
for in the majority of the U.S. Hopefully these baby steps sig -
nal the legalization of sports gam-bling in the near future.
COLUMN,  from pg13Belga went on to win in the finals 
against Langford Hills of Alabama, 
3-6, 6-2, 6-1. Lipman was defeated in 
straight sets by Vanderbilt’s Danny Va-lent, 6-4, 6-2.
The Gators doubles duos also ad-
vanced to the semifinals Sunday. Lip-man and Orkin defeated Conner Huer-tas del Pino and Joseph Van Dooren of Auburn, 8-4. 
Wardell and Kessler faced the other 
Auburn duo of Viboosh Chandrasekar and Max Sivalls with Wardell and Kes-sler winning 8-2.
Lipman and Orkin would lose in the 
semifinals to Jack Schipanski and Luis Valero of Tennessee, 8-4, while Wardell and Kessler would lose in the finals to Vanderbilt’s Valent and Cameron Klinger, 8-5.
Women’s all-UF final 
postponed: For coach Roland 
Thornqvist’s women’s team, all four Florida doubles pairs advanced to the 
semifinals at the USTA/ITA Southeast 
Regional Championships in Athens, Georgia, on Saturday. 
The semifinals, which were sched-
uled for Sunday but were postponed for the UF teams to return to Gainesville, will see a matchup between the No.1-ranked team of sophomore Brooke Aus-tin and junior Kourtney Keegan against 
the pairing of Anna Danilina and senior 
Briana Morgan. 
The other semifinals matchup will 
be between the No. 54-ranked pairing 
of Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Wool-
cock against the No. 55-ranked duo of 
Spencer Liang and Peggy Porter.
All four Gators who competed in sin-
gles play moved on to the quarterfinals 
after defeating ranked opponents. 
Danilina pulled out a win in a three 
set match against No. 73-ranked Wendy Zhang of Miami, 7-5, 4-6, 6-1. 
Keegan also pulled out a win against 
No. 13-ranked Sinead Lohan of Miami, 
7-6(5), 4-6, 7-5.
The Gators would see their singles 
run end on Sunday after all four players 
lost their matches. 
At the start of the Fall season coach 
Roland Thornqvist said he wanted to see improved doubles play  from his team. 
After the strong performances over 
the weekend, Thornqvist seemed more than satisfied with his team’s play. 
“I thought we played great today in 
doubles,” Thornqvist said in a release, 
“Doubles were spectacular today from 
the first point. We were really aggres-sive.”TENNIS,  from pg13Women's 
doubles 
semifinals at 
home today
AP Photo
Jason Robins, center, CEO of DraftKings, speaks on a panel at the Global Gaming Expo in Las Vegas. 
Nevada regulators ruled that DraftKings and FanDuel can't operate without a state gambling license.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The UF volleyball team celebrates after a point in the third set during Florida's 3-0 win against T exas A&M on Oct. 9 in the O'Connell Center.  
“I thought we played great today 
in doubles.”
Roland Thornqvist
UF women's tennis coach16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015
