INSIDE
Kelvin T aylor is often compared to his father, former Gator and NFL 
running back Fred T aylor. But this year, Kelvin  is crafting his own legacy. 
ONLINE
For updates from the Florida-Georgia game, stay tuned to www.alligator.
org/sports. 
RUN
BORN
TOBy Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Kelvin Taylor had dominated the opposi-
tion in his career, but never at Florida. 
Games with 197 rushing yards are few and 
far between.
But the Florida-Georgia game wasn’t just 
UF’s best game of 2014 — it was also Taylor’s 
breakout game with the Gators. 
Snap after snap, Kelvin took the handoff 
and ran full force against a Georgia defense that was favored to beat Florida by double digits.
By the end of the game, Taylor had run for 
197 yards and two touchdowns as the Gators upset Georgia 38-20 for the team’s biggest win of the year.
Kelvin had ﬁ  nally made a name for himself 
that wasn’t “the running back who can’t pass block” or “NFL running back Fred Taylor’s son.”
Before the season, Kelvin said his goal was 
“to be better than my father.”
With No. 11 Florida returning to EverBank 
Field on Saturday, Taylor will look to get UF’s running game revitalized on the same ﬁ  eld where his father made his career. 
And in the process, Kelvin hopes to stand 
out from Fred’s shadow. 
“At the end of the day,” Kelvin said, “I 
have my own name.”
      
Before he even held a football, or played 
a down for the Florida Gators, Kelvin Taylor was fatherless.
When he was growing up, Kelvin’s father, 
Fred Taylor, wasn’t home often. 
His mother, Tiffany Campbell, was the 
only family he had.
At the age of 6, Kelvin only knew about his 
father from watching the TV announcers ooh and aah over him on Sundays. 
That year, in 1999, Fred would ﬁ  nally meet 
his son.
But with his career in full swing, there 
wouldn’t be much time to catch-up. 
He was working almost 300 miles north 
of the family’s home in Belle Glade, dazzling 
spectators with each breathtaking run in his 
ﬁ  rst season in the NFL as a Jacksonville Jag-uar.
      
Tiffany’s brother and Kelvin’s uncle, Jer-
ry, was a rising star quarterback in 1998 at Glades Central High. He had a rocket for an 
arm and NFL dreams at the front of his mind. 
Jerry and Kelvin instantly connected 
through football — both wanting to be like 
Fred, but both wanting to make their own 
name.
Maybe football is in the Taylor’s and 
Campbell’s blood.
There’s emphasis given to the Campbell 
lineage, because without Jerry, the name Kel-vin Taylor may not have left Belle Glade.
Jerry drove Kelvin to practice and brought 
him to what can only be described as “the 
projects” to play football against older boys.
He made Kelvin do push-ups every day, 
telling him he needed to get bigger or he would never make it.
But when Kelvin was nearing middle 
school, everything changed. 
Jerry was arrested and convicted of com-
mitting seven robberies in a week’s span.  
Another father ﬁ  gure of Kelvin’s was gone.But Fred took over Kelvin’s training, which 
included bringing him through the rigors of working with the local Jaguars who would spend their offseasons training with the Tay-lor family. 
By eighth grade, Kelvin was more than 
prepared for the rigors of Florida’s Class 1A football division. 
Despite playing a year ahead for Glades 
Day, he ﬁ  t right in with the rest of the high school players.
Kelvin had his father’s, and uncle’s, physi-
cal acumen.
What followed was a plethora of unprec-
edented accomplishments and accolades that seemed like a foregone conclusion consider-ing his lineage: national freshman of the year, 
the state of Florida’s all-time leading rusher 
in high school and the No. 1 ranked running back by ESPN at the end of his senior season.
      
Fred, through interviews over the years, 
has repeatedly made one thing clear: Kelvin did not get into football because of wanting to 
follow in his father’s footsteps. 
And he is even more adamant that he 
didn’t push Kelvin to choose Florida. 
Kelvin’s college decision came down to 
Alabama and Florida, and he appeared set to 
join the Crimson Tide. 
He had looked up to former Alabama run-
ning back Trent Richardson, and had com-peted against the Tide’s current force, Derrick 
Henry, in high school.
But after much thought and deliberation, 
Kelvin chose Florida thanks to a hard recruit-
ing pitch from former UF coach Will Mus-
champ.
“I stayed away from Kelvin’s decision,” 
Fred told the Alligator last season. 
“He made that decision totally himself and 
he said coach Muschamp was a huge inﬂ  u-ence on that because he liked that Coach ap-
proached him in conversations when he was a recruit. For that particular reason, that’s why Kelvin’s wearing orange and blue.”
In his freshman season, Kelvin rushed for 
just 508 yards and four touchdowns while working as the team’s backup in the back-ﬁ  eld. 
But near the end of the season, Taylor be-
gan to show promise.
He garnered his ﬁ  rst career start against 
none other than Georgia at EverBank Field, and 336 of his rushing yards would come in 
the last ﬁ  ve games of the season. 
It looked like Kelvin would be the Gators’ 
leader in the backﬁ  eld in 2014. 
Yet when the season rolled around, Kelvin 
again was relegated to the No. 2 running back slot behind Matt Jones.
Despite playing in every game, he fell ab-
sent for long stretches due to the perception 
that he couldn’t pass block.
Following Missouri’s 42-13 demolition 
of the Gators on homecoming, murmurs of Muschamp being on the hot seat continued to rumble. 
Meanwhile, Taylor, like the rest of the 
Gators, had grown increasingly frustrated with his and the team’s situation.
But with “The World’s Largest Outdoor 
Cocktail Party” coming up in the same sta-
dium he had ﬂ  ashed potential in his freshman 
season, the upcoming rivalry matchup was Kelvin’s chance to turn his season around. 
This was the ﬁ  eld where his father had 
made his living, his name and legacy. 
This was the Taylor family’s turf.And after the win, Kelvin conﬁ  rmed that 
having his breakout game in Jacksonville meant a lot to him. 
“I’ve been coming to this stadium since I 
was like 12,” he said. “I was excited to play in this stadium and I was very blessed.”
      
When Jim McElwain arrived on campus in 
December, he knew nothing of the criticisms that had hounded Kelvin in his ﬁ  rst two sea-
sons. 
Everyone had a clean slate. 
Kelvin was eager to re-write his story. With the offseason departure of redshirt 
sophomore running back Adam Lane, Matt Jones leaving early for the NFL draft and two true freshmen running backs behind him in the stable, there was no one on the depth chart ahead of Kelvin. 
But in just the second game of the season, 
Kelvin risked falling out of favor with his new coach. After scoring a touchdown to give the 
Gators a 31-17 lead against East Carolina, Kel-
vin celebrated his score with a throat-slashing 
gesture — a celebration for which the NFL once ﬁ  ned his father $10,000 — that drew a 15-yard penalty on the ensuing kickoff.
McElwain immediately erupted, laying 
into Kelvin on the sidelines for committing an 
action that was detrimental to the Gators. 
“It’s not OK to act that way,” McElwain 
said. “It’s not OK to call attention to yourself, 
when a selﬁ  sh act hurts your whole team.”
With Florida’s annual game against Geor-
gia imminent, and UF’s running game needing 
a boost after a dismal 55-yard performance 
against LSU, Kelvin is hoping to get the Gators backﬁ  eld attack back on track.
And Kelvin doesn’t need to worry about 
using his father’s Jacksonville legacy, or Jer-ry’s incarceration and 2018 release, as moti-vation.
He’s internally motivated to make his own 
name. 
“I feel like I’ve known how to pass block, 
now that I’m getting the reps to really do it. ” Taylor said defensively. 
“Last year I felt like if I would have done 
one thing wrong, everybody’s so quick to say something. … You could watch all our ﬁ  lms from last year and you probably don’t see me miss a pass protection at all. I don’t know why people made a big deal about it.”
With half of his junior season under his 
belt, Kelvin has already run for more touch-downs than he did last season. 
Sitting pretty with 463 rushing yards and 
eight touchdowns, he no longer has to worry about redeeming himself. 
Kelvin’s new running backs coach, Tim 
Skipper, said Kelvin is “an interesting guy” 
who lets his play on the ﬁ  eld speak for itself. 
But in the locker room, Kelvin is an un-
questioned leader. 
“When we’re in the meeting room, he’s 
pretty vocal and talkative and helping the 
younger guys out,” Skipper said. 
“On the ﬁ  eld, he’s more of that silent guy 
that goes about his business. He’s more into 
doing what he needs to do to make us better. 
… I’m pleased with how he’s been.” 
McElwain said the one thing he wishes 
more people knew about Kelvin is his person-
ality. 
“I think the one thing that gets lost is what 
a great person, what a great player, what a 
great teammate Kelvin Taylor is,” McElwain said.  
“He is a guy that doesn’t miss anything. 
He’s always there early. His teammates re-spect the heck out of him and that’s what you want.”
As McElwain points out, Kelvin is a guy 
who’s always trying to get better. 
When he was dealing with a difﬁ  cult ﬁ  rst 
two seasons, Kelvin didn’t give up — he only worked on improving. 
“He’s a guy that every day is asking me 
‘what can I do to get better?’,” Skipper said. 
“Even if he feels like he had a good game, 
he’s going to talk about that one or two reps 
where it wasn’t exactly the way we wanted 
it to be. You’ve seen it on game day where he’s played a lot better. He’s more physical. In pass protection, he’s striking people. 
“I think it’s all paying off for him.”KICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photo for Cover Illustration Ariana Figueroa   Cover Illustration Jordan McPherson
Alligator, Friday, October 30, 2015
FLORIDA offense vs. GEORGIA defense FLORIDA defense vs. GEORGIA offense
Brandon KublanowCGreyson Lambert
or
Faton BautaQBSony MichelRB
Quincy 
WilsonCB
Vernon
Hargreaves IIICB
CeCe 
JeffersonDE
Joey 
IvieNT
Antonio
MorrisonMLB
Jarrad
DavisWLBBryan 
Cox Jr.RUSH
Marcus
MayeFS
Keanu 
NealSSGreg 
PykeRGKolton
HoustonRTJeb
BlazevichTE
Isaiah
WynnLGJohn
TheusLTReggie
DavisWR
Cam DillardC
Treon HarrisQB
Kelvin T aylorRBDavid
SharpeLTMartez 
IveyLG
Antonio
CallawayWR
Trip 
ThurmanRG
Mason
HalterRT
Jake
McGeeTE Demarcus
RobinsonWR
Brandon 
PowellWRChris
MayesNTMalkom
ParrishCBJordan
JenkinsOLB
Tim
KimbroughILBDominick
SandersFS
Quincy
MaugerSS
Sterling
BaileyDEMalcolm
MitchellWR
Jon 
BullardDTJohn
AtkinsDTT erry
GodwinWR
Aaron
DavisCB Jake
GanusILBLeonard
FloydSLB
Brian 
PooleNICKEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF junior running back Kelvin T aylor runs for a touchdown during Florida’s 35-28 loss to LSU on Oct. 17 at Tiger Stadium in 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana. 
Alligator File Photo
Kelvin T aylor celebrates during Florida’s 38-20 win over Georgia on Nov. 1 at Everbank Field in Jacksonville. 
OUTINJURY
REPORT
K Jorge Powell (Undisclosed)
PROBABLE
RB Case Harrison (Thumb)TE C’yontai Lewis (Hand)WR Antonio Callaway (Foot)DB Marcell Harris (Ankle)
INJURY
REPORT
PROBABLE
LB Jordan Jenkins (Groin)
SUSPENDED
DB Dominick Sanders (First Half)TAYLOR MADE 
Unfazed by his father’s shadow, Kelvin Taylor’s forging his own pathWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 49 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
UF soccer wins SEC title
The Gators beat Georgia 3-0 to take the crown,
pg. 13
Ready for a new plan
UF professor to retire, pg. 3
UF alumna pursues modeling career
She hopes to model for Nike, pg. 8Halloween at UF
See what’s happening, pg. 9
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Joseph Briggs has considered quitting 
the sport he loves more than once.
The chemical engineering junior is 
a member of UF’s Crew club, which has 
been practicing out of a local space for 
almost two years. Its boathouse at Newn-
ans Lake has been condemned, and the 
other boathouse there currently belongs 
to Gainesville Area Rowing, a nonproﬁ  t corporation that teaches rowing to middle 
schoolers, high schoolers and adults.
The team has to practice 45 minutes 
away from campus at Lake Alto in Waldo, the 19-year-old said. This commute has 
greatly reduced the team’s numbers, as most people don’t want to make the drive. 
They drive to the lake four days a week and use Southwest Recreation Center’s 
rowing machines on Sundays.
“We’re all college students,” he said.  
“We can’t be driving 45 minutes out and back every day to have our practices. It’s really affected the team.”
UF Crew President Atilio Atencio said in 
a regular year the club gets about 120 new rowers for the men’s and women’s teams, 
but this year there are about 12 for the 
men’s team and about 30 for the women’s team.
“We expected to have so many more 
rowers to help us fundraise, and we don’t UF Crew team boathouse condemned, members droppedBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Judy Skinner still dreams about it.
She’s young again, walking across 
a gravel parking lot and kicking dust before she steps through the old doorway.
Inside, she walks on the wooden 
dance ﬂ  oor her mother once leapt over.
She begins to dance.In 1953, it was her mother who 
danced across the ﬂ  oor, leading stu-dents in the repertoire of ballet. But now, it is Skinner and her sister, Kim Tuttle, who guide dancers through 
the steps of timeless performances as 
the directors of Dance Alive National Ballet.
With 11 dancers from across the 
world on contract, the company will celebrate its 50th anniversary today 
at the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts with a performance of 
“A Haunted Swan Lake.” The Hal-
loween-themed rendition of Tchai-
kovsky’s classic ballet “Swan Lake,” for which tickets cost between $15 and $40 and begins at 7:30 p.m., is a chance for Skinner and Tuttle to be both inspirational and creative for their audience, and most of all, their dancers.
“You can see them,” Tuttle said. 
“They’re just feeding off that creativ-ity.”
      
It was once a basement.But now, behind the Publix on 
Main Street, it’s a dance studio.
Now called Pofahl Studio, it be-
came a second home for Skinner and 
Tuttle after they moved to Gainesville 
in 1953.
With their mother, Mary Ellen Po-
fahl, a dancer, and their father, Kim-bel William Pofahl, a tenor, Skinner and Tuttle were born into a life of art. Their mother’s ballet classes were a constant, even as their father’s job outside of art brought them from 
Minneapolis to Gainesville. It was 
why Skinner and Tuttle learned to dance before they could read.
“We were fed it, I guess you might 
say,” Tuttle said.
After the move to Gainesville, 
their mother continued to teach classes in Pofahl Studio and trained the founding members of what was 
then the Gainesville Civic Ballet.
In that studio, both girls debuted 
as ballerinas. In that studio, both girls 
found a career.
After their mother passed away in 1985, Skinner and Tuttle took over both the studio and the ballet. While 
the studio name remains the same, 
the ballet eventually became Dance Alive National Ballet to reﬂ  ect their desire to grow beyond Gainesville.
“This is all I ever wanted to do,” 
Tuttle said with a laugh.
      
In 1972, Tuttle had to choose be-
tween a biology ﬁ  nal and a perfor-mance of the “Nutcracker.”
It wasn’t the ﬁ  rst time Tuttle per-
formed the “Nutcracker.” At 9 years 
old, it had been her ﬁ  rst performance 
after taking lessons for about six years.
But she was there when the cur-
tains rose, choosing ballet over the ﬁ  -nal that would have earned her a UF diploma after seven years of college.
“I was married, and I was going 
to school full-time,” she said. “I just 
couldn’t get it done.”
But at 67, having written more 
than 100 ballets and a children’s 
book, Tuttle has never looked back.
Almost every Tuesday and Thurs-
day, she sits in front of her company and watches rehearsals. While a bad back ended her career and a double hip surgery earlier this year limits her movement, Tuttle still guides the dancers through her choreography with humming and waving arms.A Haunted Celebration
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
The UF Men’s Crew club carry their boat into Lake Alto in Waldo on Wednesday. They 
drive 45 minutes every day because their boathouse on Newnan’s Lake was condemned.
“W e expected to have so many more 
rowers to help us fundraise, and we 
don’t have those numbers anymore,”
Atilio Atencio
UF Crew President50 years of Dance Alive
SEE CREW,  PAGE 4SEE DANCE,  PAGE 4
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Fhilipe T eixeira lifts Carla Amancio during “A Haunted Swan Lake” on Sunday at Riley Arts Center in Ocala. The two principal dancers play the king and queen in the Dance Alive National Ballet production.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Haunting of La Casita
Hispanic Latino Affairs is 
bringing back a special and so-spooky tradition, the haunted house. Everyone is invited. 
“The Haunting of La Casita” 
will be taking place tonight from 8 p.m. to midnight at La Casita. Come by, HLA dares you to.
Group Fitness Instructor 
Training Course AuditionDo you enjoy taking group 
fitness classes through 
RecSports? Have you always wanted to be the one teach-ing the class? You now have a chance to audition to take the Group Fitness Instructor Training Course. Auditions will take place Nov. 12. Be sure to register on RSconnect@
recsports.ufl.edu to save your 
spot in the audition.
Start-Up Student Theater 
OrganizationLet your voice be heard. The Center for Arts in Medicine, the Dean of Students and Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal 
Violence Education seek cul-
turally diverse students inter-ested in social justice. They are creating a student organi-zation that uses the power of theater and the arts to address current social issues includ-ing intimate-partner violence and consent. Become part of 
the movement to change the 
stigma surrounding this topic, build awareness and educate your peers. They provide the theater training and the op-portunities. You provide your passion, talent, energy and drive. No prior theater expe-rience is required to join. For 
more information, contact 
Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu. This club meets on cam-pus Tuesdays starting Nov. 17 from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. to rehearse and play. More excit-ing trainings and select per-formances are scheduled for Spring 2016.
GatorNights: Haunted Horror 
ReitzGatorNights will host its third annual Haunted Horror Reitz tonight from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a haunted house, a team pumpkin-carving contest 
and Nightmare on Beat Street 
featuring Hip Hop Collective. The event will also feature showings of “The Conjuring” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium and a special showing of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” 
at 10 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Breezeway. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. Guests are encouraged to wear costumes, but please no masks per uni-versity policy. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must 
be current students to partici-
pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ’65,” on view in the University Gallery at UF through Dec. 4, is the final ex-
hibition in celebration of the 
gallery’s 50th anniversary. The exhibition showcases two es-teemed UF art alumni, Robert Fichter and Mernet Larsen, and features paintings and photo-graphs including some from the early ‘60s taken by Jerry Uelsmann. A public reception 
will be held Nov. 6 from 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. To learn more about the artists and the exhibition visit arts.ufl.edu/calendar.
RecSports 3-on-3 Soccer 
TournamentDo you and two other friends enjoy playing soccer? This is 
the perfect tournament for 
you. The three-on-three soc-cer tournament is fast paced with each team having just three players on the field and a maximum of six on the ros-ter. Make sure to register by Wednesday at noon to have your chance to take home the 
gold. The tournament will take 
place Nov. 8 to 15.
Drive a tractor at the fall fes-
tivalThe Agronomy-Soils Club pres-ents the annual Fall Festival on Wednesday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the Agronomy 
Teaching Farm, located at 2024 
IFAS Research Drive. Activities include free food, games, har-vesting crops, driving a tractor and more. Support the Field and Fork Pantry with a non-perishable donation as admis-sion.
Mary McLeod Bethune: An 
American LegendThe Matheson History Museum is excited to wel-come Ashley Robertson, cura-tor and director of the Mary McLeod Bethune Foundation-National Historic Landmark at Bethune-Cookman University, 
Saturday from 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. Robertson is the author 
of “Mary McLeod Bethune in Florida: Bringing Social Justice 
to the Sunshine State.” She 
will give a multimedia pre-sentation on the life and leg-acy of Mary McLeod Bethune. Bethune, who founded Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach in 1904, is one of six women featured in the Matheson’s current exhi-
bition, “Saving the Sunshine 
State: Women Leaders in the Twentieth Century.” Saturday is the last day of the exhibit. Born in 1875 to former slaves in South Carolina, Bethune became one of the most in-fluential African-American women of her time, founding 
the National Council of Negro 
Women in 1935, assisting four different presidential adminis-trations, and tirelessly working for civil rights, education and women’s issues.
Curator Talks on Sustainability
Librarians Nina Stoyan-
Rosenzweig and Carl Van 
Ness will provide insight into the balancing of institutional resources with the role of ar-chivists in preserving an or-ganization’s past records. Stoyan-Rosenzweig will talk on “To Write A History, You Must Collect It: A History of 
the College of Medicine at UF.” 
Van Ness’ topic is “Sometimes You Need to Look a Gift Horse in the Mouth: A sustainable approach to preserving UF’s material culture.” The talks are Monday from noon to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library (East), Room 100. It is free and open to the 
public, and light refreshments 
will be served.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 49
HIGH  84° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and Fros
CAMPUSBy Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF entrepreneurship professor 
Bill Rossi always wanted to be a 
teacher, but life got in the way.
While he was at the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts for graduate 
school, he got his ﬁ  rst taste of com-
manding a classroom with a teach-ing assistantship. But as a married man with a baby on the way, he had to put his dream on hold.
Now after 15 years of teaching 
at UF, he’ll be retiring in Decem-ber.
Before coming to UF, he was 
what he now teaches: an entrepre-neur. He said he spent years build-ing different businesses. In 1999, a friend approached him with the idea for what is now the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at UF.
He said he was all in from the 
beginning.
“I walked into what’s been the 
absolute most rewarding thing that 
I have ever done in my life,” he 
said.
Fifteen years 
later, the cen-
ter is nationally recognized. It has one of the top master’s programs in the 
country and offers an undergradu-
ate minor in entrepreneurship.
Rossi said his goal for his time 
at UF was not to receive awards 
but to give students the best expe-rience possible.
“I wanted to be recognized as a 
great teacher,” he said.
Students like Kristen Hadeed have come out of his classroom and gone on to create successful startups. 
Hadeed founded Student Maid, 
a local cleaning service that em-ploys students, while taking Ros-si’s Principles of Entrepreneurship class. She applied his lessons to create her business, and Rossi even helped her write a business plan to get a loan.
“He made an effort to really 
cultivate a relationship with every student in that room,” the 27-year-old said.
Rossi said he’s taught about 
18,000 students during his time at UF, and he’s proud of all of them.
He said he now wants to focus 
on teaching a larger audience, writ-ing for business journals and writ-
ing a blog chronicling the creation 
of a company.
“I’m retiring, but maybe not in 
the way you might imagine,” he said. “I’ve retired before, I’m retir-ing now, I’ll probably retire again.” Ready for a new plan
Rossi
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Keg-o-lantern
Swamp Head Brewery tasting room manager Dustin Allen, 34, 
pours pumpkin beer on Thursday. Brewery staff hollowed out and toasted the inside of a pumpkin to make the keg. See more photos from Thursday’s fall festivities around town online at alligator.org or on Instagram @thealligator_.
By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
To show she’s a badass, UF freshman Diana Salas 
dyed her hair blue and purple to look like Sulley 
from Disney’s “Monster’s, Inc.”
Salas, the marketing coordinator for the Bach-
elor of Arts in Digital Arts and Sciences Society 
(BADASS), celebrated Halloween in her homemade 
costume at the ﬁ  rst-ever BADASS Monster Mash. The event combined technology, like projectors and movie screens, with the arts in Norman Gym.  
An artist splashed color onto a projector, which 
covered the walls in orange and yellow. A panoram-ic theater displayed Halloween-themed portraits. The idea was to give students an immersive art ex-perience, Salas said.She said the event cost less than $200.“I am excited to see everyone together with all of 
the different elements of the night,” Salas said.     
UF digital arts and sciences freshman Sebastian 
Orta dressed as Bane from “Batman,” a villain with a mask. He said he tore up a lot of clothes, including an old leather jacket, and then sewed them together to construct his outﬁ  t.
“The event is for us to get together, have fun and 
show creativity,” the 19-year-old said.   BADASS Halloween has art, techUF professor to retire
“The event is for us to get together, have fun and 
show creativity.”
Sebastian Orta
UF digital arts and sciences freshman4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
Do y ou ha ve pain in y our f ace or ja w?
Volun teers ne eded for study of     or            
F          om e s tio   ro v ded
To be eligible you must be:
 18-74 years old
To learn more , contact us at:
 352-273-7620
PRICE-CTSI@uﬂ.e du
In good he alth
Flue nt in English (written and spoken)
have those numbers anymore,” the 
21-year-old UF biochemistry senior said.
Atencio said the team is required to 
fundraise 75 percent of what Student Government gives them, making the 
goal for this year $18,000. It’s uncertain 
if they’ll be able to reach it.  
Briggs said UF RecSports didn’t ex-
plain details of what was going on when 
the team first had to move. RecSports 
first said the team would get its space back in November of last year, then it 
was pushed back to March, then Au-
gust, then January, and now it’s been pushed back to July 2016.“It was very shady, and we didn’t re-
ally learn much,” he said.
Executive Director for Recreation 
and Health Promotion Services for Rec-
Sports David Bowles said they are in the 
process of acquiring the boathouse cur-rently used by Gainesville Area Rowing. 
In the meantime, they plan on moving 
the team’s practice space to Lake Wau-burg.
Gainesville Area Rowing did not re-
spond to multiple requests for comment.
Bowles said the date of the transition 
isn’t firm yet.
“At the end of the day, the univer-
sity is working hard at this because of a 
strong desire to take care of our students 
who are part of that club,” he said.
Briggs said he hopes the situation is 
resolved soon, as there have been in-cidents of theft and harassment on the team at Lake Alto.
“Going forward it all sounds good, 
but it just needs to happen,” he said. CREW,  from pg1Crew team fundraises 75 percent of their Student Government budget
At the end of the day, the university 
is working hard at this because of 
a strong desire to take care of our 
students who are part of that club,”
David Bowles
Executive Director for Recreation and 
Health Promotion Services for RecSports 
John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
From right: UF Crew team members Maggie Flatley, a 23-year-old chemical engineering senior, 
Catie Flatley, a 20-year-old journalism junior, and Darrion Williams, an 18-year-old biomedical engineering freshman, use rowing machines at Southwest Recreation Center on Tuesday. The crew team lost access to its boathouse this semester and must find new places to practice.“I like putting things together,” she said. “I love seeing art ﬂ  ourish.”
Supporting her from behind the scenes is Skinner, the quieter and 
older sister. After 18 years as a public-school teacher, she now oversees the funding of the company and arts education programming. While she occasionally choreographs, she often spends more time talking about her 
sister than her own accomplishments.
“For me, it’s very different than for Kim,” Skinner said. “I like creating 
order. She’s at a different spectrum. She’s like all over the place.”
But while Skinner said her sister is the real visionary, Tuttle said both 
of them possess the passion and the talent their mother once had.
“A lot of people don’t inherit that kind of talent,” she said. “We both 
inherited it.”
      
Before rehearsal Thursday, Fhilipe Teixeira was on his phone.
But then the music began to play, and he became a king.Tuttle looked on, scribbling notes and calling out to the dancers as a 
rock ‘n’ roll rendition of Tchaikovsky’s music blared through speakers.
“He’s your son,” she said as Teixeira shook the prince’s hand. “Be a 
little friendlier.”
The ﬁ  rst time the company performed “Swan Lake,” it was in 1991 
during the opening of the Phillips Center.
The version they have been rehearsing for the past six months has the 
same elements — a woman transformed into a swan, an evil magician, a lovestruck prince and a backdrop ﬁ  lled with a lake and mountains — but this time, Tuttle added a Halloween twist.
“Ballet is sometimes viewed as a anachronism — the past trying to 
stay alive in a world to which it no longer relates and belongs,” Julia 
Ponomareva, a principal dancer and the white swan, wrote in an email. 
“This will never happen as long as the ballet world continues to produce Kim Tuttles.”
Now, in the ﬁ  rst act, there’s a costume party instead of a formal ball, 
rock ‘n’ roll and jazz instead of classical music and the evil magician swings above the stage on a harness.
Andre Valladon is the magician swinging from the harness, ﬂ  ipping 
and swinging across the stage during the ﬁ  nal rehearsals.
Here, he’s not afraid.
“The jitters come when you get on the wings,” he said. “It never goes 
away.”
It is not the ﬁ  rst time Valladon has broken ballet tradition. Growing 
up in Brazil, Valladon said he was the only boy in the country pirouetting 
and practicing on pointe.
“Because I was a freak of nature, it kind of made me special,” he said. Valladon and his wife, who met in Brazil as dancers and are now prin-
cipal dancers with Dance Alive, are not the only dancers in the company who left their home country for Gainesville.
For Ponomareva, it was the chance to leave Russia and venture into 
new lands and new dance styles.
As the principal ballerina and the main female character, she falls in 
love with her real-life husband, Alexsey Kuznetsov, as they twirl and leap across the stage.
“It is easier to trust and love to dance on stage when you experience 
these feelings in real life,” Ponomareva said.
For Valladon, performing with the small company is more personal, 
like being in a family.
This is why UF student Sarah Beth Thompson, 20,  said she is excited to be a part of the company. The family, youth and community sciences junior has been performing with Dance Alive since middle school.
“It’s really fun to be able to dance together for other people,” she said. 
“It’s something that I’m very grateful for.”
      
At any given time, the company’s dancers may be rehearsing for mul-
tiple plays.
“Her brain is always on fast-forward,” Skinner said of her sister. 
“Even when she’s fried, it’s on fast-forward.”
Currently, the company is rehearsing for “Requiem,” “Ladybug Ac-
tion Hero” and “A Haunted Swan Lake.” By November, the company will begin rehearsing the “Nutcracker.”
The focus today, however, isn’t on the future plays or even on the 
50th anniversary.
It is on Swan Lake.Tonight, from backstage, Skinner will watch the magician ﬂ  y, the 
swans leap and the audience cheer.
Then she will go home, and she will dream again.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
BALLET,  from pg1The company irst performed ‘Swan Lake’ in 1991
 Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Yaima Mendez, a Dance Alive National Ballet principal dancer, 
practices at Pofahl Studios on Thursday. Mendez plays a big swan in the company’s “A Haunted Swan Lake, ” which they will perform in the Phillips Center of the Performing Arts tonight at 7:30 p.m.
Finding a dance partner was always difﬁ  cult for Julia Ponomareva.
She was tall — about a head taller 
than everyone else.
But when she met Alexsey 
Kuznetsov — a fellow dancer about her 
same height — while dancing with the Cro-
atian National Ballet, she found a partner 
she’d stay with long after the curtains came down and the crowd went home.
The two have been married for almost 
four years, but it seems like they’ve known each other much longer, Kuznetsov wrote in an email.
“You always want to be the best for 
your partner in everything, including bal-
let,” he said.
In “A Haunted Swan Lake,” they fall in 
love at center stage. The ﬁ  nal image the 
audience sees before the ballet comes to a close is their embrace — a piece of chore-ography that doesn’t need rehearsal.
“I love to dance with Alex,” Ponoma-
reva wrote in an email. “I’m always conﬁ  -dent in him both on stage and in life.”
But, after practicing a routine for months 
with the same person, tensions sometimes rise.
“Working together very closely with 
just one person is quite difﬁ  cult,” Ponoma-reva said. “What happens in ballet practic-ing, especially if two people are in love, is that the slightest critique is taken very per-sonally and is therefore extremely hurtful.”  
Yet while Julia and Alexsey have found 
the necessary balance between love and ballet, another couple remains on opposite ends of the stage.
Andre Valladon and his wife, Carla 
Amancio, are both from the same city in Brazil: Belo Horizonte. The two danced for the same companies there and sent joint resumes to Dance Alive National Ballet in 
2008.
Although they share a bedroom, Valla-
don and Amancio don’t share any dance 
routines together during “A Haunted Swan Lake.” When they do dance, in rehearsals or other ballets, the two argue in Portu-guese for extended periods of time.
“Kim tends to pair us up with separate 
people,” Valladon said with a smile.
— Martin Vassolo
Editor’s note: Ponomareva and 
Kuznetsov requested email interviews be-
cause English is not their ﬁ  rst language.’Til death do 
us pirouetteThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnHalloween is a time when ghouls, ghosts and ghastly ﬁ  g-
ures prowl the streets and mischief rules above all else. By 
most accounts, Oct. 31 is the spookiest day of the year. We 
don’t really see how that’s possible, given the third Repub-
lican debate aired on Wednesday. OH! *cue Andrew Dice Clay hand motion* With that cheap jab out of the way, it’s time for this year’s scariest edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
Paul Ryan was elected speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives Thursday. No. No. NO! NEIN! NON! NEE! Dart.
This week marks the 40th Halloween since cult classic 
and enduring midnight-movie favorite “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” was released. A glorious tribute to both ‘50s B-movies and the gender-bending glam rock of the ‘70s, the ﬁ  lm has become a cultural touchstone for freaks, geeks and 
“rich weirdos” alike. 
Tim Curry’s iconic performance as Dr. Frank-N-Furter, in 
particular, has been a source of inspiration and comfort for 
millions who have ever felt like an outcast. 
For irrevocably altering pop culture, changing countless 
lives and giving the world “Hot Patootie – Bless My Soul,” “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” gets a murderous, cross-dressed Laurel.
Not content to ruin bacon for us, the World Health Orga-
nization released a report Wednesday that said most of us have type 1 herpes. Yes, herpes, that most sensuous of lip accouterments.
“More than 3.7 billion people under the age of 50 – or 
67% of the population – are infected with herpes simplex 
virus type 1 (HSV-1),” according to WHO’s ﬁ  rst global esti-
mates of HSV-1 infection published Thursday in the journal PLOS ONE.
For somehow managing to ruin both barbeque and wan-
ton hookups within a week, WHO gets a type 2 herpes-ridden Dart. We’d give a Dart to herpes itself, but it seems 
like that battle has already been lost.
Saturday marks the 15th anniversary of southern hip-
hop duo OutKast’s landmark release, “Stankonia.” Buoyed 
by classic singles “B.O.B.,” “Ms. Jackson” and “So Fresh, 
So Clean,” OutKast’s fourth album propelled hip-hop into the 21st century, experimenting with textures and instru-mentation (including but not limited to the drum ‘n’ bass of 
“B.O.B.” and the drugged-out, psychedelic R&B of the title 
track) not usually seen in the genre during the late ‘90s and early aughts.
The experimentation and success of “Stankonia” helped 
pave the way for the profound diversiﬁ  cation hip-hop has 
undergone in recent years: The peaceful co-existence be-
tween trap bangers (Future, Migos), multi-instrumental al-bums with nary a traditional beat (Kendrick Lamar, Flying Lotus) and down-tempo cry sessions (Drake) can be traced 
directly to this album. 
“Stankonia” also marked the ﬁ  rst recorded appearance 
of Killer Mike, who has garnered acclaim in recent years as 
one-half of fellow hip-hop duo Run the Jewels, on a record.
For literally changing the game and emboldening a gen-
eration of artists to pursue their weird musical niches, Out-Kast and “Stankonia” get a funked-out Laurel, which as we all know, lasts forever. 
Forever? 
Forever-ever? 
Forever-ever?
Sixty-nining sucks — pun very much intended 
A long, long time ago, someone realized 
people were wasting time performing oral sex individually and it might be a good idea to combine these acts into one time-saving sex position.
It makes sense — life expectancy was short, 
and time was a commodity. Thus, the most giggle-inducing number was created: 69.
That’s probably not how it went down — 
pun very much intended — but the “long, long time ago” part is deﬁ  nitely true. The ﬁ  rst writ-ten reference to 69’ing was in France in the 1790s and referred to as “soixante-neuf.” Even before then, visual representations have been found on Hindu sculptures 
and Roman lamps. 
Sixty-nining may have originated hundreds of years 
ago, but, aside from probably anal sex — #ButtStuff2k15, 
am I right? — it’s certainly the sex position of the instant-gratiﬁ  cation-ﬁ  lled modern age.
Everyone is free to have his or her own sexual desires 
and preferences so long as everything is consensual and doesn’t hurt another individual. That being said, 69 is high up on the list of sexual things that should be fun — 
like shower sex and sex outdoors — but are entirely not.
Listen, people, we’re all adults here. We’re not in high 
school anymore. We don’t have to double up on oral sex 
to ﬁ  nish by the time our parents come home, or the cops discover us in the backseat of a parked car. Can’t we all be civilized adults and wait our turn?
I’d venture as far as saying that 69’ing represents ev-
erything wrong with our society. Just like how we rushed through childhood because we were so eager to be teen-
agers, we’re rushing through oral sex to reach penetra-
tive sex. This results in a lack of appreciation for oral sex. Looking back on it, though, don’t you miss naptime? And won’t you miss having all attention focused on you during oral sex?
I must admit 69’ing is polite in its effort of equal giv-
ing and receiving. I ﬁ  rmly support this. Both partners should give and receive equally in a turn-taking process. Being on the receiving end of oral sex when all you have to do is lie there and relax — not focus on genitals that are in your mouth and slowly suffocating you by blocking all of your airways — is close to nirvana.
There’s no way I can fully relax and ap-
preciate receiving oral sex as much if I also have to focus on giving it, just like there’s no way I can give oral sex my best effort while I’m distracted by the sensations down below. Maybe this means I’m bad at multitasking — 
I’ll promptly remove that from the “skills” section of my resume — but maybe it means there’s a bigger issue at hand. Or at mouth.
Not to turn 69’ing into a deep, philosophical debate, 
but it represents what’s wrong with our society. We’re always rushing through things: rushing through child-hood to be an adult, rushing through the week to get to the weekend, rushing through our walks to class so we can reach the destination, rushing through oral sex to get to the next act.
We don’t take as much time to stop and appreciate 
things as they’re happening. We didn’t appreciate child-
hood innocence, we don’t stop to appreciate the blue 
skies and the nice weather on our walks to class, and we don’t appreciate the feeling of just receiving oral sex and doing nothing else.
Not everything needs to be combined, hurried or done 
quickly. Sometimes it’s nice to just relax, breathe and appreciate the present. Especially when the present in-volves sex.
Foreplay is arguably the best part of it because you 
can take a few extra minutes to focus on your partner individually. Is it really that appealing to stare into some-one’s asshole the whole time you’re going down on them, anyway?
Not so much. You could even say 69’ing leaves, well, 
a bad taste in your mouth.
Robyn Smith is a journalism senior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays. 
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Quentin Tarantino, the di-
rector of “Pulp Fiction” and “Django Unchained,” is not unfamiliar with con-troversy. I realize this is a 
very I’m-20-years-old thing to say, but the man is one of the best direc-tors out there. He took his passion for cinema and turned it into a suc-cessful career by writing and direct-ing many of the most celebrated ﬁ  lms of the last 25 years. His work is known for its fast-paced, witty and profane dialogue; its fantastical homages to other ﬁ  lms and ﬁ  lm 
styles (the Dirty Dozen, Spaghetti Westerns, 
Blaxploitation cinema) — and for his ﬁ  lms’ often extreme violence.
That’s what critics often focus on. Many 
people are uncomfortable with his ﬁ  lms’ violent nature, which is understandable and entirely their prerogative. But because this extreme violence is also often cynical — and doesn’t take place underneath a ﬂ  ag — cul-
tural warriors of the stock that blame school 
shootings on video games, and teen pregnan-cy on secular music, often take aim at Taran-tino as part of a decline in moral values. He’s also been criticized for his proliﬁ  c use of the N-word in his ﬁ  lms and for what many felt was an insensitive portrayal of the Southern slavery regime in “Django Unchained.”  But the big point is many, many people enjoy his 
ﬁ  lms — shake out any college dorm and you’ll 
ﬁ  nd dozens of mass-produced “Pulp Fiction” posters. That’s not going to change anytime soon.
It’s not a surprise, then, that Tarantino 
should again be the object of derision. What’s different this time is that the controversial things he did wasn’t something from a movie. It’s about things he said in real life; what’s 
disturbing is what he said really shouldn’t be 
controversial at all.
Saturday, Tarantino attended a march 
against police brutality in New York. He spoke at the event, saying “When I see murders, I do not stand by… I have to call a murder a murder, and I have to call the murderers the murderers.”
Even a marginal use of critical thinking 
makes it clear this isn’t an “anti-cop hate” speech. It’s obvious Tarantino isn’t calling all cops murderers — such a statement would be ridiculous. When he says “murderers,” he’s referring only to the speciﬁ  c cops who, you know, murder people.
Given the exceedingly high number of high-proﬁ  le cases where citizens die or are assaulted at the hands of the police, does this not seem fair?
Bill O’Reilly and his reaction-
ary fellows don’t seem to think 
so. O’Reilly declared Tarantino’s 
career to be “destroyed,” while the president of a New York City police union called for a boycott of the di-rector’s movies and named him a “purveyor of degeneracy,” placing 
himself in a long tradition of right-wing ﬁ  g-ures denouncing what they see as degenerate art.
What they’re actually mad about, though, 
has very little to do with Tarantino. As a repre-sentative of the “liberal” media, his behavior is to be expected. What these guys (they’re al-most always guys) are truly angry about is the movement this popular ﬁ  gure is endorsing. The boycott probably won’t work — the only people who’d buy into this mess wouldn’t watch his ﬁ  lms anyway. Some NYPD ofﬁ  cers 
themselves don’t take it seriously.
That aforementioned movement, Black 
Lives Matter, was created with the rather 
moderate purpose to reform the nation’s law enforcement institutions so they don’t kill quite so many black people. But luminar-ies in conservative media circles do nothing but condemn this necessary aim. A Breitbart News Network contributor writing about the 
Tarantino affair called BLM a “left-wing, anti-
police hate group.” This is not unique. Yet, despite their best efforts to prove otherwise, there is no demonstrable link between BLM and police deaths, and this is turning out to be the second-safest year for police on record.
Why, then, is a movement whose essen-
tial demand is “hey, please stop killing us” labeled as a hate group? How can people ra-
tionalize a grown man hurling a high schooler 
up and down a classroom for being quietly disobedient? Whom do these so-called advo-cates of liberty support when armed agents of the state repeatedly violate the rights of citi-zens and without remorse?
Could it have anything to do with who the 
primary victims of this condition are, and who are calling for its end?
Our current system clearly isn’t working — 
assault and death at the hands of those meant to protect us are everyday events in this country. Speaking out against police brutality shouldn’t be an invitation to controversy.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays. 
Police violence and censoring artColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgI think I’m pretty fun. I know how to relax, and I like beer. But I am not the “chill girl,” I never will be and that’s OK.
A few weeks ago, my friend 
sent me a “Saturday Night Live” clip of Cecily Strong impersonating the “one-dimensional female character in a male-driven comedy.” She said things like, “I’m not one of those girls who just eats salads. I like burgers and wings and beer. I just have the body of a salad girl.” 
It was then I realized what Hollywood’s 
“chill girl” really is. She isn’t just a female friend who you consider fun and cool. She is an imaginary creature born from the mind of a male screenwriter in the early ‘90s and then recycled for years to come. She is thin, but she loves pizza and hotdogs. She lives and breathes football and video games. Her smile is supportive, and her words, just like her clothes, are few and far between. She is the 
unattainable combination of an actress’ looks 
and the mind and eating habits of an over-weight 25-year-old bro. She’s our modern-day unicorn.
Examples include Cameron Diaz’s char-
acter in “There’s Something About Mary,” Linda Cardellini’s character in “Grandma’s Boy,” and Mila Kunis’ character in “Ted.” All three have similar “chill girl” traits: a love of 
stereotypically male activities, very little emo-
tional depth, and of course, an inﬁ  nite supply of hotness. Sure, she might love shotgunning beer, but never once do we see her participat-ing in the farting contests her male co-stars indulge in. She remains tantalizingly femi-nine and deliciously uncomplicated. Perhaps most importantly, she is the perfect foil to the hijinks of the male lead. She is always there 
to give looks of mild disapproval and the oc-
casional eye-roll so the audience knows just how wacky the male lead really is.  
Even more frustrating is the opposite of 
the “chill girl” in these types of movies. The dreaded “high-maintenance girl.” The one who constantly texts her boyfriend to see where he is. The one who has nothing to talk about except shoes, clothes and other people. 
Her sole purpose in life is to nag her laid-back 
boyfriend with unreasonable demands.
I understand both the “chill girl” and the 
“high-maintenance girl” are character proﬁ  les created for big blockbuster comedies that are targeted toward mostly male audiences. I also realize the goal of a movie where someone ac-cidentally uses semen as hair gel is not to create realistic multi-dimen-sional characters.
What bothers me about the 
“chill girl” and the “high-main-
tenance girl” is not that they ex-
ist in movies. It’s the fact that a large number of guys actually seem to believe these are the only two types of women in the world. Even worse is the “chill girl” is a title treated like some kind of 
prize, while the “high-maintenance girl” is the ultimate buzzkill and destroyer of male fun. 
It saddens me that many consider the perfect 
companion to be comprised of little more than attractiveness and the ability to watch football and laugh at her boyfriend’s jokes.
Perhaps I ﬁ  nd it so irritating because there 
doesn’t seem to be a “chill girl” equivalent in movies targeted toward women. Sure, there’s the occasional movie like “27 Dresses” where the male love interest writes about weddings 
for a women’s magazine. For the most part, 
however, the male leads are still stereotypi-cal “guys” with ample scenes of discussing their dating lives over basketball or watching football with a few beers. I have never seen a romantic comedy where the male love inter-est just happens to love stereotypically female activities, like painting nails or shopping.
Ultimately, I wish Hollywood would do 
away with the gender stereotypes. There’s some progress that’s been made; “Train-wreck” did an excellent job creating complex male and female characters and remained hilarious. The female lead was feminine and hated sports, but she was sexually indepen-dent, opinionated and funny. The male lead was a sports and beer enthusiast, but he was sensitive, deep and interesting. They are real-
istic because most men and women fall some-
where outside of the incredibly simple gender caricatures depicted in movies and sitcoms.
In conclusion, no, I’m not the “chill girl.” I 
HATE sports. I loathe them. I only eat burgers on days when I run 5 miles, and I am usu-ally still plagued with guilt about it afterward. Oh, and I lied earlier. I don’t like beer. But I am also not some crazed she-devil whose sole 
purpose in life is to irritate the people I date. I 
have goals, needs, interests and opinions. I’m not the "chill girl." I’m a person. And that’s OK. You know what? It’s better than OK. It’s great.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.
The “chill girl” stereotype needs to stopColumn
Namwan
 Leavell
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
PROFILE
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you catch Tawanya Norwood around 
Gainesville during one of her photoshoots, 
you will see a pair of rainbow tights, an iPad and a backpack that doubles as her tripod.
Norwood, 26, is a UF sociology alumna 
with a dream of modeling for Nike. Her day job is working in the human resources de-partment at the University Athletic Associa-tion. But when she leaves the ofﬁ  ce, Nor-wood bends into complicated yoga poses and snaps pictures of herself.
Since creating her Instagram account, 
@th33besticanbe, in May, Norwood has 
gained 740 followers and posted 470 pho-
tos. This semester, she’s posted more than 100 photos. Two have won photo compe-titions, and another has more than 1,000 likes — including one from Nike’s ofﬁ  cial account.
Norwood reached out to Nike’s corpo-
rate ofﬁ  ce Saturday and got a response from the company president’s ofﬁ  ce Mon-
day. They suggested she try to get signed to 
a modeling agency.
Her Instagram contains only a fraction 
of the 2,500 photos she has taken of herself for her modeling.
She takes her photos with an iPad she 
won at a rafﬂ  e at a UF gymnastics meet last February.  
“I don’t know what I would take the pic-
tures with if I didn’t have that,” Norwood said. “All I had before that was a dream.”
At UF, she decided she wanted to be-
come an athletic motivational speaker like her inspiration, Eric Thomas, an author and minister who speaks about never giving up.
“I’ve overcome a lot, especially since childhood and the neighborhood that I came from,” she said. “I was struggling in school and listened to (Thomas). I heard his story and thought, ‘I would love to do that.’”
Modeling for Nike would add to her own 
story of success, she said. 
“If I can accomplish becoming a Nike 
model, I’ll have a story that people will want to listen to,” Norwood said.
A few months ago, Norwood reached 
out to Bruce Floyd, the UAA social media manager, for advice on using social media.
“It was kind of a random, spontane-
ous situation,” Floyd said. “She came and 
found me when I had a few moments to 
spare and had me look at her photos.”
Floyd said her work showed ingenuity 
and creativity, and he spent time advising her on how to add variety.
“She obviously knows what she’s do-
ing,” Floyd said. “She’s motivated and talented, and she’s smart because she’s a Gator.”
Taking Floyd’s advice, Norwood be-
gan exploring new places in Gainesville to shoot, from the historic Depot Avenue train station to the DNA bridge that crosses over Southwest 13th Street.
Her friend and mentor, Sabrina Single-
ton, taught her about Instagram earlier this year. The two met at Alive Church in Gainesville, where Norwood shared her 
dreams.
“All you really need is a good gift,” Sin-
gleton said. “I’ve seen her in action, and 
she’s got one.”
Right now, Norwood is focusing on ﬁ  nd-
ing a modeling agency.
“Nobody knows what’s inside you bet-
ter than you do,” she said. “If you really believe in something, strive to attain it.”UF alumna pursues modeling career, hopes to be Nike 
Courtesy to the Alligator
T awanya Norwood poses on UF’s campus for a self-portrait for her Instagram, @th-
33besticanbe. Norwood hopes to become a Nike model by getting the company’s atten-tion with athletic photos on social media.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Student Living GuideAdvertise in the
and spotlight
your property!
Quarter page ads and 
larger will be map 
spotted for free!Publishes on the day
of the UF off-campus
housing fair!
 Deadline
11.13.15Run Date
11.20.15
advertising 352-376-4482
Today, UF students are celebrating Hal-
loween with a dance competition, spooky 
bonﬁ  re and philanthropic party.
Breakdancing
Students will shimmy into costumes and 
breakdance to hip-hop beats tonight.
Hip Hop Collective will host its eighth an-
nual “Nightmare on Beat Street” in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom.
“It features elements of hip-hop culture, 
particularly breaking, widely known as 
breakdancing, and authentic DJ-ing,” said Chris Montoya, a Hip Hop Collective mem-ber.This year, there will be a guest perfor-
mance by UF alumnus Shay-J, a known member of Atlanta’s hip-hop community, the 24-year-old said.
The breakdancing battles, judged by the 
crowd, begin at 9:30 p.m. during GatorNights.
- Christy Pina
Bonﬁ  reStudents will huddle around a ﬁ  re and 
roast s’mores and hotdogs while talking about Islam.
Islam On Campus will host its annual bon-
ﬁ  re today at the Hoda Center, located at 5220 
SW 13th St., IOC president Hamaad Rahman 
said.  “The bonﬁ  re is kind of a staple and tradi-
tional event for IOC,” Rahman said.
This year, UF students Nabeel Iqbal and 
Geoffrey Panjeton will speak about their experiences and the importance of staying 
strong in their Muslim faith, said Huda Aziz, 
e-board member of IOC.
“As an American Muslim, it’s hard to have 
conﬁ  dence in your faith,” the 19-year-old UF nutritional sciences sophomore said.
The event is free and open to everyone.
- Christy Pina
Philanthropy
Students will donate school supplies to 
underprivileged children while they salsa dance tonight.
UF PorColombia has hosted a fundraiser 
for Colombia’s Colegio Distrital José Martí 
students in the past, but this year, it will be combining charity work with costumes, said 
Javier Grisales, PorColombia vice president 
of technology.
“We ﬁ  gured, ‘Hey, why don’t we just 
throw a party?’” the 22-year-old said. “That way, we can attract an audience but at the same time be able to fundraise for an impor-tant cause for kids in Colombia.”
The party will start at 10 
p.m. at 816 NW 14th Ave. It is 
free and open to the public.
-Jennifer JenkinsHalloween at UFFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Unfurnished room with private bathroom in 4/4 at Gainesville Place Apartments.Close to UF with bus every 20 minutes$454 mo.Free router and modem. 727-203-1261   11-3-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-30-15-15-5
Herring Realty3BR/1.5BA HOUSE on 1 ACRE. Located be-tween Trenton & Belle. Must see to appreci -
ate. $79,900. Call Lois Litchfield at 352-354-5341    11-2-5-5
Sperry Van Ness Moecker Realty Auctions11/30/15352 Acre Res Dev't Auction SaleSite: 2600 Fort Lane Rd, Geneva, FL 32732App'd for 44 Res Lots from 1.2-3.9 acresLake Views & access to Lake HarneySubject to Highest and Best Offer w/ LenderApproval +10% Buyer’s PremContact: Keith Kidwell or Will Reynosowww.svnmoecker.com, 954-234-8777, 954-252-1049           10-30-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
ACROSS
1 Birdbrain
8 Crummy
14 Annabella of
“Jungle Fever”
15 Producer
16 What each
successive
starting word ofthe answers tostarred clues is tothe starting wordthat precedes it
17 Equestrian’s
head cover
18 Newscaster
Lindström
19 *Popular clubs20 *Ty Cobb
specialties
24 The last Mrs.
Chaplin
25 Valuable
extraction
26 Pros with
schedules
30 Save
31 *Dressed down
35 Closing words
37 Hut
38 *Didn’t allow to
remain in, aspolitical office
42 Trouble43 Barely come
(through)
44 Box “b” on a W-2:
Abbr.
45 Magazine that
published
advance
excerpts fromStephen King’s“Firestarter”
46 *It’s ancient
history
50 *They might be
knocked down ina bar
54 Hamlin’s
caveman
55 Like bogeys56 What the start of
50-Across is to
the start of 19-
Across
60 Playing the
waiting game
61 Resort site
62 Pass63 Minimally
DOWN
1 Some email
enders
2 Dangerous, in a
way3 Writer who said
“The onlyabnormality is theincapacity to
love”
4 Hullabaloo5 Els with clubs
6 Ancient Indo-
European
7 Hydroelectric
facility
8 Pack up9 Five-time world
champion skaterCarol
10 1994 Costner
role
11 5 for B or 6 for C12 Orpheus, for one13 Scraps15 Elect
19 Leaping critter
20 Sleeps it off, with
“up”
21 Theatrical piece?
22 As scheduled
23 __ choy26 Windy City travel
org.
27 Colombia
neighbor
28 Actors John and
Sean
29 Naturally bright31 Good, in Hebrew
32 Golden __33 Musical org.
based in
Kawasaki
34 Electrical
measure
36 __-eared
39 Much of Nevada40 Emotional spells
41 Strand under a
microscope
45 Resist
46 Birdbrains
47 Silly48 Good-sized combo49 Wreck big time
50 Deal
51 Roundish
52 “__ Smile Be
Your Umbrella”:
old song
53 Boring type
56 Arkansas
governorHutchinson
57 Actress 
Vardalos
58 Abbr. near a tee59 Assembled
By Don Gagliardo©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/30/1510/30/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 30, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
Hiring Insurance Licensed Sales Producer
Active 4-40 or 2-20 License RequiredEmail Resume to JudyLocascio@Allstate.com     10-30-15-5-14
Gainesville Modern
Seeks developer for new website.
Prefer flat fee for initial rollout. Submit pro-
posal w/ references to mike@mhastings.com.    
11-2-15-5-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
Office cleaner needed after 5p m,t,th,f and sat and sun time varies...Home/apartment cleaner needed somewhere in between 8-5 m-f and wed,sat,sun time varies ....weekly pay and paying 8.25/hour..MUST Have A CAR with valid license and be able to pass a background/drug test...if interested please call 352-214-0868    11-4-5-14
NOW HIRING!Lloyd Clarke Sports is seeking an outstand-ing person to join our staff. Must work 1 day on the weekends and maintain 25-35 hours per week. Apply in person only.1504 NW 13 St. 1 Mile N of UF    11-4-5-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    10-30-1-14ATTN: Drivers- Great Pay and BonusesClean Truck w/ APUs and Invertors Family Company w/ 401k $2,000 Loyalty BonusCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com     10-30-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    10-30-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
● ● RENT A  DRAGON ● ●
on a 30ft gooseneck trailer for YOUR HOMECOMING PARADE FLOAT!
 GOOGLE 
"Monty, A Dog Gone Dragon" Call 352-284-3382        
11-2-15-3-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? 
Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    10-30-1-15Oxygen ConcentratorInogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-LastingBattery. Try It RISK-FREE! ForCash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    10-30-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
22 Tickets
FOR SALE
4 Seats for FL vs. GA,
Jax football game. Sec. 122, Row A. Price: $440 for all. Call 352-494-4882    10-30-15-3-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    10-30-1-14
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    10-30-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    10-30-1-16 
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    10-30-1-16
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Mary Wise and the 
Florida volleyball team is in Columbia, South Carolina to face the Gamecocks tonight at 7. The game will be broadcast on SEC Network+. By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
A team that had nothing to lose but al-
most everything to gain was awaiting the Florida soccer team Thursday night in Ath-ens, Georgia.
But in the end, the Gators prevailed.No. 6 Florida jumped out to an early lead and did not look back against the Bulldogs, 
winning 3-0 and claiming the program’s 
14th regular-season Southeastern Confer-
ence title and its ﬁ  rst since splitting the 
honors with Texas A&M in 2013. 
Florida (14-3-1, 8-2-1 SEC) was already 
locked in as one of the top three teams in 
the SEC tournament, but Georgia (5-11-1, 4-7-0 SEC) was ﬁ  ghting to stay alive.
The Bulldogs entered Thursday’s match on a two-game winning streak after defeat-
ing Vanderbilt and No. 16 Auburn in two 
late season road wins to keep the team’s 
playoff hopes alive.
But Georgia’s momentum heading into 
the match was quickly erased by the SEC’s 
top scoring team and the league’s top scor-
er, Florida forward Savannah Jordan.
Jordan helped lead the Gators to a 10-2 
shot advantage in the ﬁ  rst half and put two 
of her shots in the back of the net to send 
Florida into halftime with a 2-0 lead.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
SEC announces 2016 football schedule
The Southeastern Conference revealed the 2016 football schedule 
for the 14 conference teams. The Gators open the season against Massachusetts on Sept. 3 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Florida will play 11 of its 12 games in either Florida or T ennessee. Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan takes a shot during UF's 2-1 win agaisnt LSU on Oct. 11 at James G. Pressly Stadium. Jordan scored two goals in 
Florida's 3-0 win over Georgia on Thursday. 
Gators clinch outright SEC title  
CROSS COUNTRY
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
Embodying a willingness to 
rise to the occasion, three simple 
words — improvise, adapt and overcome — have been adopted as the unofﬁ  cial mantra of the United States Marine Corps.
To elaborate: Life rarely goes as 
planned. 
Luck favors the prepared, but 
existence has a habit of heaving a monkey wrench into the best laid plans of mice and men.
But that’s the nature of the 
beast: hope for the best, but pre-pare for the worst.
Redshirt freshman Mac Macoy 
has had the distinction of being on 
both sides of the line.
Growing up in Vestavia Hills, 
Alabama, Macoy bloomed into an 
elite cross country recruit despite the fact the sport wasn’t even his ﬁ  rst choice.“As a kid,” Macoy recounts, “I 
played basketball, I got into golf. When I was in middle school, I 
was never really super athletic, 
and I actually didn’t make the golf team, and so I had to do some-thing. ... Both my parents ran, and then it kind of took off from there.” Macoy rebounding from debilitating injuriesWith each team fresh off a bye 
week, Florida and Georgia class on Saturday in Jackson-
ville at “The World’s Largest 
Outdoor Cocktail Party.” 
The No. 11 Gators (6-1, 4-2 Southeastern Conference) have moved to the top of 
the SEC East while the Bulldogs (5-2, 3-2 
SEC) sit close behind in second. 
The Alligator Sports Brand Picks Col-
umn continues with this season’s eighth edition, and arguing this week’s Duke 
vs. Miami game is alligatorSports editor 
Graham Hall and Alligator managing/online editor Jordan McPherson.
Duke will win because...
Much has been made of Duke’s de-
fense, but quarterback Thomas Sirk is one of the conference’s premier passers. 
Sirk leads the Atlantic Coast Conference 
in total offense with 280.6 yards and isn’t afraid to run with the ball, as evi-denced by his game-winning two point 
conversion in quadruple overtime to 
down Virginia Tech last week. The Blue Devils aren’t accustomed to losing over the last two and a half seasons, having gone 23-4 in their last 27 regular season 
games. I don’t see Duke losing to a reel-
ing Miami squad. 
— Graham Hall
Miami will win because...
Oh wait, I'm supposed to have an ar-
gument for this? Maybe the Hurricanes will be motivated by the ﬁ  ring of Al 
Golden and come out ﬁ  red up. 
But probably not. 
— Jordan McPherson
Now onto the picks!
In ﬁ  rst place with a record of 34-29-1 
is Alligator managing/online editor Jor-
dan “Ferret” McPherson, whose tufts of 
fur he calls a beard makes him resemble 
a scurrying rodent. We considered call-ing you “sugarglider” but that seemed mean. 
In second place with a record of 33-
30-1 is the Palm Beach Post’s Anthony PICKS
SITE: EverBank Field (cap. 67,164)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 17
 SEE XC, PAGE 17SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 17UF downed UGA for the crownFRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
“People Are Mean” Chiang, who was 
appalled at the bitterness exchanged 
in a beat writer email this week. Time to accept that people say bad words sometimes, Chiang. You’re the kind of guy who sits in his house 
in unincorporated Dade County and 
watches TV with a V-Chip on. 
We have a two way tie for third 
place with a 32-31-1 records. First up is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “I think I’m going to die” Thompson, who felt so sick on Wednesday that he had to take a seat on the sidewalk 
following a media session. It’s OK 
Edgar, even if you die from a tummy ache you’ll still outlive Graham Hall.  
In a tie with Edgar is alligatorS-
ports assistant editor Luis “I love Al Golden” Torres, who was found sob-bing in the office following the for-mer Miami coach’s dismissal. 
We are all relieved he’s gone, 
Luis, because we don’t have to hear you talk about how smart and pro-fessional he is anymore. If he’s your 
role model, it explains a lot about 
your personality. 
In fifth place with a 31-32-1 re-
cord we have Gator Country’s Nick 
“Cheapskate” De La Torre, who has 
openly complained to coach Jim McElwain about Dunkin Donuts changing its “Happy Hour” policy. 
Come on Nick, you’re going to 
have to pony up for the quality cof-fee. Use some of that undeserved sal-ary Gator Country pays you. 
In sixth with a 29-34-1 record is 
alligatorSports editor Graham “Ra-
madan” Hall, who believed the Mus-
lim month of fasting was a Jewish tradition. 
How could you be so stupid, Graham? Oh wait, it’s that Alachua County education you received. 
In seventh place with a 28-35-1 
record we have 247Sports’ Thomas 
“Transcription King” Goldkamp, 
who sent out an email to the beat writers saying how much they suck at transcribing quotes. Hey Thomas, we appreciate your 
thoroughness and attention to detail, but maybe next time you and Mark Long can go through the emails and see who sent you the problematic 
section? Seems simple enough to us. 
And STILL in dead-ass-last with a 
piss-poor record of 25-38-1 is alliga-torSports’ staff writer Graham “Wall-
flower” Hack, who “enlightened” Edgar with NASCAR knowledge fol-lowing Wednesday’s morning media session. 
Hey Graham, nobody cares if Jeff 
Gordon wins his final race of his ca-reer. He’s trailer park trash, just like every NASCAR fan. 
PICKS,  from pg16
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UGA vs UF (-3)  UF  UF  UF  UF
Miss (-7.5) vs AU  MISS  MISS  MISS  MISSOkSt (-3) vs TTU  OKST  OKST  TTU  OKSTND (-10.5) vs T em  ND  ND  ND  TEMT enn (-9) vs UK  UK  TENN  UK  UKUSC (-6) vs Cal  USC  USC  CAL  CALClem (-10.5) vs NCSt  NCST  CLEM  CLEM  CLEMUNC (-3) vs Pitt  PITT  UNC  PITT  PITT
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UGA vs UF (-3)  UF  UF  UF  UF
Miss (-7.5) vs AU  MISS  MISS  MISS  MISSOkSt (-3) vs TTU  TTU  OKST  OKST                   OKST
ND (-10.5) vs T enn  TENN  UK  TENN  UKT enn (-9) vs UK  ND  CLEM  ND  CLEMUSC (-6) vs Cal  CAL  USC  USC  USCClem (-10.5) vs NCSt  CLEM  CLEM  CLEM  CLEMUNC (-3) vs Pitt  PITT  UNC  PITT  PITT“Took off” is arguably an understatement.
“He ran 9:07 for two miles as a junior in 
high school,” coach Paul Spangler said. “9:07 for two miles. He’s one of the top juniors in the country.”
Couple that with a blistering 4:15.98 split 
in the mile, and it becomes apparent that Mac was a veritable talent, flying on the terrain as if he had donned Hermes’ mythical talaria.
However, it was only a matter of time be-
fore it’d all crash back down to earth.
McCoy said the pain started in October 
2013.
“I had a similar injury that I think was, 
looking back, caused by my back. It was just a lot of weakness in my hips and lower back, and so I was injured pretty much all of my senior year," he said. 
A comeback attempt resulted in a stress 
fracture in his foot, sidelining the promising athlete for a four month chunk from March to July.
Finally healthy, he began training once 
again, only to fall victim to a back injury that was soon classified as "recurring."
“It was sort of actually hurting a lot more 
than it did in high school. And so, you know, I had to go to the doctor, and they found out that it was a stress fracture.”
His options? As Spangler put it: “They 
put him in a back brace and said ‘well if this doesn’t work, your options are to fuse the 
vertebrae together, and you never run again, 
or you never run and you be in pain’.”
Faced with a fork in the road, McCoy opt-
ed for an arduous circuit of physical therapy in an effort to banish his injury demons for good.“He was in a back brace for about six 
months…the guy just, I mean, worked his butt off to get healthy, was in the training room every day doing the exercises,” Span-gler said.
“Two different back braces. My hat goes 
off to that kid. Most runners, they would’ve quit the sport, to go through what he’s gone 
through.”
His dedication  is appar-
ent, gutting it out through 
the dark days of rehab.
“I would say that there 
were, there were points where I was very skeptical that I would ever compete at the NCAA level again. 
You know, I was hoping that I would just even be 
able to run, like, recreationally again, just be-cause I love running.”
As Macoy himself described it, “Yeah, 
there was definitely sometimes where I was really discouraged.”
But that’s the special thing about Mac — 
he stuck with it. 
He improvised. He adapted. He overcame adversity.And, with his name scribbled into the 
Gators’ Southeastern Conference roster, Ma-coy serves as living testimony to the fact that hard work triumphs over all.
“I’m a strong believer in God, you know,” 
Macoy said. “I believe that He put this injury 
in my life for a reason, and I don’t regret any 
of the hard work that I’ve had to do to get back to where I am.”
“He’s only been training for, like, five 
weeks,” Spangler noted.
“Shows you how talented he is.”XC,  from pg16Macoy almost quit the sport 
Jordan’s first goal came in the 21st 
minute on a play that looked like a routine 
passing drill.
The back line sent a ball to senior Lau-
ren Smith in the midfield. 
Smith tapped it to Meggie Dougherty 
Howard who then flicked it on to forward Brooke Sharp, the middle man in a fast-moving, one-touch passing sequence.
Sharp pushed the ball through two 
Georgia defenders and found Jordan, who 
slipped it to the right of the goalkeeper, 
Louise Hogrell.
Georgia’s Hogrell saved two shots in 
the first half but let the Gators’ lead dou-
ble on a blunder when she came off her 
line and tried to clear a bouncing ball out-
side of the penalty area.
Hogrell misplayed a ball that flew over 
Jordan and the defenders’ heads. 
As she has done so often this season, 
the Fayetteville, Georgia, native, sprinted after the bouncing ball with a headful of steam. 
Jordan challenged the keeper, put the 
ball through the goalie’s legs and easily 
placed the ball into the empty net.
The goals were Jordan’s SEC-leading 
18th and 19th of the year and the two-goal 
game marked her fifth multi-goal game of 
the year.
After the halftime break, the Gators 
didn’t let off the gas, increasing the mar-
gin for error by placing another shot into the back of the net.
In the 55th minute, senior defender Christen Westphal sent a free kick into the box toward Jordan and a push in the back resulted in the referee pointing to the pen-alty spot.
Junior midfielder Pamela Begic stepped 
up into the box and calmly placed the ball into the bottom left corner of the net, giv-ing the Gators a 3-0 lead.
Despite a closer second half in terms of 
shots for each team, Florida held on to get the shutout.
Coach Becky Burleigh said her team 
started the match with a good level of en-
ergy and created possession, wearing the 
Georgia defense down and giving UF its second straight SEC shutout.
“I do feel like that shutout is key,” Bur-
leigh said. “I think it just gives us more and more confidence the more we can keep a clean sheet.”
With the loss, Georgia moved to 0-6-0 
this season when trailing at the half.
The Gators continued their dominance 
over the Bulldogs, winning their ninth straight game against Georgia and sixth game in a row closing out the season.
Florida will play Wednesday in the SEC 
tournament in Orange Beach, Alabama.SOCCER,  from pg16UF clinched its 14th SEC title
Macoy
“I do feel like that shutout is key. I 
think it just gives us more and more 
confidence the more we can keep a 
clean sheet.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
has been through his share of ri-
valry games.
As an offensive coordinator at 
Alabama, he experienced the joy of winning the Iron Bowl three times in four years.
As head coach at Colora-
do State, he led the Rams to a 14-point victory against Colorado in 2014, the largest victory in CSU’s favor in the Rocky Moun-
tain Showdown since 1999.
And as an offensive coordina-
tor at Montana State, he failed to 
win against in-state rival Montana 
on all ﬁ  ve tries, leaving the Great 
Divide trophy with the Grizzlies.
“In case you can’t tell,” he 
said, “that one stings.”
And on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
— a Halloween affair — McElwain will be inducted into a new rivalry series with No. 11 Florida (6-1, 4-1 Southeastern Conference) tak-
ing on Georgia (5-2, 3-2 SEC) in 
Jacksonville. 
If you ask his team, the previ-
ous rivalry games McElwain’s ex-perienced pale in comparison to 
what awaits on Saturday. 
“I don’t think he’s ready for 
how the stadium is going to look, 
blue on one side and red on the 
other,” UF defensive back Nick 
Washington said. “It’s going to be exciting.”
Last year’s game is still fresh in 
the Gators’ minds.
Florida entered the game 3-3, 
essentially out of the conference race for the second year in a row.
Georgia led the SEC East pack, 
sitting 4-1 in conference play and No. 9 in the country.
But at the hands of the run 
game, the Gators pulled off the 
38-20 upset, UF’s ﬁ  rst win in the 
rivalry since 2010. 
“The atmosphere was crazy, 
the fans and all that,” sophomore Quincy Wilson said. 
“It’s a real big rivalry game. I 
think we just went in there and didn’t let any of the other stuff af-fect us, and we just came out with 
a win.”
While McElwain said rivalries 
are one of the highlights of col-
lege football, he knows Saturday’s game against the Bulldogs has 
more than just personal meaning.
The winner will gain control of 
the SEC East, a clear path to At-
lanta in sight.
But the Gators aren’t looking at 
it that way.
After pulling off the upset last 
season, Florida knows it needs to remain focused to come out with 
the win.
“We don’t want to fall in that 
trap where ‘Oh, we’ve got things 
in our hands, we just have to go 
out and beat them,’” offensive 
lineman Trip Thurman said. 
“No, we have to prepare the 
same way we have week in and week out up to this point.”
Added McElwain: “We’ve put 
ourselves in a position to where what we do is relevant. That’s kind of a neat thing. But it doesn’t 
mean anything if we don’t take 
care of what we need to do today to get ready for Saturday.”Gators headed to Jacksonville to face rival Bulldogs 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain participates in the pre-game Gator Walk before Florida’s 28-27 win over 
T ennessee on Sept. 26 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Florida Players to Watch
WR Antonio Callaway: 308 receiving yards, 19.2 yards per catch, three total touchdowns (two 
receiving, one punt return)
TE Jake McGee: 23 catches (third in SEC among tight ends), 200 yards, team-high-tying three 
receiving touchdowns
DL Jon Bullard: 34 tackles, 10 tackles for loss, 4.5 sacks
CB Jalen Tabor: team-best eight passes defended, two interceptions for touchdownP Johnny Townsend: 44.3 yards per punt (fourth in SEC), 12 punts of at least 50 yards, long of 61