We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 164 THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
Five NFL Rookies to watch for
From Amari Cooper to Jameis Winston, pg 17.
Gainesville to host crab, seafood festival
Admission is $10, pg 3.
Student Body Statute reforms pass ﬁ  rst reading 
despite call for postponement
Senators had 27 hrs to read 170 pages, pg 5.Read this week’s Avenue
Highlights include a new TV show based 
on Gainesville, the Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game and a review of “Trainwreck, ” pgs 
9-12.
CAMPUS
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
In a red hammock stretched 
from a pine to a magnolia tree, 
Douglas Tam sat alone.
But then some of his friends 
from Campus Crusade for Christ, or CRU, drifted over to his spot on Plaza of the Americas and settled into their own hammocks.
Brightly colored Eagle Nest 
Outﬁ  tters (ENO) and Grand Trunk hammocks regularly pepper the lawn in front of Library West, but Wednesday was different. 
It was National Hammock Day, 
and the UF Hammock Club called students to celebrate.
“If people just hang around, 
they’ll never really know each other super well,” said Tam, wear-ing an orange “UF Hammock Hang 
2015” shirt.
The goal, he said, is for people 
to get outside and enjoy the day, 
and about 15 people came out to 
the plaza to do so.
“I really like the community as-
pects of a lot of things,” said Tam, 
a 21-year-old in UF’s pharmacy Hammocks hang at Plaza
By Dana Hatchett 
Alligator Staff Writer
The construction of UF’s newest residence 
hall is almost complete. 
A large, ﬁ  ve-story red brick building and 
glass windows are now visible on the construc-
tion site of UF’s newest residence hall, Inﬁ  nity 
Hall, located in UF’s Innovation Square.    
“UF Department of Housing and Residence 
Education staff and Inter-Residence Hall As-sociation (IRHA) student leaders are excited 
about this new facility in the Innovation Square area of Gainesville and the university’s partnership with Signet Enterprises,” Sharon Blansett, assistant to the associate vice presi-dent for Student Affairs, wrote in an email.     
Signet Development, in charge of the devel-
opment of Inﬁ  nity Hall, and construction ﬁ  rm Brasﬁ  eld & Gorrie began work on the $15.9 million residence hall in 2014. 
“I think it’s always good to have newer housing on campus,” said Samantha Patten, a 17-year-old marketing freshman. “Housing at UF is kind of older which I think makes the campus looks (sic) more beautiful, but it is also kind of getting outdated.”
Inﬁ  nity Hall will have a capacity of 308 
residents, which includes 8 single rooms, 16 single-suite rooms, 48 double suite rooms, and 20 four-person-suite rooms. The hall will be 90,000 square feet in total. 
Single rooms will cost $3,947, double rooms 
cost $3,729, and super suites cost $3,839 per semester. 
According to Brasﬁ  eld & Gorrie’s website, 
Inﬁ  nity Hall will be the nation’s ﬁ  rst entrepre-neurial-based academic residential commu-nity. The building will support UF’s entrepre-neurship programs, a resident apartment and 
a maintenance shop. The project will provide 
four ﬂ  oors of residence suites, team meeting rooms and an entertainment room. 
Inﬁ  nity Hall will open in full capacity at the 
same time as all UF residence halls in August 2015. $16 million Inﬁ  nity Hall set to open for students in FallBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
UF President Kent Fuchs said he 
drinks between ﬁ  ve and 10 cups of coffee every day.
Some of it comes from the ﬁ  ve 
Starbucks on campus. Some of it 
he makes at home in an espresso 
machine he received as a gift from former students.
And while Fuchs’ afﬁ  nity for the 
caffeinated beverage is hard to tell behind his calm and collected de-meanor, his passion for interacting with students is hard to miss.
Since becoming UF’s 12th presi-
dent on Jan. 1, Fuchs has made it a goal to meet as many students as possible. Six months later, Fuchs admits he has yet to meet everyone but said he makes it a purpose to be as visible on campus as possible.
He walks around campus, in-
troducing himself to anyone he sees. He keeps up to date with his 
nearly 5,000 Twitter followers and 
exchanges emails with students on a daily basis. And he’s not afraid to take a selﬁ  e when asked.
“I feel like I’ve really been able 
to get a sense of the students, and I think the students know that I am intentionally accessible,” Fuchs said.
Student Body President Joselin 
Padron-Rasines said she has en-joyed working with Fuchs, who she described as vibrant and outgoing.
“He’s not tucked away in his of-
ﬁ  ce in Tigert Hall,” Padron-Rasines said. “He makes an effort to con-nect with the students.”
As Fuchs prepares for his ﬁ  rst 
Fall semester as president, he said he plans to continue building re-lationships. In addition to build-
ing better personal bonds with the 
state legislatures, Fuchs said he wants to meet more extensively with UF’s deans and department 
chairs in order to better ﬁ  nd out each college’s immediate and long-term goals.
Fuchs also 
said he is ex-cited to see how his goal-setting task force, 
which is set to release a draft of its goals Friday, progresses.
“This will give us a clear road-
map and timeline of what we want 
to accomplish on behalf of the uni-
versity,” he said.
Fuchs said he still has a lot to 
learn as he transitions to the ﬁ  nal half of his ﬁ  rst year as UF’s presi-dent.
“But if anything, that’s one of 
the most enjoyable parts of my job,” he said.
And as Fuchs continues to 
learn, he’ll more than likely have a cup of coffee by his side as he takes in everything.
“A university is only as strong 
as its coffee,” Fuchs said.Kent Fuchs: The man 
behind the coﬀ  ee cup
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Douglas T am, a 21 -year- old UF pharmacy student, prepares to set up a hammock above Julie Anne Christ-
mas, an 18 -year- old UF business and theatre freshman, and Nick Moreno, a 20- year- old UF mechanical en-gineering junior. About 15 people hung hammocks Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas to celebrate National Hammock Day.
SEE HAMMOCK,  PAGE 8
“I think it’s always good to have newer 
housing on campus.”
Samantha Patten
UF marketing freshmanIt can hold 308 residentsFUN FUCHS FACTS
 As he revealed during the 
Spring commencement cere-mony, he has Siri on his iPhone refer to him as “Foxy Gator. ”
 His favorite restaurants in Gainesville, at least for this week, are Reggae Shack and Southern Charm.Fuchs
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 164
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Creative B Movie Series: “One 
Million Years B.C.”
Join a panel of scientists, artists and special effects experts as we view and discuss “One Million Years B.C.” (1966) (PG) Friday at 7 p.m. The Florida Museum of Natural History and Creative B will host a free movie screening and ex-plore the balance between sci-
ence and art with our expert 
panel. UF students receive free admis-sion to “A T. rex Named Sue” with their Gator 1 Card. The Museum will be open to the 
public from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Parental discretion is advised. 
For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  90° LOW  78°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Get 4 Years of Studen/t.finaStuden/t.finaNewNew
EditionEdition
Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
(save 10%)
July 10thAugust 17th
June 12th
(352) 376-4482Contact your sales rep today 
and let incoming students 
know you’re ready for business 
in the New Student Edition!oﬀ
oﬀ
Save up toSave up to
10%
10%
10%oﬀ
advertising@alligator.org(save 7%)
(save 7%)
July 31st
(save 5%)
ADMISSION IS $10.
By Lisandranette Rios
Alligator Contributing Writer
 More than 24,000 crabs, that’s 
400 to 500 bushels, will be invading 
Gainesville for the city’s ﬁ  rst blue crab and seafood festival at the end of this month.
Save Our City Initiative, a local non-
proﬁ  t organization, and All Action En-tertainment will  host the festival at the Alachua County Fairgrounds Saturday from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.  The family-friendly event has already  attracted vendors and attendees  from Georgia, South Carolina, New Orleans and Mi-ami, said Robert Dore, the president of 
Save Our City Initiative.
Dore said the event will beneﬁ  t the 
community by bringing a family event 
to the area, raising money for programs and stimulating the local economy.
 “We had to come up with a way to 
give back to our community through Save Our City Initiative, but this crab fest is the main nucleus to help raise those funds,” said Dore.
Admission will be $10 and park-
ing will be $5. Children 5 or younger 
will get in for free. Tickets can be pur-
chased at the event or online at event-brite.com. Tickets and parking fees from the festival will go to Save Our City Initiative. To eat at the festival, at-tendees will have to pay for food and drink from the vendors.
During the festival, some vendors 
will compete in a gentleman’s crab 
king competition.  Guest judges will se-
lect the winner based on the presenta-tion and taste of a vendor’s crab dish, Dore said. 
Will Gent, a member of All Action 
Entertainment, said Gainesville needs events which beneﬁ  t the community and not just UF.
“That’s what All Action Entertain-
ment and Save Our City does,” Gent said. “We bring everything back to the community.”Gainesville to host crab 
and seafood festival RESEARCH
By Ashley Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you want to avoid being 
rude, stay away from rude people.
According to a UF study, people 
who experience rudeness in the 
workplace become rude in subse-
quent interactions with others. 
“Basically what we’re see-
ing here is this contagious nature 
of rudeness,” said Trevor Foulk, 
a lead author of the study and a 
doctoral student in management at 
UF’s Warrington College of Busi-
ness Administration.
Foulk and his co-authors con-
ducted a seven-week seminar that studied the effects of rudeness be-tween classmates. Over the course of the study, 90 graduate students engaged in “negotiation exercises” among their peers. After interact-
ing with each other,  participants 
would rate how rude they felt their partner was during the negotia-tion.
Researchers observed that when participants experienced rudeness, it caused them to be-come more rude in following in-teractions.
Foulk said people should get 
away from rude co-workers be-cause evidence suggests it’s affect-ing their brains in ways they can’t 
control.
“Just one person, one person 
being rude, can have this effect,” 
he said.
Foulk said workplaces don’t 
welcome extreme negative behav-iors, but they tolerate rudeness, which may hurt worker perfor-mance.
David Fowler, the ofﬁ  ce man-
ager for UF’s department of psy-chology, said he agrees.
In his 20 years as a faculty member at UF, he has experienced rude behavior from his co-work-ers. 
“It will bother me a little bit, 
but I try to blow it off and let it go the best I can,” he said.
Foulk said rudeness may need 
to be put in the category of behav-iors employers don’t accept, be-haviors employees get in trouble for or worse, ﬁ  red. 
He said there is a lot of research 
that shows how rude behavior af-fects the workplace, and the next step is to look at interventions and ways people can deal with rude 
behavior. 
Twenty-year-old electrical en-
gineering student Hayden Glass-
cock has been a sandwich artist for six months at Hogan’s Great Sandwiches located on Northwest 13th Street. The Santa Fe sopho-more said he doesn’t react when co-workers are rude to him.
“There’s no point in reacting to 
negative energy, negative vibes,” he said.   Study shines light on rudeness
“Basically what we’re seeing 
here is this contagious 
nature of rudeness.”
Trevor Foulk
Lead author of the study4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
The UF Student Senate has two meet-
ings remaining this Summer, and while the 
chamber has had the opportunity to ap-prove budgets and pass more than a dozen resolutions, it has yet to have the chance to 
approve all of the Executive Branch agency 
heads.
This is due to the fact that the Executive 
Committee has not approved of nomina-tions since the ﬁ  nal Senate meeting of the Spring semester on April 21, a span of 93 days.Six of the 13 agency head positions — 
Accent chairperson, Action SG chairperson, 
Chomp the Vote director, External Affairs 
director, Student Government Productions chairperson and Student Government Pro-ductions comptroller — are vacant.
Senate President Davis Bean said at 
Tuesday’s Senate meeting that the Ex-ecutive Committee — which consists of Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, Vice President Kevin Doan, Trea-
surer Nicholas Carre, Senate Pro-Tempore 
Leah Miller, Budget and Appropriations Chairman Smith Meyers and Bean — has met just once this summer.
With the vacancies, Bean said there is about $1.5 million that is unable to be touched until the positions are ﬁ  lled.
“It’s pretty upsetting that is the case in 
fact,” Bean said at Tuesday’s meeting, “but what could be even more upsetting is that most of the students on campus have no idea that this is happening.”
The group met twice in April — before 
Padron-Rasines, Doan and Carre were ofﬁ  -cially in their respective positions as presi-dent, vice president and treasurer — to 
deliberate and determine the ﬁ  rst round of 
nominations, Padron-Rasines said.
Of the 13 agency heads nominees pre-
sented to Senate at that April 21 meeting, seven were approved.Padron-Rasines said there has been a 
lot of unwillingness to move forward but 
said future meetings will be related to in-
terviewing nominees.
She added there will be interviews for 
the supervisor of elections, election com-missioners and Supreme Court, which the Executive Branch has the sole power to nominate.
Minority Party Leader Michael Christ 
(Access, Graduate) said compromise is 
needed from both sides in order for any 
nominations to go through.
“A solution for the students will come,” 
Christ said.
Six agency heads still vacant as Summer winds down
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
The UF Student Senate has an-
other budget to approve.
Four weeks after the Senate 
chambers approved the more than $20 million 2015-2016 Activity and 
Service Fee Budget, the Budget and 
Appropriations Committee has al-ready ﬁ  nished its proposal for the 2016-2017 budget, which was pre-sented at Tuesday’s Senate meeting.The nine-person committee, led 
by Chairman Smith Meyers, and Stu-
dent Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre 
held meetings with the “Big 4” orga-nizations — Student Government, Rec Sports, the Reitz Union and Stu-dent Activities and Involvement — over the past month.
The budget as outlined is worth 
slightly more than $20.7 million. This represents a 3.33 percent in-
crease from the 2015-2016 budget, 
which is less than the 4.25 percent maximum increase the committee was allotted.Because the money for the budget 
comes directly from students, Mey-ers said the goal going into the meet-ings was ﬁ  nding the right balance between offering quality services for UF students while also not making the burden of paying for education too much for students to handle.“I think this budget is the best 
manifestation of that vision,” Mey-
ers said.
The budget is approximately bro-
ken down as follows:
Student Government:  $5.4 
million, a 0.08 percent decrease from 
the 2015-2016 budget.
Recreational Sports: $6.9 
million, a 4.25 percent increase.
Reitz Union:  $7 million, a 4.25 
percent increase.
Student Activities and In-
volvement:  $1.4 million, an 8.18 
percent increase.First reading of the budget will 
be heard at next Tuesday’s meeting following the second reading of the seven sets of Student Body Statute reforms.
Meyers said it was great working 
with Carre to create the budget.
“Once again, similar to the ‘15-
‘16 amended (budget), it was an 
excellent example of the different 
branches of Student Government working together to create a budget that beneﬁ  ts the students and does so in a ﬁ  scally responsible manner,” Meyers said.Student Senate to hear budget for 2016 academic year
“I think the budget is the best 
manifestation of that vision.”
Smith Meyers
Budget and Appropriations 
Committee ChairmanTHURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Krishna Mantra
Krishna devotee Audrey Hunsicker, 20, dances while 
chanting the Hare Krishna mantra on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. A group of six devotees chanted and played musical instruments in a practice called Kirtan.
SENATORS HAD 27 HOURS 
TO LOOK OVER 170 PAGES 
BEFORE TUESDAY’S MEETING.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Debate ﬁ  lled the air during Tuesday’s 
Student Senate meeting as the chamber 
discussed seven sets of Student Body 
Statute reforms.
While the reforms passed through 
ﬁ  rst reading by a majority vote, a large portion of the debate focused on the lack 
of preparedness to debate the reforms 
and whether the reforms should have 
even been discussed.
Senators received the proposed re-
forms — 170 pages worth of documenta-
tion divided into seven chapters — just before 4 p.m. Monday, about 27 hours 
prior to the meeting.
Ty Robare, chairman of the Com-
prehensive Statute Reform Ad-hoc com-mittee, said the group met seven times 
over the course of nine weeks, spending about 15 hours overall on the reforms. 
The committee is still ﬁ  nalizing the 800 
codes, which serve as the eighth chapter 
of reforms. The 13-member committee 
spent the 15 hours making revisions to current codes and adding amendments 
where it saw ﬁ  t.
Some changes were small, such as 
the addition and removal of the word “student” from different lines. Others, 
however, were more complex and have 
larger impacts, such as a set in the 700 
codes requiring a mandatory Student 
Government-sponsored debate during 
the Spring election cycle.
Motions to refer the seven sets of 
reforms to the Judiciary committee and to postpone the ﬁ  rst readings until next 
Tuesday’s Senate meeting were both re-
jected.
The Senate went through a full debate 
on the 100 codes — the ﬁ  rst of the seven 
chapters presented for ﬁ  rst reading — 
during which time one amendment had 
to be made. The other six chapters were 
heard as a block.
“I feel like there has been adequate 
time (to look over the reforms),” Robare said. “Although, now that there is a mo-
tion to hear them as a block, the intent is to allow for there to be just as healthy of a debate next week.”
Rules and Ethics Committee Chair-
woman and statute reform committee member Maddie McClinton (Swamp, 
Education) said even if senators were 
not able to read all the revisions in the 
27-hour period, they had the opportunity 
to attend the meetings and hear each de-
bate being discussed.
“Not a single person has addressed 
me in these past nine weeks,” she said.
Daniella Saetta (Access, Graduate), 
said it would have been more beneﬁ  -
cial for the Senate as a whole if Robare 
and the committee to give a presentation 
about the reforms — similar to what the 
Budget and Appropriations committee 
does before ﬁ  rst readings of any budgets.
This, coupled with the fact that there 
are still two Senate meetings remaining in the Summer, would allow for senators 
to have a better grasp of the revisions the 
committee is proposing and still have the 
chance to pass the reform recommenda-
tions before the semester ends, she said.
“There’s no hurry,” she said. “I don’t 
know why there’s such a rush to go into this bill.”
Second readings will be held at next 
Tuesday’s meeting. If the seven sets of codes — each of which garners its own 
set of debates — are approved, the revi-
sions will be carried out.Student Body Statute reforms pass ﬁ  rst 
reading despite call for postponement
“I feel like there has been 
adequate time (to look over the 
reforms).”
Ty Robare
Comprehensive Statute Reform Ad-
hoc Committee chairmanThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
We’re nearing the end stretch of the summer semesters and 
I’m sure you readers are aching to make the days count. Let us 
keep those spirits up with another riveting edition of …
 Darts and Laurels
So I’m sure many of us have heard of that dreadful busi-
ness in Chattanooga, Tennessee, whereupon ﬁ  ve brave ser-
vice members lost their lives in a senseless shooting.
Bless their souls.However, did you know that some of these brave ser-
vicemen had evacuated the naval training center where part of the shooting took place, some of them helping others 
scale a fence, before running back into shooter’s sights in 
order to draw his ﬁ  re away from a larger group?
Where we’re from, that’s called self-sacriﬁ  ce, and we no 
longer feel that kind of sacriﬁ  ce merits the title of “victim.” Those servicemen were heroes, and we’re rewarding them 
a posthumous laurel for their sacriﬁ  ce.
All right, now that we’re ﬁ  nished wiping away our tears 
it’s time to shed a few more.
Over the weekend Gainesville lost one of its more famous 
(or infamous depending on who you ask) entrepreneurs. 
Josh Greenberg, co-founder of Grooveshark, was found 
dead upon his bed from reasons yet unknown to us. All we know is that the Gainesville Police Department does not suspect foul play, and they are currently waiting on toxicol-
ogy reports. 
No matter what you thought of the fellow’s business 
practices, many students have now lost a promising role 
model in the arena of personal ambitions and a young man 
with bright ideas is now dead. 
That gets a dart for being very sad.
All right, all right. We’ll stop with the sad news and return to the mildly 
questionable.
Next up, Ferguson. As in Ferguson the town where a 
certain shooting raised riots and summoned forth a reener-gized racial debate still going on today. 
They recently hired a new African-American police chief. 
Andre Anderson will be taking his place as the city’s interim police chief. 
We’re not sure if the appointment was merely a massive 
public relations Band-Aid on the events from August  
or an actual step forward in terms of the racial contro-
versy, so we’re therefore unable to quite decide whether to dart or laurel the matter. 
We’ll leave it to you to decide and carve destiny’s will 
yourself upon the carapace of the news headlines.
Lastly, parents shouldn’t get intoxicated and neglect 
their children. That’s what we call irresponsibility, and we have no desire to further the cause of such. Erica Donald-son, you do not simply leave a child playing at the edge of a river while you dance and sing. 
Now we’re not saying that Erica Donaldson was on drugs 
at the time, we’re just saying that deputies found a syringe, a metal spoon and an open package of Suboxone, a drug used to treat opiate addiction, among her belongings when 
deputies arrested her. 
While her roughly 2-year-old daughter was playing in 
a river in soiled underwear, Donaldson was dancing and 
singing. 
For obvious reasons, that gets a nice, sterilized dart.In the early 2000s, the refrain “We will not 
negotiate with terrorists” proved popular among conservatives. With the nation still reeling from the pain of the Sept. 11 attacks — and our military then deeply 
embedded in Iraq and Afghanistan — this oft-repeated mantra served no purpose other than to undermine the multitude of criticisms lob-bied against President George W. Bush’s “War on Terror.” 
“We will not negotiate with terrorists” ignores the 
geopolitical complexities of the Middle East and oper-
ates under the bullheaded assumption that might makes right.
The ever-mounting threat posed by the Islamic State 
group speaks to the abject failure of the “we will not negotiate with terrorists” policy. 
As I understood politics at the time, diplomacy and 
deal breaking were far better alternatives to military ac-
tion.
If negotiations and arbitration are indeed preferable, 
why does the recent deal brokered with Iran ﬁ  ll me with 
dread? 
Upon the completion of the deal on July 14, I initially 
felt satisﬁ  ed; compromised diplomacy, even with the most abhorrent of political actors, is better than noth-ing at all. 
On my Facebook, I shared a 2012 piece published by 
Foreign Affairs titled “Why Iran Should Get the Bomb.” Past the provocative title, the piece essentially argued that if Iran were to develop a nuclear weapon, it would bring stability to the Middle East with Iran locking itself 
in a state of deterrence with Israel.
On ﬁ  rst read, this made perfect sense. 
As I argued with my peers, Iran would prefer to be-
come prosperous due to the lifting of sanctions rela-tive to engaging in an ideological war with Israel — as 
much as the Iranian government likes to tout its status as an Islamic Republic and denounce the very 
existence of Israel, it only makes sense that the country would be more immediately con-
cerned with the well-being of its own citizens 
than the destruction of others.
But then I kept reading and discussing. This past Monday, a friend of mine made a 
particularly chilling observation: given Iran’s blatant ﬁ  nancial sponsorship of Hamas, the Gaza Strip-based terror group that seeks the 
destruction of the Jewish state, what would stop Iran from providing the terrorist organization with a nuclear 
weapon to be snuck into Israel? 
I then felt quite foolish for not even considering the 
idea.
When thinking about international relations — at 
least as they pertained to this situation — I had erro-
neously assumed governments are bound by mutually agreed upon rules. 
As any basic world history lesson would teach, this 
is far from the case.
Although I have innumerable qualms with Israeli 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the Likud Party, I fully support the continued existence of Israel. I also prefer dialogue and debate to gunﬁ  re and explo-
sions. 
But as for where I stand on the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action, I remain unsure. 
Agreement or not, Iran will continue to pursue its 
nuclear interests as well as fund terrorist groups across the Middle East; in that regard, something (an agree-
ment) is better than nothing (unchecked aggressions). 
I just wish that reading the details of the deal didn’t 
leave me with a sinking pit in my stomach.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.Ambiguity as foreign policy can result in trouble
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
I’ve always feared a "Minority Report" sit-
uation. You know, when Tom Cruise tries 
to make a run for it, but the bad guys are in the government so they take control of his car? They lock him inside his own car, 
lock all the controls and set the car to return to police headquarters. Tom is forced to kick out a window and huff it on foot in trafﬁ  c. 
If you’re unfamiliar with the ﬂ  ick, or just 
don’t remember, let me take you through 
a brief summary. It takes place in the not-so-distant future and Tom Cruise has been framed for murder. There are no passwords, no keys; you use retinal scanning for every-thing. To escape the system altogether Tom has to get a full eye transplant, which by the way, is not real.  It’s all very dramatic, but point being that it is a dark look at remote computer control and how technology can turn on you.
Back in the real world, Chrysler is in the 
news because a team of professional hackers 
was able to remotely take control of one of their vehicles.
Tuesday, Wired Magazine released a video 
of Charlie Miller, a security engineer at Twit-ter, and Chris Valasek, the director of vehicle safety research at IOActive, remotely hacking a 2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee. Miller and Valasek were able to control the Jeep’s steering, brakes, elec-tronic systems, door locks, wind-shield wipers and transmission system, disabling the driver from 
controlling the vehicle at all.
The attackers were able to do 
this through the Internet via the 
Jeep’s entertainment system from their laptops that could have been anywhere in the country. The hackers in-formed Chrysler of the vulnerability caused by the Uconnect wireless system that con-nects to the Sprint cellphone network. 
Uconnect is installed on many of Fiat 
Chrysler Automobiles’ cars, trucks and SUVs. Chrysler has released a patch for the issue, but there are still thousands of vulnerable ve-hicles on the road.
In 2013 Miller and Valasek hacked a Ford 
Escape and a Toyota Prius from the backseat. They are continuing to do as much research as they can with their resources, but ulti-
mately auto manufacturers need to step it up. 
Chrysler may be in the news today, but that doesn’t mean other manufacturers aren't hav-ing these types of issues.
In general, are we as consumers in the digital age asking for it? Many new cars now come with blind-spot de-tection warnings and the ability to parallel park on their own. We’ve known for some time that wireless key fobs could be hacked. They use 
low range radio signals and with a 
transmitter attached to a laptop, an antenna and an ampliﬁ  er, they can be hacked and their range ex-tended.
Jaguar Land Rover recently unveiled a pro-
totype Range Rover Sport that could be con-trolled through a smartphone app — the very thing lawmakers and the media are currently 
seeing as a threat.
On Tuesday, Sens. Edward J. Markey and 
Richard Blumenthal proposed a new bill that 
would address the vulnerabilities created by over-connected cars. The bill calls for the Na-tional Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety Administration to establish standards that will protect driv-ers’ data and secure cars.
“Rushing to roll out the next big thing, au-
tomakers have left cars unlocked to hackers and data-trackers,” said Blumenthal in a joint statement released with Markey on Tuesday. “This common-sense legislation protects the public against cybercriminals who exploit ex-citing advances in technology like self-driving and wireless connected cars. Federal law must provide minimum standards and safe-guards that keep hackers out of drivers’ pri-vate data lanes. Security and safety need not be sacriﬁ  ced for the convenience and promise 
of wireless progress.”
People have been able to remotely start 
their vehicles for years now; surely we must 
have seen this coming.
As a perpetually paranoid person I’m not 
taking any chances. I’ve already mentioned that I am not very interested in purchasing a brand new car.
But for every paranoid, annoyed with 
the digital age person, there is a handful of people who only care about convenience, are indifferent, or are mainly concerned with the ﬂ  ash and glitter of the newest tech. Some just don’t want to parallel park or they just want to show off what their new car can do. Either way, consumer demand is what has led us to this problem.
I’ll never forget driving a group of friends 
home one night and hearing one of them say, “I hate driving. I can’t wait until cars can just drive themselves.”
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Thursdays.
Who wants to hack your car? I don’t know, but I’d rather not give them the optionColumn
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
school.
Some of the first hammockers 
to flock to Douglas were friends 
Molly Riall, a math sophomore; Maria Cirillo, a psychology sopho-more; and Julie Christmas, a the-atre and business freshman.
“Doug’s the champ,” Riall said 
as he worked on stacking two hammocks above his red one and welcomed other hammockers.
Riall started to say that she 
expected the event to be hot and sticky. Cirillo interrupted her and said, “fun.”
“Fun,” Riall reaffirmed.
Tam said he is excited to see the 
social media response. The Ham-
mock Club has been promoting the event on Facebook and Instagram, encouraging students to tag photos 
with #UFHammockDay.Tam said the idea to start a 
campus hammock club began 
when his friends got hammocks 
around Christmas.  
In the Spring, the group started 
ENO-Trunk Tuesdays, a term Tam 
and his friends coined to refer to 
their weekly gatherings on Plaza. 
Both ENO and Grand Trunk brand hammocks — and their owners — were welcomed.
ENO-Trunk Tuesdays started 
off small, Tam said. But as the se-mester progressed, what started off as a group of five sometimes drew in about a dozen hammockers.
“It really just kind of took off,” 
he said.
The UF Hammock Club will be 
official in the Fall, Tam said. 
The group will connect fellow 
hammockers through events and trips. Students can expect to hang out on campus, as well as in the community, like this past Spring’s UF Hammock Hang in Westside Park.
A camping or beach trip is also 
a possibility, Tam said.
As the afternoon progressed, 
small bands of friends made their 
way to the trees.
A group of three settled into 
their hammocks. 
Among them was Alexa Bled-
soe, who graduated in Spring and is working over the summer.
“(I’m) just hanging out over the 
summer — literally,” she said from 
her hammock.
She and her friend Megan Beck-
er hammocked in their church’s prayer room. Becker said she’s also hammocked in the church at-tic.
Bledsoe, Becker and Becker’s 
longtime friend Kalin Gabbert, 19, laughed and lounged.Becker, they said, regularly falls 
out of her hammock.
“She fell out once today,” Bled-
soe said.But Becker laughs it off.“It’s still fun,” she said. “It adds 
a little humor to it.”
HAMMOCK,  from pg 1The event attracted about 15 people to the Plaza of the Americas
CAMPUS
Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
ppotestades@alligator.org 
The day UF admissions released 
its decisions for freshmen applica-
tions was the day Stephanie Latour had been waiting for. UF was her dream school, and she couldn’t wait to see the results. 
But when she opened the admis-
sions letter, she got an answer she didn’t expect.
The letter told her she was not of-
fered admission to the program she 
applied for, but she was instead of-
fered admission into UF’s Pathway 
to Campus Enrollment program, where students must first complete 60 credits in UF Online before they 
can transition to the UF residential 
campus.
“I was kind of disappointed at first,” Latour, 18, said. “I took it as a rejection.”
That was the first time she had 
ever heard about the PaCE program, 
but after doing some more research and speaking to a UF adviser, La-
tour decided to accept the offer.
“I think the major difficulty was 
the lack of understanding on the 
part of the students given the oppor-tunity,” said Andrew McCullough, 
the associate provost of teaching 
and technology.
For many students and parents, 
the decision letter was the first time 
they had ever heard of the program, 
he said.
Out of the 3,118 offered admis-
sion for PaCE, only 273 accepted the 
offer, said Andrea Felder, the direc-
tor of freshman and international 
admissions. 
“We have already made chang-es,” she said. 
This year’s applicants will be 
more aware of their options, she 
said.
For Latour, accepting PaCE ad-
mission was the best option. She 
graduated high school with a lot of 
college credits, so she would only 
have to spend the minimum of two 
semesters taking online classes be-fore being able to transition to cam-
pus. 
If she decided to go with a dif-
ferent university and transfer to 
UF later, that would take at least 
two years, and she still wouldn’t 
be guaranteed admission into her 
dream school, she said.
“The underlying rationale was to 
provide access to those who would 
like to become a Gator but were not 
admitted in the residence program 
because we ran out of space,” Mc-Collough said.
While taking the online portion 
of the program, PaCE students will pay the UF Online tuition amount, 
which is 75 percent of the cost of regular tuition. Once they transition 
to campus, they will begin to pay 
regular tuition, Felder said. 
While the program offers more 
than 60 majors from seven colleg-es at UF, it provides less flexibility 
when it comes to switching majors
If PaCE students decide to switch 
majors, they need to choose a ma-
jor offered by PaCE or UF Online. 
Those who otherwise major in pro-
grams outside of PaCE must apply 
to UF as a regular transfer after 
completing their online credits. 
“It’s definitely not for every-
body,” Latour said. “To do it, you definitely have to be clear in what 
you want.”PaCE program has low admittance rate for inaugural year
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
Julie Ann Christmas (top), 18 , and Molly Riall, 19, laugh on the Plaza 
of the Americas on Wednesday. They hung with friends in a column four hammocks high.
LEFT:
From left, Alexa Bledsoe, 23; Megan Becker, 19; and Kalin Gabbert, 19, hang out on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.COLLEGES INCLUDED IN 
THE PACE PROGRAM: 
College of Agriculture 
and Life Sciences
College of Design, 
Construction and Planning
College of Journalism 
and Communications
College of Health and 
Human Performance
College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences 
College of the Arts
Warrington College of 
Business AdministrationKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Trainwreck ﬁ  lm is Hollywood’s latest co-medic gem
Solidiﬁ  ed Amy Schumer as this year’s breakout comedian, pg. 12.Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game: Almost Famous - 
pg. 10
Off the Record: Australian band T ame Impala - pg. 11IT WILL AIR IN AUGUST. 
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
CMT is capturing “the ‘ville” in a new doc-
umentary-style reality television series titled 
“Gainesville.”
The drama, which will air Aug. 20 at 10 
p.m. on CMT, will depict the lives of seven 
young adults transitioning into the real world 
and struggling to ﬁ  nd their places in life.
When executive producers and UF alumni 
Yoav Attias and Nicholas Burnett decided to work on a show that shared a central theme in both of their lives, the choice was obvious: Gainesville.
Attias, 34, and Burnett, 33, spent seven 
years in Gainesville where they both attended 
law school. 
After Attias began working in television 
in New York City, he prompted Burnett, his 
childhood friend, to join him. 
The pair then sought different networks to 
brainstorm with.
“CMT, at the time, had a show called ‘Par-
ty Down South,’” Burnett said. “It was some-thing young but a little bit more about people 
going through trials and tribulations.”
“Gainesville,” which is produced by 
Wheels Off Entertainment, went through a 
speedy production. 
Attias said it was much quicker than usual 
to go through all of the elements involved in a new television show.
The idea was to cast relatable individuals. 
The ﬁ  rst individual to be casted was Andreya Giansanti.
“We didn’t want the same character sev-
en times,” Attias said. “She (Giansanti) was 
really great. She wore her emotions on her 
sleeves.”
Viewers can expect one very important 
theme: truth.
The show brings a raw image of real life to 
the screen in something that viewers can ap-preciate as being honest and sincere.
“You have to get an honest depiction of 
what’s playing out,” Attias said. “That’ll be powerful television.”
The show doesn’t focus on Gainesville be-
ing a college town. Instead, it navigates away from that theme and focuses on coming of age, Attias said. 
“It’s a balance,” Burnett said. “It’s very 
diverse.”
Other characters in the show add to the 
diversity, which creates a collective melting pot of personalities.
Local viewers may sense some familiarity, as “Gainesville” features some of the city’s notable hotspots, such as Gator City, The Swamp, the Hippodrome State Theatre and other scenery shots that will provide view-ers with a genuine feel of Gainesville, Burnett said. 
“One thing we take pride in is the aesthet-
ics of the show,” Burnett said. “You’ll notice that it has a look like ‘Friday Night Lights.’”
Attias said the process of ﬁ  lming in 
Gainesville opened his eyes to things he’d overlooked when he attended UF.
“Having been in Gainesville for seven 
years, you think you know the city,” Attias said, “and then coming there and doing the show you’re exposed to all the beautiful areas around Gainesville.” 
Burnett and Attias both agree that their 
background and friendship made the produc-tion a smooth one.
“It was certainly a friendship before a 
business partnership,” Burnett said.THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Gainesville, ” a reality TV show hosted by CMT set to debut in August, will showcase the life of seven Gainesville residents.  
CMT creates reality show on transitioning GNV residents
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
A night of bowling and laser 
tag proved to be a bit more costly 
than usual for punk band Author-
ity Zero.
According to the Arizona 
band’s Facebook, the van and all 
of its equipment, was stolen ear-
ly Tuesday morning from a hotel 
parking lot in San Antonio, and only the van and trailer were lo-cated later that same day. Despite the theft, the band is 
heading to Gainesville as part of its 31-city tour.
The band will perform Tues-
day at High Dive, located at 210 
SW Second Ave. Doors open at 7, 
and the show begins at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are available for $14 at the door or for $12 in advance on tick-etﬂ  y.com.
“Unfortunately, early this 
morning our van, trailer, produc-tion equipment, amps, guitars, drums, mics, merchandise, back-drops and computers have been 
taken from us in San Antonio, 
TX,” a post on their website an-nounced.
The same post revealed that the 
Love Hope Strength Foundation, a charity that uses music to help those affected by cancer, helped by creating a page on fundrais-ing website GoFundMe.com. The 
page’s goal is to gain support from 
fans and help the band recover while they continue their Summer Sickness tour.Thanks to support from fans 
and friends, including touring 
partners Counterpunch, the band 
has been able to continue its tour and still played its San Antonio show.
As of Wednesday afternoon, the band’s GoFundMe raised more than $13,000 out of a $30,000 goal.
In a post on their Facebook 
page, the band wrote:
“More reason than ever to 
scream these songs together!”
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, wrote in an email that the band does a great job of blending their punk and reggae in-ﬂ  uences.
“AZ is a great band for fans of 
old school pop punk like NOFX, Bad Religion, and Pennywise, but also for fans of reggae rock like 
311, Sublime and Pepper,” Lavery 
said.
Authority Zero van, equipment stolen on 31-city tour
Band is still performing in GNV
“AZ is a great band for fans 
of old school pop punk like 
NOFX, Bad Religion, and 
Pennywise, but also for 
fans of reggae rock like 311, 
Sublime and Pepper.”
Pat Lavery
owner of Glory Days PresentsTHURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
ALMOST FAMOUS
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Take a sip when…
 Williamʼs mom yells, 
“Donʼt do drugs!”
 You hear a song you 
recognize
 William calls Lester for 
advice
 Take a shot when…
 Russell drops acid and leaps from a roof
 A young, mustachioed 
Jimmy Fallon pops up on 
screen
 William gets 
“deﬂ  owered”
 Finish your drink 
when…
 You ﬁ  nd out Penny 
Laneʼs real name
 William ﬁ  nally gets his 
interviewSet in the ‘70s, “Almost Fa-
mous” tells the story of William 
Miller, a junior journalist enamored with music and morality. The for-mer instilled in him by his rebel-
hearted sister, the latter, by his 
heavy-handed mother, a college professor and unabashed despiser of all things rock ‘n’ roll. When the rebel heart leaves home early in the ﬁ  lm to escape her mother’s grip, she leaves behind a box of vinyl for her younger brother — a move that would mark him for life.
“Look under your bed,” she 
whispers. “It’ll set you free.”
Fast forward a few years to 
1973, and 15-year-old William is etching band names in his note-book. He writes for a few low-level newspapers, but ﬁ  nds a friend in Lester Bangs, a well-known music critic who takes a liking to him. At a Black Sabbath concert, he meets a ragged group of musicians who 
just so happen to be one of his fa-
vorite bands. They deem him “the enemy,” but William’s persistence lands him back-stage access and a seat on the bus. 
TAME IMPALA VEERS INTO THE MAINSTREAM ff the Record
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Australian rock band Tame Impala released 
its latest album, “Currents,” on Friday via In-terscope Records.
Veering from the band’s usual acid-wash 
delivery, the record sounds like a sugary cross 
between Daft Punk and Prince.
Existing as a solo act on record but a ﬁ  ve-
man band on stage, Tame Impala has made a 
name for itself as a calculated mess of psyche-delic proportions.The band — the brainchild of multi-instru-
mentalist Kevin Parker — ﬁ  rst began in Aus-tralia as a recording project back in 2008. But since then, Parker released two albums and made the leap from local stages to festival cir-cuits. 
The album’s leading song, “Let It Happen,” 
launches bold electronics into soul-dripped falsettos but brings them back to earth with a set of drums. Parker’s voice, eerily similar to that of a young John Lennon if he were sent to space, breaks through the threshold. Halfway through, the record scratches.“The Moment” sounds like ‘80s-montage 
music. A neon keyboard and jubilant hand-claps hum as the vocals gravitate toward eu-phony.
The most telling song on the album, “Yes 
I’m Changing,” details just that — a change from old to new. Parker seems entranced as 
he oozes emotionally charged notes at the 
world. He expresses a need to feed the masses, a move some of his fans might cringe at, but one he feels called to do. 
“And if you don’t think it’s a crime, you can 
come along with me,” Parker sings.On “Eventually,” waves build up before 
crashing. The ascent consists of ethereal synths and permeating vocals, but it undergoes much meandering before reaching its peak and veering down toward the asphalt. Oscillating rhythms and intensities draw the ear in and keep it there.
“New Person, Same Old Mistakes,” the ﬁ  -
nal track on the album, begins with a bounce and some ambient synths as Parker once again addresses his detractors. He preaches self-dis-covery as oriental strings momentarily pluck in the background. 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
Last weekend’s release of 
the comedy ﬁ  lm “Trainwreck” 
solidiﬁ  ed Amy Schumer as this 
year’s breakthrough comedian. 
Although not everyone can digest Schumer’s typical stand-up rou-tines, most audiences will laud 
her writing and performance in 
her big-screen debut.
Directed by the genre’s own 
Judd Apatow, the ﬂ  ick stars Schumer as a magazine writer 
who consistently parties 
and hooks up with strang-ers, a character not too far from her real self and who 
even shares her name. 
Under her father’s in-
sistence that “monogamy 
isn’t realistic,” Schumer barrels through relation-
ships until she fatefully gets as-
signed to write an article on sports doctor Aaron Conners (Bill 
Hader). 
After she realizes the fondness 
she has for him may be mutual, 
Amy begins to question and chal-
lenge her lifelong ideas about be-
ing with only one partner.
If that sounds a little too ro-
mantic, no worries — there’s tons of vulgar jokes, drug references 
and sex scenes to keep families 
seeing a cartoon movie in the next theater over. 
Schumer and Hader’s typi-
cal R-rated shtick transfers over well, and despite neither being usual lead material, the two keep the ﬁ  lm aﬂ  oat and deliver fresh performances. 
Adding to the humor are pecu-
liar co-workers, a brash and un-recognizable Tilda Swinton cam-
eo, features from sports legends 
LeBron James and John Cena, and an awkward dad-and-son duo that conjures up thoughts of awful sweater vests.
Outside its humorous appeal, 
“Trainwreck” also isn’t afraid to touch on more serious subject matters. Clearly relationships are 
among the dissected issues, but 
so are family connections and 
death. 
Although some of the 
plot lines almost seem 
superﬁ  cial among penis 
jokes, they do serve to add a little more depth to the characters’ experi-
ences and personalities. 
The character of Amy 
even undergoes a bit of a femi-
nist arc, and gender expectations get twisted in that the male char-
acters are over-the-top sensitive 
— two refreshing inclusions in Schumer’s racy script.
Over-performing in the week-
end box ofﬁ  ce with earnings of $30.2 million, “Trainwreck” proves to be Hollywood’s latest comedic gem. 
It challenges hackneyed rom-
com devices but keeps with basic elements, and its many one-liners and exaggerated scenes allow for the movie to leave a lasting im-
pression — even if that impres-
sion is just John Cena wearing only a small cloth.‘Trainwreck’ is 
Hollywood’s latest 
comedic gem
FILM
 
PROTOMEN TO PERFORM
Nashville rock band Protomen will be playing Friday at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $16 at the door .
Apatow
FRIDAY, JULY 24
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
Party Drag and Ceramicats
The Atlantic Nightspot
9 p.m. | Price TBASATURDAY, JULY 25 SUNDAY, JULY 26
Malibu Nights
The Backyard at Boca Fiesta
9:30 p.m. | Free eventFood Truck Rally
High Dive
5 p.m. | Free event
5K Bull Run
Tioga T own Center
7:15 p.m. | $30Honky T onk Angels
Hippodrome State Theatre
2 p.m. | $15-$35
A T rex. Named Sue
Museum of Natural History
10 a.m. | Free eventTHURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2 bedroom apt for rent, 10 minutes from campus. Nice community. Furnished. Asking $585. First month down. No central heat/AC, no pets, no smoking/drinking/drugs. Grad stu-dent preferred. Call Mr. Parker 352-213-5942    8-2-15-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    8-6-15-8-1
Countryside 4000 SW 23rd St, Furnished,  pool view,  bus lines 9 & 35, $385/room/mo. Yr lease, $250 dep, $150 elec allow. Cable & Internet incl, studious-nonsmoking. Not a party place. No pets. Bonus avail. for bring -
ing roommates. 4 rooms avail (1 now & 3 Aug 4th). Call 941 661 7865 lv. msg    8-17-15-7-1
FIRST TWO MONTHS FREE!At Cabana Beach 1601 SW 51st Terrace $499/mo. (utilities included). Female room-mate only. Private bedroom and bathroom. Furnished. Plenty of Amenities. Offer only available through a 1 yr- sublease with us. Calll Maria (352)4547805         7-28-15-3-1DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
Fully Renovated 4/2 Apartments@ University Commons $449/room. Includes new kitchen appliances, granite counter tops, porcelain tile, new furniture, cable, internet, and utilities. Call Tony at 352-284-3131    8-6-15-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
7-30-15-30-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-30-15-13-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
We have a 1br, or 2br units available in Holly Heights for $425-$575. Also available in Tower Oaks a 2br/2ba unit for $525. As well as 2br units available in Tower Village for $525-$650. 352-224-5011   7-23-15-7-2
2 Blocks To Stadium
Freshly decorated 2BR/1BA. Wood floors. $900/mo. Call 352-346-0123    7-23-15-6-2
SPACIOUS 3BR/2BA HOUSELarge back porch, W/D, wood floors, new upgraded master bath. New exterior paint & jacuzzi on back porch. $1400/mo. Call 352-258-9116                7-28-15-5-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 & 4/3 apt. homes. Starting at $1175.
Parking included.
Walking distance to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-9-2
Granite counter tops. Wifi, washer, and 
dryer included, Walk-in closet.
Nice community close to Archer rd.
UF main campus and Shands.
With 3 bus routes call-4076971571  
7-23-3 25 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE Near Law School
Tile floors, big yard. Avail Aug 1st. $1800/mo. 
Call 352-258-0025    8-4-15-4-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Looking for college student or young profes-sional to share furn. 2BR/2BA, 2 story condo (Woods Edge) Quiet complex on residential St.between Mall & UF $500/mo + Util. Avail. Aug. 1 Text 352-281-1891 or 352-262-2248 8-4-15-4-5
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5Casablanca West, 3 bed, 2 & 1/2 ba  
townhse. Corner, steps to bus. 2012 
new Trane A/C. Move in ready. Call but 
need to hurry. $74,900. Irene Larsson RE Services-352-373-2605,352-538-1218.    7-23-15-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real EstateIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    7-23-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-1298 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    7-23-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604● DO YOU WANT TO LOSE WEIGHT? ●
University of Florida Institute on Aging (UF Institute on Aging) is conducting a 4 week re-search study on behalf of Weight Watchers.University of Florida Institute on Aging is looking for men and women who:
● Are aged 18 and older
● Are overweight ● Want to lose weight and are not currently     following any commercial weight loss     programs● Have an iPhone (iOS 6 or above) or     Android  (version 4.4 through 5.1) and are     comfortable using apps● Do not have diabetes
Study Requirements
● Up to 4 assessments (screening, baseline,        2 and 4 weeks after the start of the study)● 4 weekly group meetings conducted at UF 
      Institute on Aging
Eligible individuals will receive:
● A food plan based on a balanced diet and       healthy eating 
● Group support
● Behavior modification strategies
● Access to a tracking app and help creating 
      an action plan 
Earn up to $150 for participation.
For more information and to see if you qualify 
please contact us    http://survey.c2research.com/s3/WW-UFL
   Telephone: 877-222-2909 ext 51
   Email: UFL@C2research.com 
Please note that space in this research pro-
gram is limited so please contact us no later 
than July 24, 2015.
All participant screening will be conducted by 
C2 Research. 7-23-15-2-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-17-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
DELIVERY DRIVER
The Independent Florida Alliagtor is looking 
for a VERY DEPENDABLE route driver
Early morning route, five days per week*
Starting in August 2015
(*Publication days vary according to the 
University of Florida class schedule.)
Applicant must have reliable transportation 
and be able to transport
multiple bundles of newpapers.
The route takes approximately 2 hours and 
includes drops along Newberry Road west 
to Jonesville, Tower Road, and along SW 
20th Ave. as well as some on Archer Road
Please inquire and apply in person at
1105 West University Avenue.
Monday through Friday
between 8am & 4pm.
No calls please.
1. MEASUREMENTS: What is the 
Fahrenheit equivalent of 100 degrees 
Celsius?
2. GEOGRAPHY: How many U.S. 
states border the state of Missouri?
3. LANGUAGE: What is a pan-
gram?
4. BIBLE: What kind of birds did 
Noah send to find dry land?
5. MUSIC: Which pop music song 
contains the phrase, “You can’t hide your lyin’ eyes”? 
6. ART: Jean Arp was a founding 
member of what art movement in the early 1900s?
7. LANDMARKS: What style of 
structure is the Washington Monu-ment?
8. MOVIES: Who has won the most 
Oscars for Best Director of a film?
9. FIRSTS: Who was the first wom-
an to win an Olympic gold medal for tennis?
10. INVENTIONS: What company 
first developed the floppy disk?
Answers
1. 212 degrees2. Eight3. A sentence that uses every letter of 
the alphabet
4. A raven and a dove
5. “Lyin’ Eyes” by the Eagles
6. Dada7. Obelisk8. John Ford, who won four9. Charlotte Cooper, 190010. IBM
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 20, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
Bartenders/Deli Help. Accepting applications at both 5156 S W 34th St and 2327 N W 13th St locations. Must have reliable transporta-tion and some daytime availability.    7-30-15-3-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, with
good customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14Gator Dining Services
located on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    7-28-15-6-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. 
Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
A painter with no computer skills looking for 
a tutor for painting on computer and updat-ing web site. Call after 10AM 466-4432.        7-23-15-3-14Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.  7-30-15-9-14
p/t office/home cleaner needed if interested please contact Caleitha@352-214-0868..must own a reliable car and be able to pass a background/drug test.. paying $8/hr    7-30-5-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.     7-30-15-7-14
Oaks Veterinary HospitalHIRING Receptionists & TechsLooking for hardworking pre-vets who are willing to learn        Experience a plusSend resume to oaksvet@gmail.com    7-30-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    7-23-1-14Full-time Preschool/Kindergarten Assistant Teacher at Millhopper Montessori SchoolFull-time Assistant Preschool/Kindergarten teacher. Benefits available, 401k included. Please email mmschool@millhopper.com    7-30-15-5-14
Great part time position for a medical administrative asst in a pediatric therapy office. Get experience in a health care facil-ity, job involves executing and improving the authorization process. Send resume tonoemisantiago59@gmail.com.    7-23-15-2-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusRecent Pay Increase! We Put Drivers FirstFamily Company w/ 401k Beautiful Trucks CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com     7-23-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    7-23-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE   7-23-1-14Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    7-23-1-14
DriversImmediate Openings Now!Home Every Week, Excellent Pay/Benefits,100% No Touch Freight,75% Drop & Hook.Class A CDL w/ 1 Yr. Exp. Req.CALL TODAY888-219-8039      7-23-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-15-25-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 
mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    7-23-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    7-23-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    7-23-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    7-23-1-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
16 Health Services
Oxygen Concentrator
InogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-LastingBattery. Try It RISK-FREE! ForCash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    7-23-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoatna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined in a new, online scion society, please send email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-15-15-19NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND - KEYS
Left in Uber car approximately 10 days ago. Has 
red bus on ring. Call to identify 352-262-1126   
7-23-3-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: August 3, 2015 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     7-23-1-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
20 Event Notices 15 Services 20 Event Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Vote online
Which Gator do you think was
the Best Freshman in 2014-15?Go to our website and vote atwww.alligator.org/sportsFlorida's new indoor practice facility, expected to be completed in September, is ahead of schedule. Read the story on pg. 19. 
UF selected for basketball challenge
The Southeastern Conference and American Athletic Conference have an-
nounced the SEC/AAC Women's Basketball Challenge. Florida will play UCF on Dec. 30 at the Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena.. The game against the Knights completes Florida's 2015-16 non-conference schedule.ALLIGATOR AWARDS
The Alligator Awards continue 
this week, with the fourth award 
being for “Best Freshman.” Editor-
in-chief Jordan McPherson and 
staff writer Ian Cohen join alli-gatorSports editors Graham Hall, Luis Torres and Graham Hack in 
a roundtable discussion to debate 
the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Cohen: Alhassan Arrives
Of all the Florida freshmen who 
had outstanding rookie seasons last year, one stands out above the rest 
— and not just because she’s 6-foot-
4.
Rhamat Alhassan had barely 
played two years of high school 
volleyball before being thrown into 
the starting rotation as UF’s premier middle blocker last season. Coach Mary Wise toned down the expec-tations early, saying she would be 
glad if Alhassan managed to adjust 
to the speed of the college game by the end of her ﬁ  rst season.
Alhassan had that mastered in 
less than a month.
Seven games into her rookie 
campaign, Alhassan became the ﬁ  rst freshman since 2012 to be named AVCA National Volleyball 
Player of the Week. Her 38-inch 
vertical helped her average a team-leading 1.32 blocks per set and a nation-leading .458 hitting percent-
age.
But Alhassan’s individual ac-
colades — including being named 
the 2014 Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Year — aren’t the 
only factors that make her UF’s 
most outstanding freshman.
She helped lead UF back to the NCAA Tournament’s Elite Eight for the ﬁ  rst time since 2011, averaging 
over nine kills and ﬁ  ve blocks per game along the way.
Alhassan also managed to ﬁ  ll the 
void left by two-time All-American middle blocker and Gainesville na-
tive Chloe Mann. A daunting task 
even for veteran blocker Simone 
Antwi, let alone a freshman in her third year playing the sport.
With such little playing experi-
ence, Alhassan surpassed all ex-
pectations in her ﬁ  rst year, making 
her the obvious choice to be named Florida’s top freshman.
Hack: Chiozza Displays 
Maturity
Chris Chiozza’s stats weren’t 
anything to write home about last season.
He averaged 3.9 points per game 
at a .389 shooting percentage, along with 2.2 assists and rebounds a contest.
But those numbers only tell part 
of the story.
Whenever I watched the fresh-
man play last season, he always stood out. 
Whether he was making the 
pass before the assist, setting up the offense, playing fundamentally sound defense, or getting a key 
steal. Often, he just avoided the bad 
play, something starting sophomore Kasey Hill seemed unable to do at times.
Such plays are often difﬁ  cult to 
quantify with traditional numbers, so I took a look at some advanced metrics to help, speciﬁ  cally Flori-da’s box plus/minus stats.
Box plus/minus takes into ac-
count a player’s entire box score coupled with the team’s perfor-mance to estimate that player’s per-formance per 100 possessions rela-
tive to an average — in this case an 
average college basketball player on an average team.Of the players who competed in 
at least 5 games, Chiozza ranks ﬁ  fth 
on the team with a 5.3. For com-
parison, Hill ranked 10th with a 1.2.
In other words, Chiozza’s entire 
body of work on the court posi-tively affected his team more than 
guys like Eli Carter, Alex Murphy 
and Hill. 
Hall: Schwarz Stands Out
JJ Schwarz did things freshmen 
aren’t supposed to be capable of.
The Palm Beach Gardens na-
tive was a revelation for Florida’s baseball team this season, hitting 18 home runs  – the most in the country by a freshman, and tied 
for fourth most in the nation – and 
leading the Gators in RBIs with 73.  
While most know him for hitting 
four home runs against Stetson on April 7, Schwarz is more than just 
a big bat. Despite his hitting prow-
ess, he doesn’t get selﬁ  sh with his at-bats.
Schwarz is patient enough to 
wait for the right pitch to send over the fences rather than grow anxious at the plate   – a crucial component in becoming a dominant hitter.
Following the victory over Stet-
son, Schwarz would hit nine more home runs over Florida’s next 36 games, and his batting average climbed from .304 to .332 by the 
end of the season.
Although the Gators didn’t walk 
away with the national champion-
ship, Schwarz scooped up the acco-lades. He was named the Louisville 
Slugger Co-2015 Freshman of the 
Year, the National Collegiate Base-ball Writers Association Freshman Who was the Best Freshman for the Florida Gators during the 2014-15 season?
JUST SOME HACK
There’s just over a week left in the 
Summer B semester, and that means we’re 
mercifully just a few weeks away from the start of the NFL Preseason. With that in mind, here are ﬁ  ve NFL rookies you need to look for when you start to question why on earth you’re watching gloriﬁ  ed scrimmages in August.
Amari Cooper, Oakland Raiders 
WR — Of all the players taken in the 2015 
NFL Draft, this is the guy with the best chance 
to be a future Pro Bowler. While there have been plenty of talented receivers 
taken in the last few years, none 
have come out of college more polished and NFL-ready than Cooper. He put up 1727 receiving yards with 16 touchdowns at Alabama last season, despite being the only true Crimson Tide weapon and being forced to face every opponent’s best corner. The team’s 
second-best receiver, DeAndrew 
White, only had 504 yards in 2014. With the way the Raiders throw the football — they had 629 passing attempts last year, the fourth most in the league — expect 
Cooper to have a monster season.
Landon Collins, New 
York Giants SS — Another 
Crimson Tide player, go ﬁ  gure. 
Collins, known as an enforcer in the secondary, led Alabama with 103 tackles last season, adding 
three interceptions, and will look 
to provide the Giants with the leadership and physical presence 
they need on the defensive side of the ball. Schematics shouldn’t be an issue for the Nick Saban product and he’ll likely make an immediate impact for the NFL’s 18th-ranked passing defense.
Leonard Williams, New York Jets 
DL — Williams, drafted third from USC, was 
considered by many scouts and analysts to be the most talented player in the draft this year, but quarterback needs for the Buccaneers and Titans kept him from being the top pick. The 
former Trojan had 80 tackles, seven sacks 
and three forced fumbles in 2014 and will look to crack an already stacked defensive line for the Jets. The negative element of that is he may not see as much playing time as he With the NFL season approaching, here are ﬁ  ve NFL rookies looking to impressJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan swings for a kill during Florida's 3-0 win against 
Idaho on Aug. 29 in the O'Connell Center.
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 18
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 2018   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Hitter of the Year, and a ﬁ  rst-team Freshman 
All-American by D1Baseball.
I think he can add Best UF Freshman to 
that list.  
McPherson: McMurtry Conquers 
Adversity
Alex McMurtry should not have performed 
as well as she did last season.
On a good day early in the season, the 
Midlothian, Virginia, native participated in only about a quarter of practice while recov-ering from a back injury.
But even with her training limited, the 
freshman provided the UF gymnastics team with a consistent athlete in its vault, bars and beam lineups from start to ﬁ  nish.
After debuting with a 9.850 on vault in UF's season-opener against Ball State, Mc-Murtry went on to stick a perfect 10 on the 
apparatus against Auburn, becoming the fast-
est in UF history to accomplish the feat. She also posted a 9.925 (bars) and 9.85 (beam) at the same meet.
At the ﬁ  nal meet of her freshman season, 
she notched a career-best 9.950 on bars to seal Florida’s third-consecutive national title.
And in the 11 meets spaced between those 
two monumental accomplishments, McMur-
try stayed strong.
Overall, McMurtry scored at least a 9.800 
— a score normally viewed as the ﬂ  oor for 
top-notch collegiate gymnasts — on all but three of 40 events during the season.
Your typical freshman doesn’t have that 
type of outing every week.
But then again, McMurtry is anything but 
typical.Torres: Austin Handles the Compe-
tition
All of you guys make great cases for the 
best freshman, but none of them compare to what Brooke Austin did for the women’s 
tennis team. Austin was the best of the three 
freshmen on the team, and the team's best player. 
On a team with no seniors and the lone 
upperclassmen being a junior (Brianna Mor-gan), coach Roland Thornqvist trusted Austin at the No. 1 court position in singles and dou-bles play right from the start of the season. 
It’s the position where Austin faced some 
of the best players in the country. And she didn't just hold her own on the No. 1 court —  she excelled. Austin ﬁ  nished the season with a 19-3 dual singles record (10-2 Southeastern 
Conference) as the No. 1 player. 
Her 19 dual singles wins and her 16 dual 
doubles wins on the court with partner Kourt-ney Keegan led the team. Austin’s perfor-
mance throughout the season would not go unnoticed as she captured every single acco-lade imaginable. 
The Indianapolis, Indiana, native was 
named SEC Freshman of the Year and SEC Player of the Year — becoming the ﬁ  rst play-er in program history to win both awards 
in her freshman season — to go along with 
numerous First Team awards, like All-SEC, All-SEC Freshman and All-SEC Tournament. And she ﬁ  nished off her stellar year by being ranked as the No. 1 player in singles play in 
the Southeast Region by the ITA. 
Not a bad season for the best freshman in 
program history. 
Which UF freshman was the best? Vote on-
line at alligator.org/sports. All results will be 
revealed in our New Student Edition on Aug. 
17. Austin, McMurtry stood out on highly-ranked Florida teams
AWARDS,  from pg 17THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
FUN FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY
FUN FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILYSaturday, July 25th, 2015
10:00 am until 4:00 pm
2424 NW 23rd Blvd.
Proceeds Benefit
The Center for Autism and 
Related Disabilities (C.A.R.D)Sponsored By: Elks Lodge #990
FOOTBALL
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
The Gators may be practicing 
inside sooner than originally ex-
pected.
When UF announced it was 
building an indoor practice facil-ity for its football program back in January, the goal was to ﬁ  nish the project by early September.
But coach Jim McElwain re-
vealed at Southeastern Conference Football Media Days that con-
struction is ahead of schedule, and 
the school has applied for a permit 
to use the facility before the start of the season.
“They’re ahead of the construc-
tion date right now,” he said. 
“It sounds like we’ll at least 
be able to get permit to be able to go spend a couple hours in there 
as we go through two-a-days. So 
that’s something that’s really ex-
citing, and it’s exciting for our 
guys.”
If nothing else, the limited use 
of the building will provide a brief respite during the sweltering Au-
gust practices. 
But it could also prevent weath-
er cancellations, allowing the 
team to continue practicing inside 
during afternoon thunderstorms. 
The university estimates 
around 30 practices were affected 
by weather in 2014.
The Gators report to Fall camp 
on Aug. 5, with practice beginning 
on Aug. 6. 
The season kicks off on Sept. 5 
against New Mexico State at 7:30 
p.m. on the SEC Network. Indoor practice facility 
ahead of schedule 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida head football coach Jim McElwain smiles during Spring practice on April 6 at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium. The Gators open Fall practice on Aug. 6. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015
would have on a weaker line, but the plus 
is that he will see one-on-one matchups 
on a regular basis.
Jameis Winston, Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers QB — Quarterbacks with 
a high football IQ coupled with all the 
physical traits you could ask for don’t come around often, but the Buccaneers have one in Winston. Unlike the offense 
Titans quarterback Marcus Mariota ran 
at Oregon, Winston’s FSU offense was much more similar to what he’ll be run-ning as a professional and will make the transition easier. While the hike in inter-ceptions from his freshman to sophomore year — 10 to 18 — is alarming, coach Lovie Smith likely won’t ask too much of the rookie early with his conservative 
approach.
Todd Gurley, St. Louis Rams RB 
— This one is less of a sure bet given the 
injury concern over the former Georgia running back’s recovery from an ACL tear he suffered during the season, but Gurley is a special talent in the backfield. 
Despite only playing in six games, Gurley 
still managed to run for 932 yards, averag-ing a whopping 151.8 per game, and nine touchdowns. St. Louis was convinced enough that they still took the back in the first round without even knowing if he would be ready for week one. 
Even if he needs to wait to debut un-
til midway through the season, similar to 
what Odell Beckham Jr. did last season 
for the Giants, the presence of a healthy Todd Gurley will be felt.COLUMN,  from pg 17Winston was selected No. 1 overall in the 2015 NFL Draft 
Alligator File Photo
Amari Cooper catches the ball during the Crimson Tide's 42-21 win against the Gators on Sept. 20. Cooper was selected No. 4 
overall by the Oakland Raiders in the 2015 NFL Draft. 
