We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 51 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
Florida volleyball dominates with 
defense
UF is stiﬂ  ing opponents in all facets of the game,
pg. 14
Police arrest couple and quells romance
The duo trespassed looking for a place to have sex, pg. 8
Research Roundup
Fungi, greenhouse gases and ancient Mayan bones, pg. 9Mrs. Pots
Check out her pottery, pg. 5
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF’s home page has received a 
face-lift.
A new design for the website uﬂ  .
edu was launched early this morn-
ing. Interim Assistant Vice President 
of Marketing and Creative Services 
for University Relations Nicole Yucht said the redesign was needed, as the site hadn’t been changed since 2008.
The new design will make the 
home page accessible from mobile devices and tablets, and it will in-clude more photos, a public alerts section, and student, faculty, staff and alumni bios, she said. The re-design is part of UF’s rebranding 
campaign, “For the Gator Good.” 
The website was funded through a $700,000 private campaign. The ex-act cost of the website has not been determined.
“We’re trying to take a tone that’s 
reﬂ  ective of the University of Florida and how we are motivated to help others and address challenges of the 
world,” Yucht said.
For now, just the home page is 
being redesigned, Yucht said. How-ever, individual colleges and depart-
ments will be receiving templates for their websites in the coming months to migrate over to the new design.
UF animal sciences sophomore 
Emily Rue said she thought the 
home page was in need of a rede-
sign. She thought the old website was confusing.
“When I was in high school and 
I tried to look up majors, I had to go through so many links just to ﬁ  nd things,” the 19-year-old said.
Yucht said the new website will 
include content that shows how UF’s 
research is making an impact on the 
world.
“It’ll give a lot better idea of what 
actually happens here,” she said.  UF launches new website
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
MYSTIFYING MURAL
A.J. Petrus, a 19-year-old Santa Fe College aerospace engineering freshman, sprays blue paint on the front of Mystic Smoke 
Shop and Hookah Lounge’s new DJ booth on Monday. The art piece included a beach scene, planets and UFOs. “We’re all from a different planet here, ” he said.
By Hunter Williamson 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
hwilliamson@alligator.org
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Despite a court ruling banning ﬁ  rearms in 
UF housing, a student group plans to lobby Wednesday to allow ﬁ  rearms on campus.
On Friday, the Florida First District Court 
of Appeal rejected an appeal by Florida Carry, Inc., a gun rights group, which claimed UF vio-lated Florida law and constitutional rights by prohibiting possession of ﬁ  rearms in university housing. 
But that isn’t stopping Students for Con-
cealed Carry at UF from lobbying in Tallahas-see. 
In the Florida legislature, two bills, HB 4001 
and SB 68, seeking to amend Florida law to allow guns on public college campuses have made their way through committees in past weeks. 
Concealed Carry at UF will lobby for HB 
4001 during the Higher Education and Work-force Subcommittee meeting, said Brandon Woolf, 22, the organization’s president.
“We do hope that this legislation does pass,” 
the UF architecture senior said. 
Jesse Sallen, 21, president of UF College  Court rules 
no ﬁ  rearms in UF housing
SEE GUNS,  PAGE 4
CAMPUSAbove is a screenshot of UF’s new home page. It was expected to 
launch between midnight and 3 a.m.Home page was redesignedSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fight for $15 Protest Organizing 
Meeting Thursday
The Alachua County Labor 
Coalition will mobilize a protest in solidarity with “Fight For $15 Florida” and the Nationwide Day 
of Action in support of a living 
wage Tuesday. The informational 
picket will take place between 4 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. at the corner 
of University Avenue and 13th 
Street in support of the rights of fast food workers to earn a liv-ing wage of $15 per hour. The organization will meet 6 p.m. Thursday at the ACEA office, located at 618 NW 13th Ave., to plan for the Day of Action. For more information, call 352-375-2832 or 831-334-0117, or go to laborcoalition.org. 
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Triwizard TournamentReitz Union Board will host its annual Harry Potter event at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Activities will include entering your name in the Goblet of Fire to battle drag-ons, saving your loved one from the black lake and navigating the life-size maze to compete for the Triwizard Cup. You can also create your own crafts and but-terbeer will be served. Check out 
#TriwizardTrivia for new Harry 
Potter trivia every Tuesday. 
Tweet us with the correct answer 
to win prizes! Visit us @UF_RUB on Twitter for more info.
High school research competition
Applications for the 53rd Annual Junior Science, Engineering and Humanities Symposium high 
school science research competi-
tion are due Monday. Eleventh 
and 12th grade students who have conducted original STEM research are encouraged to ap-
ply. Best-in-State winners receive 
college scholarship awards to the 
institution of choice and a spon-sored trip to the national com-petition for the opportunity to 
win up to $16,000 in additional 
scholarship money.  Faculty and 
STEM research staff interested in outreach are encouraged to sign up to host a lab tour or serve as a paper reviewer or competi-tion judge.  For more informa-tion, contact the UF Center for Precollegiate Education and Training at jsehs@cpet.ufl.edu, cpet.ufl.edu or 392-2310.
ISTEAM seminar: Gaze-driven Video Re-editingProfessor Eakta Jain (CISE) will speak Wednesday from 3:30 
p.m. to 4:30 p.m. in Marston 
Science Library, Room L136. 
Today, there is a huge variety 
of digital displays we can use to view videos. Most of us spend 
more time on our phone screens 
than large displays. But movies 
are originally created for wide-
screen format. How would you present a widescreen movie on a 
small screen? We’ll discuss how 
insights from computer graphics, 
visual perception and cinema-tography come together to create algorithms for re-editing wides-
creen videos via automatic pans, 
cuts and zooms.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org. Please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 51
HIGH  90° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Mystic Wonders
ABOVE:
In this long-exposure photograph, Ricardo Morales 
(left), owner of Mystic Smoke Shop and Hookah Lounge, 
and Joe Yachabach, a 19-year-old Santa Fe College mu-sic freshman, exit The Cave, a room located in the shop, 
Monday night. Morales said he started constructing the 
papier-mache walls in the summer time and ﬁ  nished it about a month ago. “When you’re here, you lose sense 
of time, ” he said.
LEFT:
Glow-in-the-dark paint was splattered on the front of 
Mystic Smoke Shop’s new DJ booth, and mounted black lights lit up the spray-painted art.
A.J. Petrus, a 19-year-old 
Santa Fe College aero-space engineering fresh-man, carves out a hand-drawn palm tree stencil for the newly built disc jockey booth in front of Mystic Smoke Shop on Monday. Petrus used the stencil to spray-paint a beach scene.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra 
Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
Democrats, said his organization will call legis-
lators Wednesday and voice their concerns for guns on campus.
“Open carry should be banned on campus, 
and that includes dorms,” the UF economics senior said.
The court’s ruling Friday was Florida’s latest 
move in a nationwide debate on gun laws and regulations.
It followed a lawsuit Florida Carry filed last 
year against UF, which seeked to repeal the firearms rules and regulations and argued peo-ple, under Florida law, have a right to possess, carry and store firearms in university housing.
In defense, UF stated it followed state law 
prohibiting the possession of guns on college campuses. The court sided with UF in its ruling.
The court did recognize the relationship be-
tween sections of Florida law that prohibit guns on college and university campuses and permit people to store firearms in homes. Florida Carry argued residence hall rooms on university cam-puses classified as homes. 
Woolf said the group has been monitoring 
the appeal for firearms in university housing. He doesn’t think the case is completely closed yet. 
“We’re watching and waiting to see what 
happens with it,” he said.
GUNS,  from pg 1Florida Carry argued residence halls on campuses were homesBy Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
Narayan Kulkarni’s essay on 
finding his inner peace will take 
him to Tokyo.
In October, the UF biology 
senior was named the winner of 
the 2015 International Essay Con-
test for Young People by the Goi Peace Foundation. On Dec. 1, the 21-year-old will travel to Japan to accept the award.
Kulkarni’s essay, “Building 
Peace Begins from Within,” fo-cuses on the importance of find-ing one’s inner peace.
His essay was chosen out of 
8,943 essays sent from 148 coun-tries in the youth category. In partnership with the United Na-tions Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the contest had writers submit an essay on the theme  “Building Peace in Our Hearts and Minds.”
“The contest caught my at-
tention because 
of the topic,” Kulkarni said. “I wanted to write about something that was mean-ingful and re-flective.”
Kulkarni was 
born in India 
and moved to the U.S. when he was a baby. He was in second grade when the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks happened. He said it affected him tremendously.  
“Growing up, people assumed 
based on my outer appearance 
that I was Arabic and (thought I 
was) Muslim,” Kulkarni said. “I was bullied after 9/11. I felt like I didn’t have a place to belong and no one understood me.”
That’s when Kulkarni said he 
became more involved with his Hindu faith, and he used it as an avenue to find peace, which was 
the focus of his winning essay.
“I have learned that building 
peace is a process which begins from within, and that it is our re-
sponsibility to develop it first in ourselves and then in others,” he said.
He said his mentor, Alexander 
Cena, encouraged him to develop himself as a student leader.  
Cena, the director of Asian 
Pacific Islander American Affairs at UF, said Kulkarni is an empa-thetic person and is interested in social justice.
“It isn’t a gimmick,” he said.  
“He truly and honestly believes what he puts down in writing and what he says to other people.”
UF student wins international contest for peace essay
Kulkarni
LOCAL
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Kevin Washington owed more 
than $53,000 in court costs after he was found guilty of conspiracy to trafficking cocaine. 
When he failed to pay $8,500 in 
monthly payments because his in-come wasn’t high enough to afford such a rate, his driver’s license was taken away by the Marion County Clerk of Courts. Without the ability to drive freely, Washington struggled to secure a job so he could make the monthly payments.
But on Monday, David R. Ellsper-
mann, the Marion County clerk of court, changed the payment policy and made it easier for criminal de-fendants in the county, like Washing-
ton, to afford monthly payments and 
avoid the penalty. Now, the clerk’s office will calculate a monthly install-ment that is no more than 2 percent of the person’s income. 
The reversal followed a lawsuit 
filed in August on behalf of Washing-ton by the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation of Florida. 
Benjamin Stevenson, an ACLU 
staff attorney, wrote a complaint let-ter to Ellspermann’s office in May and later filed the lawsuit. Steven-son said the clerk’s policy dictated that payment plans were set based on how much someone owed rather than his or her ability to pay. Under this policy, Washington was set to pay off the more than $53,000 in six months without a steady income. 
Now, Washington will instead 
pay $5 per month while he is unem-ployed. When he was released from five years in jail Sept. 30, he got his 
license back.
“Driving is not exactly a privi-
lege,” Stevenson said. “It’s a neces-
sity of modern life.”
Stevenson said about 80 percent 
of criminal defendants are impover-ished and can’t afford a lawyer, rely-ing on the state to provide one. “The Florida design of how to 
fund criminal court is to make crimi-nal defendants pay, which makes sense until you consider the popu-lation you’re asking to pay criminal courts,” he said. 
Greg Harrell, general counsel for 
the clerk of court, said it’s important to keep in mind the legislature sets court fines, fees and costs. The clerk of court is responsible for collecting them. 
“These are tough issues,” he said. 
“Clerks always strive to do what is right under the law.”
Marion County Clerk of Courts changes payment policy 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
FRAMING AWAY
Pete Vaughn, owner of Creative Cabinet Works, drills holes into cabinet frames 
at Creative Cabinet Works, located in Starke, Florida, on Monday. Established in 1984, the local shop continues to be one of the few family-owned businesses to op-erate in Starke.
THE FILMS ARE IN 
BLACK AND WHITE.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Contributing Writer
Every Tuesday, the orange and blue prefers 
black and white.
Since Oct. 6, Craig Smith, an associate pro-
fessor at the UF School of Art and Art History, 
has been showing films from post-reconstruc-
tion World War II Europe on the College of the 
Arts plaza, located in between the Fine Arts buildings. The next two weeks will host the final showings. 
The films, which are all black and white, 
primarily serve as visual resources for his black-and-white photography and honors un-common arts courses.
“It’s an open environment for comments 
and questions; there are individuals from dif-ferent parts of the university and city,” Smith, 43, said.“It’s very informal.”
All the films come from the UF library col-
lection. Admission is free and screenings are from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Today’s film, “Repul-sion,” which served as an introduction to the 
psychological thriller genre, has received criti-
cism because the film’s director, Roman Polan-ski, fled California in 1978 to avoid sentencing for charges of sexual assault and rape.
“The film depicts a psychological trauma 
in a very interesting way, regardless of who made it,” Smith said.
Students still plan on attending.“The reason I’m going is because the direc-
tor is very controversial,” said Caroline Nick-erson, a 21-year-old UF history and East Asian languages and literatures junior. 
Students are also eager to view the film out-
doors.
“I’m excited to go to it because I couldn’t 
imagine a better environment than under the stars to watch a movie,” said Jason Wilkotz, a 19-year-old UF art history sophomore.
So far, this venue has been underutilized, 
Smith said.
The final film, shown next Tuesday, will be 
“The Umbrellas of Cherbourg.”
“Come with a blanket and an open mind,” 
Nickerson said. “A blanket because it’s going to be cold. An open mind because these mov-ies are going to push you a bit.”Movies under the stars“Driving is not exactly a 
privilege. It’s a necessity of 
modern life.”
Benjamin Stevenson
ACLU staff attorney
He will travel to JapanTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
CAMPUS
By Gaby Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ianthea Mobley, 21, said she doesn’t think 
UF is as inclusive as it should be when it 
comes to interracial couples.
To help address the issue of interracial cou-
ples being stigmatized, the UF interior design 
and African studies senior is helping organize 
the first-ever interracial dating forum Wednes-day at 6 p.m. The discussion will be held at the Institute of Black Culture and hosted by the Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs and Black Affairs. While the forum is open to all interracial couples, the relationship between 
Asian and black couples will be highlighted. 
Mobley said interracial couples at UF some-
times receive dirty looks and rude comments. 
They can be the brunt of stereotypes, she said.
UF digital arts sophomore Emma Raymaker 
will attend the event. She said she is interested in listening to students’ stories.
The 19-year-old, who identifies as Asian 
American, is currently dating an Italian. One 
of her previous boyfriends was black, and she said the stigma surrounding their relationship 
was greater than her current one. 
“There’s always that, I guess, fear that peo-
ple would be rude,” she said.
UF horticultural science sophomore Eliza-
beth Barrido said she wants to learn about why interracial relationships are stigmatized.
“There is a lack of experience with people 
of different cultures, and the unfamiliarity makes people uncomfortable,” Barrido, 19, said.
Mobley said the group will look at statistics 
and pop-culture references that support the discussion. There will also be a speed dating activity for Asian and black students. 
“I think that Asian and black couples aren’t 
something talked about when you think of in-terracial dating,” she said. “So that’s why we wanted to do something different.”UF groups host first forum on interracial dating stigmas
“There’s always that, I guess, fear that 
people would be rude.” 
Emma Raymaker
UF digital arts sophomore
MRS. POTS
ABOVE:
Julia Galloway torches balls of clay to harden them for her presentation of the pea handle on Monday. She 
taught students the throwing and surfacing pottery techniques she uses in her studio. She pulled handles for pots she had created earlier in the session. “T o get good, just pull a mile of handles, ” Galloway said as she stretched a lump of clay with her hands into a flat, even handle under 15 seconds.
LEFT:
Julia Galloway, an internationally acclaimed utilitarian potter, lines up a Christmas cactus handle, a green bean handle and a pea handle during her demonstration at UF Fine Arts Building C on Monday. Galloway was chosen as the UF Ceramics Fall Visiting Artist by Handbuilt Or Thrown Clay, UF’s ceramics organiza-tion, and will continue teaching different pottery techniques today in UF Fine Arts Building C, Room B14, from 9 a.m. until noon.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Islam: Is there a need for reformation?
In light of all the strife and tragedy that has 
emerged from the Middle East, many people look to Islam as the foremost cause of all this. Comedian and late-night talk show host Bill Maher professes quite frequently that Islam’s 
dogma is uniquely violent and backward. “When there’s this many bad apples, there’s something wrong with the orchard,” Maher recites on his show.
On the opposite end of the spectrum are 
voices like Reza Aslan who argue, “Islam doesn’t promote violence or peace,” and contend the violence and human-rights violations in the region are solely attributable to political instability and cultural conservatism, as well as 
the radicalism of individual countries. So, as it stands now, 
the apparent divide is between those who view Islam as the root cause of the region’s destabilization and those who maintain Islam has nothing to do with all of the apparent violence.
Both perspectives have ﬂ  aws in their own right, but this 
piece is about neither of these perspective nor which is more correct. This piece focuses on those who take the “Islam is the ‘root cause’” perspective another step further by as-
serting, “Islam needs a reformation,” and there will only be 
peace in the Middle East once Islam undergoes such a dras-tic change. Naturally, one should ask: What do advocates of a “reformation” think that would mean and how would such a reformation apply to modern Islam?
First and foremost, consider that among those who 
champion a reformation in the Muslim world, there is no consistent deﬁ  nition of what such a reformation entails. Somali-born activist and author Ayaan Hirsi Ali contends an 
Islamic reformation entails a reimagining of how to interpret 
the Quran, a reimaging consistent with 21st-century values. Meanwhile, other “reformation” advocates like Maj. Chad Pillai argue the reformation is already underway, in which he compares the current violence between Islamic powers with the religious wars of Europe during the 16th and 17th centuries.
The call for an Islamic reformation alludes to the refor-mation of Western Europe, and the transition from religiously claimed lands to politically in-dependent nation states, as provisioned by the milestone 1648 Treaty of Westphalia. Looking back, many associate the Protestant Reformation 
with the push toward the Enlightenment and 
modernization of Western values.
Yet, the religious wars in Europe, the Napole-
onic Empire, the French and American Revolu-tions, World War I and World War II stand as clear examples as to how the Peace of Westpha-
lia and Protestant Reformation also led to immense violence. So while the West currently deals with far less internal vio-lence than the Middle East, proposing that solutions for the 
Middle East model themselves after the complex, violent his-
tory of the West is not ideal.
Another inherent danger in advocating an Islamic “ref-
ormation” by comparing the path of Islam to the path of Western Europe is it establishes a Christian vs. Islamic —    modernity vs. backwardness or good vs. bad — lens through which to analyze the violence in the Middle East. These per-spectives, in turn, distract the conversation away from the true victims of Islamic violence: innocent Muslim civilians 
who have no stake in the ﬁ  ght and simply want to live in 
peace.
To conﬂ  ate the idealized notion of a religious reformation 
with the current Muslim world is, in my view, to misrep-resent. The conditions of 16th-century Europe are not the same as those of 21st-century Middle East. Consequently, the solution to addressing radical Islam in the 21st century should be unique rather than a replica of the West’s history of confronting religious strife.
So, the next time you encounter the argument of “Islam 
needs a reformation,” I would encourage you to consider not only what a “reformation” would truly consist of, but also the complex dynamics of the Middle East and radical Islam. Then develop your own opinion as to what the Middle East needs — you will ﬁ  nd the answer is not so straightforward.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.Strongly held opinions 
are ﬁ  ne, but chill with 
reactionary ones
From the ﬁ  rst time the written word was translated to cel-luloid and up to the present, the phrase, “The book(s) was/is/are better” has long been a rallying cry for disgruntled literary fans. While there are many instances where an adaptation did justice to the source material — or in the 
cases of ﬁ  lms such as “Blade Runner,” “Fight Club” or “Jaws,” surpassed it — there are just as many that not only failed to ren-der the material in a compelling manner but managed to actively disrespect the original text. Films with this distinction include “Watchmen,” the most recent adaptation of “The Great Gatsby” and “The Scarlet Letter.”
It has been made apparent in recent years that television may 
be a more suitable medium than ﬁ  lm through which to bring text and/or illustration-based narratives to life. The two seem-
ingly most popular shows on television, “The Walking Dead” and 
“Game of Thrones,” are testaments to this.
Which brings us to this past Sunday when AMC premiered the 
ﬁ  rst trailer for “Preacher” during a “Walking Dead” commercial break. “Preacher” was originally a series of comic books pub-lished from 1995 to 2000 by Vertigo, the mature readers imprint of DC Comics. Written by Garth Ennis and illustrated by Steven Dillon, the series concerns Jesse Custer, the titular disillusioned preacher of the title, and his quest to ﬁ  nd God (literally) after ac-
quiring supernatural abilities. This brief descriptor doesn’t do jus-
tice to the series’ vast cast of characters nor its weighty themes. As ﬁ  ltered through a distinctly ’90s frame of mind, the series tackles faith, traditional understandings of masculinity, American mythmaking — including but not limited to war, manifest des-tiny and the American dream shared by 20th-century immigrants — and male friendship. “Preacher” is rich in both profanity and humanity, which makes it a beloved entry in the graphic litera-ture canon.
Prior to this adaptation — which is being executively pro-
duced by Seth Rogen, his writing partner Evan Goldberg and Sam Catlin, a former writer and co-producer of “Breaking Bad” — there were several unsuccessful attempts to bring “Preacher” to the screen. This included a failed pitch for HBO, as well as numerous efforts to make it a ﬁ  lm. If you were to speak to any one of the number of fans who voiced their reaction to Sunday’s trailer online, you’d probably think “not all that well.”
The release of the 90-second trailer has elicited cries of blas-
phemy and complaints the show is straying from the source ma-terial. In particular, the lack of seemingly supernatural elements and the absence of sunglasses on Cassidy — one of the main characters — have been the primary points of contention. (A geeky side note: In all fairness, Cassidy’s shades ARE critical to his character development.)
To quote the trailer itself: “Jay-sis.” In the time of Twitter and 
Facebook, people have been conditioned to respond urgently and decisively to things they know little to nothing about. This 
extends beyond the trailer for some cult comic adaptation: The 
amount of photoshopped memes and obviously fake news ar-ticles that constitute the detritus of social media is, from a critical thinking standpoint, embarrassing. Other than (perhaps) certain life or death situations, snap judgments have never been and will never be rational bases for strongly held opinions.
To those “Preacher” fans left dismayed by the trailer, come 
back next year after the show begins in earnest; then tell us how disappointing it was. For the rest of you who don’t obsess over 
niche graphic novels, think before you tweet.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Our day-to-day lives 
are ﬁ  lled with divisive choices: Library West 
or Marston Science 
Library? Midtown or 
downtown? Each choice, while seemingly innocuous, comes 
with its own set of die-hard ad-
vocates that keep these mean-ingless rivalries alive. 
As we reﬂ  ect on this past 
weekend, it only seems ﬁ  tting to ad-
dress the rivalry that characterized Friday through Sunday. No, I’m not alluding to some harmless football competition. I’m talking about The Fest versus the Florida-Georgia game.
Let me start off by saying I came to 
Gainesville with absolutely no precon-
ceived notions about either of these events or how deeply rooted this rivalry was for a 
lot of people. I could never forget my ﬁ  rst 
time witnessing the darkly clothed hordes migrating down University Avenue, and the comments I heard later that day from friends who said Fest was some sort of 
“like, weird hipster thing.” The way peo-
ple talked about it made it sound like a secret punk takeover that occurred while countless UF students ﬂ  ed to Jacksonville 
for the Florida-Georgia game.
More recently, I gained some perspec-
tive from close friends who have actually 
attended Fest instead of ﬂ  eeing at the ﬁ  rst sight of combat boots. I hadn’t realized how massive the actual event was, draw-
ing more than 10,000 people and around 
400 bands to our humble college town. I also was previously unaware that the majority of Fest attendees come from out of state, which, considering Gainesville’s 
current less-than-ideal music scene, was 
immensely impressive.
This year, I was forced to make a 
choice. Where would I stand in the Fest 
versus Florida-Georgia matchup? A lot of 
factors were at play, including my apathy 
toward any and all sports, an unavoid-
able desire to see Title Fight live, invita-tions to visit friends in Jacksonville and the hype that inevitably ac-companies “The World’s Larg-est Cocktail Party.” In the end, 
Florida-Georgia won over. As I 
left Gainesville on Friday after-noon and drove past the mass migration toward downtown, I 
wondered why these two events 
had to be mutually exclusive.
In retrospect, I found these 
occasions actually have a lot in 
common, if my own experience in Jack-
sonville and the second-hand accounts I 
received from Fest-attending friends are anything to go by. 
First, both are prime spots for people-
watching. With the rainbow of both foot-ball and underground music fans running rampant through the streets, it’s only a short amount of time before you see a large 60-year-old man in a Gator crop top 
(like I did) or perhaps someone sporting 
an animal skull as an accessory.
Also, people are just in a better mood. 
Maybe you like watching grown men tack-
le each other. Maybe you like to mosh. 
Whatever it is, these special occasions foster a citywide good mood that only dis-sipates with the end of the weekend and a begrudging return to normalcy.
Finally, both Fest and the Florida-Geor-
gia game have become a beloved tradition that comes with an anticipated array of hardcore fans. 
We’re all just trying to have some fun 
with our friends and momentarily forget our responsibilities, so the imagined rift between these two events really is found-ed on nothing. Despite having a mostly 
good time in Jacksonville, I really wish 
I hadn’t been forced to choose one over the other. This divisive mentality is at the center of the rivalry and will most likely 
persist into the foreseeable future.
But, on the bright side, there’s always 
next year for me to cast my arbitrary al-
legiance to one or the other.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.The Fest vs. Florida-Georgia: 
Not so different after allColumn
Since my mother’s appli-cation of the Mozart ef-fect to me in utero, I’ve 
come to fruition as a 
reasonable man in most 
aspects of my life. I ﬁ  nd a sym-metrical existence in the virtues 
of temperance, modesty and 
magnanimity to name a few. (I took an ethics class one time, and I own a thesaurus.)
But with this nurtured reason came 
the reasoning that life is more precious than the thrill; that it is needless to risk the possibility of death just to say you’ve been parasailing in the Teton Mountains. 
Even as a child, my reason kept me de-
ﬁ  cient in the virtue of courage. I viewed the risks of falling from the high branches of a neighborhood banyan as more con-sequential than the promise of fulﬁ  llment 
and thrill from towering conﬁ  dently over 
the suburbs. It’s obvious reason has made me a coward, but while you might label me as such (my pals prefer to call me a 
p***y), I’m ﬁ  ne with that. Death by the 
jaws of some cartilaginous carnivore is not a worry for me because I get my kicks from Netﬂ  ix, not snorkeling.
It is becoming increasingly difﬁ  cult to 
be Aristotelian about the virtue of cour-age — if and when I ever wanted to start. While on one hand I brandished bravery the other day by ordering a New York 
strip steak medium-rare from Café Risqué, 
I’ve also stopped, out of fear, frequenting the placidity of one of my preferred pas-times: going to the movies. A wonderfully inactive activity that involves three under-
rated joys: sitting, staring and snacking. 
When I go to the movies with friends, I can proudly pretend that by indulging in this act I am a concrete example of extro-
version. Hold the adrenaline, and bring on 
the extra butter and Sno-Caps.
I go less often these days because the 
burden of thrill has invaded the sanctity of my movie-going. Instead of biting into 
a Kit Kat during the trailers, I’m biting into 
my nails and anxiously surveying each and every body that takes a seat in the theater. I wonder whether the loner in the 
front row has an AR-15 tucked away in his JNCO jeans. I then breathe 
a sigh of relief and feel a brief ease in tension when the rest of 
the bandmates from Korn catch 
up to him bearing sodas and gummy bears. I mean, it’s rea-sonable to assume if you’re go-
ing to shoot up a movie theater, 
you’re not going to be with a company of snackers. You might 
be able to tell the stress is an anathema to my young heart.
Yet for all my cowardice and crippling 
reluctance, there have been some beneﬁ  ts. For in my cinematic trepidation, I’ve de-veloped a three-check system when scan-
ning the audience for potential murderers 
that can be used by anybody looking to avoid having their life riﬂ  ed while enjoy-ing themselves at the cinema.
I’m talking, of course, of The Three 
C’s: company, clothing and concessions.
Generally speaking, if the person in 
scrutiny has friends, regular clothing 
that can’t hide a bazooka or is chowing 
down on a theater hot dog, there needn’t be cause for alarm. What type of movie 
theater marauder grabs nachos for the 
slaughter? It’s not a thing. Only when the trench-coated loner sans soda appears is it time to make haste for the exit and watch the bootleg on your couch.
It’s a terrifying gun-toting world out 
there, and I think it’s reasonable for me to sometimes wish I could roll through it in a bulletproof bubble. While holding back 
on visiting the theater for this reason, I 
think it’s also time to give some thought to abandoning any activities outside the comfort of my home. Or maybe I’ll start carrying my own riﬂ  e around for my own safety… maybe not. Sounds risky.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe College 
journalism junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.Courage and the fear of movie theatersColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
“Hold the adrenaline, 
and bring on the extra 
butter and Sno-Caps.”Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
MONA LISA
Edward Morfa, a 20-year-old UF industrial engineering junior, snaps a picture of the 
6-by-8-foot completed Mona Lisa art piece sitting on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. The image started forming three weeks ago at the Pop-Up Culture event and was ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nished with 10,000 rubber bands covering its surface.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local woman 
and man Sunday morning after police said 
they tried to break into a home to have sex.
At about 6:40 a.m. Sunday, Carise Dun-
can, 24, and John Thomas, 
18, tried to enter the house 
through its back window and door, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
The duo wanted to use 
what they believed was a vacant house to have sex, but the owners heard the 
attempted entry, hid in the bathroom and 
called the police, according to the email.
An ofﬁ  cer saw Duncan walk from the 
porch and thought she was the caller, but then he saw Thomas crouched on the porch, according to a police report.
The ofﬁ  cer handcuffed Duncan and tack-led her after she tried to escape. She relaxed and they walked toward a police car when she broke free, still in handcuffs, and ran 50 feet before the ofﬁ  cer tackled her again, according to the report.
Once inside the car, Duncan kicked the 
window until an ofﬁ  cer tried to restrain her 
legs. She then kicked him in the face.
Duncan has open 
charges for trespassing and 
resisting an ofﬁ  cer from September, according to Alachua County court re-cords.
Thomas could not be 
reached for comment.
Police arrested Duncan 
and Thomas on charges of 
trespassing. Duncan also received two charg-es of resisting an ofﬁ  cer and one for battery.
Authorities took them to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, Duncan remains in lieu of a $30,000 bond. Thomas was released Sunday afternoon on his own recognizance.  Police arrest couple for 
trespassing, quells romanceIT WILL CELEBRATE 
PALESTINIAN CULTURE.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Last Fall, while Brian Feldman 
was studying abroad in Chile, he 
came up with a new way to show support for Palestine.
As the UF political science, in-
ternational studies and Spanish senior marched in solidarity for Palestine and listened to musicians playing, he thought of bringing a concert for Palestine to Gainesville.
Tonight at 7:30 p.m., his idea is 
coming to life. The Jam will host UF Students for Justice in Pales-tine’s event “Jam for Palestine,” a night ﬁ  lled with live music, spoken-word poetry, breakdancing and more to celebrate Palestinian culture and educate the commu-nity on the Israeli-Palestinian con-
ﬂ  ict.
“I’m hoping to bring to a big-
ger audience the issue of Palestine 
and the struggle for justice,” the 22-year-old said.In recent weeks, decades-long 
violence has increased with at-
tacks on Israelis by Palestinian 
youth. Some believe the violence stems from what they see as an oc-cupation of Palestinian territories by Israel.
The event is free, but there will 
be a jar for donations to SJP, he said.
He said he hopes to educate 
people on the Boycott, Divestment and Sanction movement, which calls for boycotts against Israel un-til the conﬂ  ict ends.
Feldman said he thought The Jam was the right venue for host-ing a progressive event.
Cristobal Gonzalez will be at 
the event performing with Los Pa-
nas 352, a Gainesville-based Latin 
band.
The 23-year-old singer said they 
agreed to perform because they thought it would be a good way to promote their music and the cause.
“I think it’s important to be in-
formed, and this is a great place to be informed of what’s happening,” he said. “They’re doing it in a cool way.”
Feldman said he chose to edu-
cate the community through the arts because it’s a natural way to express ideas.
“The arts are timeless and an 
intrinsic means through which hu-mans can express their ideologies, their passions and their desires,” he said. 
 UF group to host pro-Palestine event at The Jam 
Duncan
 Thomas
“I think it’s important to be 
informed, and this is a great 
place to be informed of what’s 
happening.”
Cristobal Gonzalez
Los Panas 352 SingerTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Do y ou ha ve pain in y our f ace or ja w?
Volun teers ne eded for study of     or            
F          om e s tio   ro v ded
To be eligible you must be:
 18-74 years old
To learn more , contact us at:
 352-273-7620
PRICE-CTSI@uﬂ.e du
In good he alth
Fluent in English (written and spoken)
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Two new species of fungi discovered in 
Gainesville
A UF researcher and professor dug up Gainesville 
dirt and found two new species.
UF postdoctoral researcher Keisuke Obase and UF 
plant pathology professor Matthew Smith found new 
species of fungi in a local soil sample.
Smith, a curator of UF’s fungal collection, said he 
and Obase studied multiple fungi they found in soil 
samples around Gainesville. Only two types of fungi 
were declared new, but Smith said they will continue analyzing the other species.
After two years of researching, Smith said the study 
is in the ﬁ  nal stages of the publication process.  
He said he is excited to share their discoveries and 
hopes they will encourage conservation.
“The reason that I’m interested in this research is 
because it shows us how much diversity is all around 
us, but we don’t really see it,” Smith said.
He said he believes the research will affect those 
outside Gainesville, too.
“In order to know how to preserve things, we have 
to know what’s actually there,” he said.
Knowing about fungi can also help people under-
stand diseases, which Smith said can lead to prevent-
ing and combating them.
Smith said he is proud of the research.
“Fungi are cooler than you think they are,” he said. 
“Most people don’t think they’re very cool, but they 
are.”
- Rachel HowardBacteria used to decrease greenhouse 
gases
UF biochemists are using an enzyme found in 
deep-sea bacteria to potentially decrease greenhouse 
gases.
The enzyme, carbonic anhydrase, comes from bac-
teria that live in hot underwater vents. It can tolerate high temperatures, which means it can break down greenhouse gases, said Brian Mahon, who helped 
conduct the research. The gases are caused by burn-
ing fossil fuels.
The study was conducted by UF biochemistry and 
molecular biology professor Robert McKenna and UF biochemistry research assistants Mahon, 27, and 
Avni Bhatt, 23.
Bhatt said the enzyme “gobbles up” carbon di-
oxide, a greenhouse gas. In an industrial plant, the 
gas would be passed through a bioreactor, which is 
a chamber that contains the enzyme. The enzyme 
would eliminate it from the gas released.
“If we could produce enough of the enzyme and 
ﬁ  nd a way to implement it within the industrial pro-cess, it would present a more efﬁ  cient and potentially 
cheaper way to reduce greenhouse-gas emission,” 
Mahon said.
Bhatt said implementing the research will be a 
challenge, but she still thinks it’s helpful.
“I certainly think (the enzyme) could be extremely 
useful, especially since carbon dioxide is a big con-tributor to climate change,” Bhatt said.
-Jennifer JenkinsAncient Mayan history discovered 
through bones
A UF researcher uncovered new information about 
the ancient Mayan culture’s lower and middle classes. 
UF anthropology doctoral student Ashley Sharpe re-
cently published a paper focusing on the daily lives of 
Mayan commoners. By looking at how the Mayans in-teracted with animals, she found that ancient Mayans are similar to Americans today.
“We know about the ruling classes from their mon-
uments, but we know next to nothing about the middle and lower classes,” the 28-year-old said.
Sharpe studied thousands of animal bones and ma-
rine shells in the Florida Museum of Natural History. 
She said she found the Mayans ate deer and dogs in 
large quantities.
“Your little Chihuahuas — they were originally used 
as food,” she said.
Sharpe said she also discovered marine shells more 
than 100 miles inland, which suggests an extensive trade system must have been developed between dif-ferent Mayan groups.
She said the most interesting part of the research 
was how the use of bones showed the separation of social classes.
“The lowest class was only allowed to use things 
from the river, like turtles,” she said. “The middle class 
had access to a lot of animals. But at the palaces of the 
elite there were animals like jaguars and crocodiles, which were probably given to them as gifts.”
-Emily MavrakisTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Unfurnished room with private bathroom in 4/4 at Gainesville Place Apartments.Close to UF with bus every 20 minutes$454 mo.Free router and modem. 727-203-1261   11-3-15-5-3
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-1298 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14  
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
 
 
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
Office cleaner needed after 5p m,t,th,f and sat and sun time varies...Home/apartment cleaner needed somewhere in between 8-5 m-f and wed,sat,sun time varies ....weekly pay and paying 8.25/hour..MUST Have A CAR with valid license and be able to pass a background/drug test...if interested please call 352-214-0868    11-4-5-14
NOW HIRING!Lloyd Clarke Sports is seeking an outstand-ing person to join our staff. Must work 1 day on the weekends and maintain 25-35 hours per week. Apply in person only.1504 NW 13 St. 1 Mile N of UF    11-4-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with reliable transportation. If interested call (352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
WANTED: LOCAL STUDENT
Help with greenhouse/garden in a.m.
(flexible) 6 hrs/wk. Leave message in a.m. 352-378-9771    11-4-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Rhamat Alhassan and the 
Florida volleyball team put up a dominate defensive performance in its win against Georgia on Sunday. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Three UF players make award watchlists
A trio of Gators — Vernon Hargreaves III, Jon Bullard and Antonio 
Morrison — were named to semifinal award watchlists. Hargreaves and Bullard are two of 20 semifinalists for the 2015 Bednarik Award. Morrison was named one of the 10 semifinalists for the Butkus Award. By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
With Florida riding high fol-
lowing its 27-3 win against Geor-
gia on Saturday, and the prospect 
of having the chance to clinch a 
spot in the Southeastern Confer-ence title game this weekend, coach Jim McElwain is preaching 
one thing to his team this week.
Cut out all the distractions and 
stay focused on the task at hand.
The objective? Focus on get-
ting a win against Vanderbilt on Homecoming and avoid any let-
downs that come with a potential berth in the SEC title game on the line.
McElwain wants to see how 
his team responds following a rivalry win and getting prepared 
for a Vanderbilt team that stands 
in the team’s way of getting to At-lanta for the ﬁ  rst time since 2009.
“To me this is an opportunity 
to see how far we’ve come as an 
organization,” McElwain said. 
“We’ve got an opportunity to 
go win a ballgame and solidify us 
being in Atlanta. That’s the way it 
should be. That’s why you come Gators hoping to avoid letdown during Homecoming week
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain roams the sidelines during Florida's 27-3 win against Georgia on Saturday at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
The Gators are 10-2-1 against Vanderbilt on Homecoming. 
IT'S COHEN DOWN
In front of the entrance to 
the hallway that leads to the players’ locker rooms, Stephen Curry begins every game the same way.
He faces the rim, which 
stands about 60 feet ahead on the court in front of him, waits for a respectable number of Warrior faithful to gather and pull out their cell phones, and launches the ball.
Sometimes it misses. Sometimes — and 
much more often than you’d think — it goes 
in.
So that’s why — halfway through Satur-
day’s game against New Orleans — when 
Curry dribbled down the right side of the court and used a hard screen from a team-mate followed by a behind-the-back dribble move to position himself 30 feet from the basket at the top of the arc, he launched the ball.
Swish.60 feet is a challenge. 30 feet 
is his home.
Curry is the most entertain-
ing athlete in the world, more so than four-time MVP LeBron James, more so than Barcelona megastar Lionel Messi, more so than UFC showstopper Ronda 
Rousey.
The 6-foot-3 All-Star is an offensive sa-
vant, often zigging and zagging and weav-
ing through the NBA’s best defenses on a 
nightly basis. He’s beaten and broken Chris Paul’s ankles, out-maneuvered and out-shone runner-up MVP James Harden, and even escaped from the clutches of 2014-15 Curry is sports' most entertaining star
UF BEGINS SEASON ON
W NOV . 13 AT TEMPLE. 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
For coaches, players and media members 
alike, this point in the Florida women’s bas-ketball preseason can be summed up, how-ever out of context, by one of the most famous rants in sports history. 
“We in here talkin’ about practice,” former 
Philadelphia 76ers guard Allen Iverson said toward the onset of his notorious “practice” rant.
“I mean, listen, we talkin’ about practice. 
Not a game, not a game, not a game. We talkin’ about practice.”
Since got ofﬁ  cial practices underway near-
ly a month ago, they have yet to play a game. 
Coach Amanda Butler and multiple team 
members have gone through the usual pre-season spiel, but the regular season can’t get 
here soon enough for the team at this point. 
While talking about how other teams at UF 
have been doing so well as of late, Butler her-
self seemed a little restless. 
“I kinda feel inadequate just talking about 
practice,” she said.
That being said, Butler added that she’s 
fairly pleased with where the Gators are at this point in the preseason. 
“It is very exciting where we’re at right 
now, the way that we’re progressing, the daily UF women's basketball 
eyeing start of seasonSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE WHOOPS,  PAGE 15“To me this is an opportunity 
to see how far we've come as 
an organuzation.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@Lstaff27
For the Gators, Friday’s loss might sting 
more than most.
On Friday morning, the Florida men’s and 
women’s swimming and diving teams were 
defeated on both sides by their Southeastern Conference rival, the Georgia Bulldogs. 
Although the Gators fell to the Bulldogs, 
they didn’t give Georgia an easy victory, with Florida’s athletes posting four U.S. Olympic Trial-qualifying times, 12 wins, and seven career-best performances. 
The Gators won 3-of-4 diving boards in the 
diving portion of the matchup. 
Despite the loss, coach Gregg Troy was not 
upset with the way that his team competed on Friday. 
But he knows that there is some definite 
room for improvement to work on this week. 
“Some outstanding individual perfor-
mances, but we ran into a well-coached, well-prepared, pretty christened Georgia team that 
raced us pretty well and we didn’t respond 
quite as well as we would like,” Troy said. 
“The men haven’t lost back-to-back meets 
in maybe eight or nine years, so it’s kind of a 
wake up call for them.”
On the men’s side, No. 2 Florida fell to No. 
3 Georgia by a score of 172.5 to 127.5. 
However, the Gators were more successful 
as individuals than as a team, with sophomore Caeleb Dressel capturing a pair of wins in the 
100-meter freestyle and 50-meter freestyle and 
third place 100-meter butterfly. 
In the 50-meter freestyle race, Dressel 
swam a U.S. Olympic Trial-qualifying time of 
22.73. 
Senior Corey Main and junior Jack Blyz-
inskyj went 1-2 in the 100-meter backstroke, with  both touching out with U.S. Olympic Trial-qualifying time standards, with a time of 56.90 for Main and 57.15 for Blyzinskyj. 
Also contributing individually for the men 
was freshman Jan Switkowski, who was the fourth Gator to capture an Olympic Trial-qual-ifying time in the 200-meter butterfly, coming in first with a time of 2:01.08. 
Freshman diver Sam Smith, who already 
has an NCAA Diving Standard on all three boards, took first in both the one and three-meter board dives, edging out Georgia’s diver Ian Forlini.
“We were in some good races and we lost 
some close ones,” Troy said. 
“There were a few spots in the meet where 
we needed to take advantage of it. There are some real bright spots out there yet.”
For the women’s squad, senior Natalie 
Hinds dominated the meet, leading the wom-
en with three individual wins in the 50-meter 
freestyle, 100-meter butterfly and 100-meter freestyle races. 
She also combined with teammates Elisa-
vet Panti, Ashlee Linn and Mollie Pulte in the 400-meter freestyle relay to claim first place with a time of 3:54.09. 
Senior diver Kahlia Warner was close to 
making the Florida record books in the three-
meter, posting a career best of 373.28 in six 
dives, narrowly missing former Gator Monica Dodson’s 2011 mark of 373.85.
“Kahlia Warner had a really strong meet 
only missing the school record by a half a point — when you consider it was 373 points, that’s not very much,” diving coach Dale Schultz said in a release. 
Now, the Gators must focus on practic-
ing and polishing their swims if they want a chance to beat another SEC rival, South Caro-lina, at home this Friday.
“We’re going to take a look at where we’re 
at. We’re in it for the long haul – the meets that really count are in the spring,” Troy said. 
“We’re comfortable where we’re at but of 
course disappointed with a loss. There was certainly no lack of effort, we’ll re-tune a few 
things moving forward.”Gators lose second consecutive swimming and diving meet
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Florida’s defense squashed 
Georgia this weekend — on the 
volleyball court. 
The Gator volleyball team 
wasn’t in Jacksonville; it was 
about six hours north in Athens, 
Georgia, where it swept the Bull-dogs with the help of a dominant defensive performance on Sun-day.
With blockers stuffing shots 
like defensive lineman jumping to block field goal attempts and back row passers playing like ball 
hawking corners, UF held UGA to 
a -.031 hitting percentage.
The mark was the second-
lowest Florida has allowed and was just the second time this year it limited an opposing team to a negative line.
The mastermind behind the 
Gators defensive scheme, associ-
ate head coach Dave Boos, said 
one example of how elite the de-fense played was that not a single Bulldog attacker hit above .000.
“(It) means we’re doing a great 
job serving the ball, blocking and defending,” he said.
The heart of the defense Sun-
day wasn’t even a starter. 
It was sophomore setter Abby 
Detering.
Detering, who comes in to 
serve for sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan, led Florida on a 14-point scoring run behind the service line in the sec-ond set against Georgia.
On Friday night against Arkan-
sas, it was a seven-point streak in the second set.
“The highlight of that match 
was definitely Abby Detering,” Boos said.
Detering’s role has been slight-
ly unconventional this season.
Setters typically play right 
back defense their entire playing careers, but Boos and the rest of the coaching staff have asked her to serve and play left back de-fense.
Boos said she’s been handling 
it great.
“She comes in and serves for 
Rhamat Alhassan, (and) early in the season that was our worst 
point scoring rotation,” he said. 
“Now with her role it’s our 
best point scoring rotation, which 
is huge for us.”
Another driving force in the 
defense’s dominance has been UF’s blocking led by the nation’s leading blocker, the 6-foot-4 Al-hassan.
Pairing Alhassan and her 1.76 
blocks per set with the veteran senior middle blocker Simone An-twi presents quite the challenge to opposing offenses. Senior setter Mackenzie Da-
gostino has also been pivotal in 
the Gators’ success on defense.
Though she’s 5-foot-10, her 
0.93 blocks per set rank second 
among Florida players.
Boos said teams have routine-
ly tried to attack her size while avoiding Alhassan when swing-ing.
“Mackenzie definitely has that 
gritty mentality where she doesn’t wanna give up to anybody,” he said. 
“If you try to avoid Rhamat 
and go at Mackenzie she’ll make you pay.”
Teams have paid and it’s 
shown.
The last time UF allowed a hit-
ting percentage higher than .200 was eight games ago a 3-0 win against Texas A&M on Oct. 9.
Because the defense has played 
so well, Florida’s matches haven’t been as close as they were toward the beginning of the season.
This has opened the door for 
players like freshman middle 
blocker Taelor Kellum, who 
slammed the first two kills of her career Sunday in the third set.
Boos said the best part was 
watching the bench react to the kills.
“She works hard at practice 
behind two really good middles,” he said. 
“She’s in that mentee role in 
this point in time, but she’s doing a really good job of learning and getting better.”Florida’s defense dominates in winAlligator File Photo
UF swimmer Caeleb Dressel jumps into the pool at the start of the 200-yard 
breaststroke event during Day 3 of the 2014 Pinch a Penny Invitational. 
“Mackenzie definitely has 
that gritty mentality where 
she doesn’t wanna give up to 
anybody,”
Dave Boos
UF associate head coachUF prepping for Gamecocks
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan swings for a kill during Florida’s 3-0 win against T exas A&M on Oct. 9 in the O’Connell Center.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
to the University of Florida.”
When he was coaching at Ala-
bama, McElwain learned from 
one of the best in the business — 
Nick Saban — on how to avoid 
letdowns when presented with opportunities similar to the one the Gators are facing. 
McElwain said that Saban con-
stantly would tell his team to take things one day at a time since it was the better way to keep his team focused. 
It’s the same mindset the first-
year UF coach has brought with him from his days with the Crim-son Tide.   
“It’s instilled along the way 
that it doesn’t matter what the task is, that’s what you’re sup-posed to do. Go out and do your job,” McElwain said. “Obviously 
something that Nick (Saban) does 
an outstanding job of. You can’t get too high and you can’t get too low.
“You’ve got to understand, 
you’ve got to take care of what you can take care of now, because whatever the event is, whatever that is, you’re preparing for suc-
cess.”
With a 7-1 record and the No. 
11 ranking in the country, dis-
tractions could come easily for 
Florida. 
But the Gators have shown  
they’ve been able to handle all 
the adversity that has come their way this season. 
Whether it was the whirlwind 
of Will Grier’s suspension or De-iondre Porter’s arrest, the team has shown that it’s capable of cut-
ting out distractions.
It’s no different this week and 
the Gators are taking McElwain's 
advice to heart, focusing on the task at hand. 
“I don’t see why you would 
want to look a month ahead when there’s a lot of fun and a lot of football left to be played.” senior 
tight end Jake McGee said.
With the pressure the team is 
facing now, and all the national 
attention the Gators have gar-nered, being able to focus and 
prepare this week is what McEl-
wain wants to see.  
“There’s a lot of clutter out 
there, a lot of white noise out 
there, a lot of stuff that means ab-
solutely nothing,” McElwain said. 
“I’ll be excited to see how they 
handle it. That’s part of the grow-ing experience.”UF clinches 
trip to SEC title game with win
growth, the buy-in level, especially 
with the new players and the way the returning players are leading them," Butler said. 
"Just seeing tremendous indica-
tions that it’s going to be a really successful season.”
While pleased, Butler also said 
that the biggest emphasis heading into the regular season is going to be defense. 
That makes sense, given the loss 
of one of last year’s best defenders in Kayla Lewis. 
For this team to compete it’ll 
need to fill that void.
“The thing that we’re spend-
ing a lot of time (on is) just trying to generate a high level of aware-ness, defensive awareness, making sure that in transition we’re a really good transition defense team,” But-ler said.
“I wouldn’t say it’s a weakness, 
but it’s an area that we’re really try-ing to focus on right now.”
Senior guard January Miller felt 
that in the most recent game-style scrimmage the defense was okay, but that it could still use work. 
“We did pretty well in our scrim-
mage but I feel like it doesn’t hurt to 
work on defense,” she said. 
“It’s always good to be aware on 
defense and we have a pretty good 
team coming up so it’s important.”
That “team coming up” is Tem-
ple, and the Owls are coming off a season in which they finished with a 20-17 record and made a deep run in the women’s National Invitation 
Tournament. Florida struggled early on in 
road contests last season, going 1-3 
in the first four as opposed to 4-0 in the first four games at home. 
Playing the first game of the sea-
son in Philadelphia might prove to be challenging for Florida, but after both losing and gaining only one player in the offseason, most team 
members should be used to road 
contests by now. 
One player to watch in particular 
is junior forward Ronni Williams, who led the team in scoring last year with 10.3 points per game. 
Last week at practice, Williams 
broke the record for the team’s brick house award, which is given to a player for best exemplifying and executing certain values at practice. 
“Ronni Williams broke our brick 
house record for a +21 score," But-ler said. 
"Normally, whoever wins brick 
house on a daily basis, their score is somewhere between eight and ten so that was a pretty exceptional day and something to get excited about."
Something else for UF to get ex-
cited about is that the start of the regular season is now only ten days away. 
Even though the Gators are just 
"talkin' bout the game', they'll soon take the court for the real competi-tion. WHOOPS,  from pg13Florida started season 1-3 on the road last year
Defensive Player of the Year Kawhi Leonard. 
It always ends the same — after allowing 
Curry to get free, defenders can only watch and hope that his shot misses.
In the team's first three games of the sea-
son, Curry has compiled 118 points, 22 assists and 16 threes. 
And while there are other NBA superstars 
who can score just as much as Curry can, none can do so as thrillingly, and none place you on the edge of your seat each time he dribbles up the court in transition quite like Golden State’s star guard.
Only three other players in the history of the 
NBA have scored as many points as Curry has in the first three games of a season: Wilt Cham-berlain, Jerry West and Michael Jordan.
So, after Curry scored 53 points in Golden 
State’s shellacking of New Orleans on Satur-day, the incumbent MVP was met with a post-game question that he probably receives on a regular basis.
“Is there any way to stop you?” 
Curry simply smiled and replied in a couple 
sentences of humble player-speak, praising his 
teammates and spouting some cliché about how the Warriors are taking their season one game at a time.
He can’t answer truthfully, because the 
truth would sound overconfident and arrogant and fabricated: There is no way to stop him.
Ultimately, what separates Curry from the 
other athletes across the world who sit atop their craft is his unpredictability. His improvi-sation. His creativity. His jaw-dropping offen-sive ability.
Curry is the most entertaining athlete in the 
world, and it’s not particularly close.COLUMN,  from pg13
AP Photo
Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry drives to the basket in the second half 
during the Warriors 134-120 win on Saturday in New Orleans. 
FOOTBALL,  from pg13
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF guard January Miller goes up for a layup during Florida's 76-75 loss against Vanderbilt on Feb. 19 in the O'Connell Center. “W e did pretty well in our 
scrimmage but I feel like 
it doesn't hurt to work on 
defense.”
January Miller
UF guard16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
Coach Emily Glaser said on Monday the 
Gators can compete with any team in the na-
tion. 
And while the claim may be bold, it might 
also be accurate, considering how the wom-
en’s golf team finished the Fall season. 
No. 12 Florida has high hopes for the Spring 
after capping off the Fall with a win at the Ala-
mo Invitational in San Antonio, Texas. 
But arguably the most impressive aspect of the tournament was Florida beating out South-eastern Conference rival No. 7 Arkansas by a 
staggering 12-stroke margin. 
Consider UF’s underwhelming eighth place 
finish in the Windy City Collegiate in Chicago 
three weeks prior and the win becomes more promising. 
Glaser said that after a tournament like the 
Collegiate, you have to dig deep and find some positive takeaways. 
For Florida, it meant realizing that it had yet 
to reach its potential. 
“We left there just knowing we were ca-
pable of more,” Glaser said. “And I think that really inspired them. … 
That was the biggest difference and why we 
were able to come through last week.”
Glaser said the team’s win in San Antonio 
proves that it has the skills to compete with 
upper-echelon programs, and the players must now focus on buying into the system, which means trusting their teammates and them-selves. 
“We have the physical talent. It’s about get-
ting these girls to believe that we can play with 
anyone on any given day,” Glaser said. “And I 
think they’re starting to see that.”
UF certainly has enough talented personnel to do the job. 
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson ended the 
Fall with two top-10 finishes, including sharing a win in the season-opening Cougar Classic. 
Freshman Sam Wagner took home two top-
25 finishes in her first season, highlighted by taking third place at the Mercedes-Benz Col-legiate Championships. 
Junior Maria Torres looks poised to have a 
breakout year, with the third-lowest average on the team and a win at the Alamo Invita-
tional.
Read the rest of the story online at www.
alligator.org/sports. Florida seeks to carry Fall momentum into Spring season