We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 8 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
Gators searching for consistency 
as season opener approaches
UF begins season Saturday, pg 13
Slating opens today for Student Body
It will be held in the Reitz Union until Tuesday, pg. 3
UF food pantry ribbon cutting ceremony
For more photos, pg. 8UF vet hopes to save 1 million cats
Participating shelters have already saved more than 
250,000 cats from being euthanized, pg. 5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Gideon Alake, a 36-year-old UF nematology doctoral student, browses dinner mixes inside the Field 
and Fork Food Pantry on Tuesday. As of Tuesday morning, the pantry, which has been open since sum-mer, distributed 1,862 pounds of food to 140 people.
By Gabriella Nuñez
Alligator Staff Writer
The ceremonial green ribbon was 
cut and the UF Field and Fork Pantry 
served the Gator Good.
Fans whirred underneath a white 
tent, where about 75 faculty, stu-
dents and community members 
crowded to show support for the pantry, which provides food to hun-gry Gators.
The pantry has been open since 
summer, but on Tuesday, McCarty’s yard was ﬂ  ooded with people cel-ebrating its efforts to combat food insecurity.
“It doesn’t get any better than 
this,” UF President Kent Fuchs said.
Six minutes after the event start-
ed, people who worked at the pantry switched out two recycling-bin-sized donation containers.  The bins were ﬁ  lled throughout the event.
“It’s all part of Feeding Amer-
ica,” said Rose Curcio, the direc-
tor of marketing and communica-
tions for Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. “Marcia, the CEO (of Bread of the Mighty) has been discussing the need for this on UF for over 10 years.”
At UF, 10 percent of students 
report food insecurity, said Dave Kratzer, vice president for student 
affairs.
Since the opening of the pantry, it 
has served 140 campus-community 
members 1,862 pounds of food, said Anna Prizzia, co-chair of the univer-sity-wide pantry-planning commit-tee.
 The story of UF’s new pantry 
started with Marcia Conwell, CEO  Ribbon cutting honors 
UF food pantry By Emily Cochrane 
and Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org,
gsabella@alligator.org
 
Gainesville Police announced Tuesday the 
arrest of 21 people – including university stu-
dents and staff – for reportedly soliciting sex with a minor after the conclusion of a ﬁ  ve-
day undercover operation.
A Santa Fe professor, a Santa Fe stu-
dent and two UF students were among the 
21 men arrested during Operation Panther, which was conducted by the Internet Crimes 
Against Children task force, according to po-
lice reports.
During the operation, which began last Wednesday and ended Monday, 11 federal and state detectives identiﬁ  ed 90 suspects after speaking with more than 2,000 people, said Gainesville Police detective John Mad-sen, the task force commander.
The 21 men, 13 of whom are Gainesville 
residents, were arrested after they virtually arranged to meet with ofﬁ  cers posing as teen-age boys and girls, Madsen said. The men, ranging in age from 19 to 56 years old, trav-eled anywhere from three minutes to more than an hour to the arranged meetings.Police arrested Kevin Brian Kasper, 51, 
who is listed as a math professor on the Santa Fe College website, at about 11:40 p.m. Thursday after he reportedly sent sexual text messages and emails to an ofﬁ  cer who was posing as the parent of a 14-year-old girl, ac-cording to a police report.  
Kasper told the supposed parent that he 
wanted to have sex with his or her daughter and that he’s had a vasectomy, according to the report. Undercover GPD operation results in 21 arrests
MAJORITY OF FUNDING CAME 
FROM FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Research on new technology for pros-
thetics, eliminating citrus greening and 
curing hepatitis C is in the works thanks to 
the record amount of research funding UF 
received in the 2015 ﬁ  scal year.
UF received a total of $706.8 million in research funding during the 2015 ﬁ  scal year, which ended June 30. This surpassed 
the record set in 2014 by $5.1 million, ac-
cording to University of Florida News.
Funding from private industries was at 
a record high of $102 million, a 41 percent increase from 2014. The majority of fund-
ing, $432 million, came from the federal 
government.
“I think to be a successful research in-
stitution and continue to grow we have to 
work with those government agencies and 
industry and a good mix of sponsors,” said Joseph Kays, UF director of research com-munications.
The College of Medicine received $268.3 
million; the Institute of Food and Agricul-tural Sciences received $125.8 million; the College of Engineering received $79.7 mil-lion; and the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences received $34.8 million. The re-
maining funds, $198.2 million, were dis-
tributed among the rest of the colleges.
“I think we have a remarkable col-
lection of faculty members who are very competitive in writing proposals to various 
agencies and industries,” said David Nor-
ton, UF vice president for research.
Most funding usually goes to the STEM 
areas because they have more opportuni-
ties for research, Norton said.UF receives $706.8 million in funding this ﬁ  scal yearSEE STING,  PAGE 4
SEE PANTRY,  PAGE 9
SEE RESEARCH,  PAGE 4Four related to UF, Santa Fe
“I think we have a remarkable 
collection of faculty members who are 
very competitive in writing proposals 
to various agencies and industries.”
David Norton
UF vice president for researchCAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate the 
first home football game of 
the season with Game Day: 
Swamp Chomp on Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature 
a live magic show from ma-
gician Ran’D Shine, Stuff-A-Gator, a mechanical football and a headphone disco dance party. GatorNights will also be 
hosting showings of the movie 
“Tomorrowland”  at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will 
end with free barbecue during 
Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to 
participate. Students are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-
ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize win-ners will receive $50 and third-
prize winners will receive $25. 
Total prizes will equal $525.Submission period will be open until Oct. 9. For more informa-tion please visit ufic.ufl.edu/
PD/photocontest.html or email 
mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Green Drinks
Green Drinks meets Cinema Verde will host a “Welcome Back” networking and film night with a special reprisal of our Cinema Verde Audience 
Choice 2012 award-winning 
film, “Confessions of an Eco-Terrorist.” Please join Cinema Verde on Sept. 2 for happy 
hour with locals interested in 
creating a sustainable future — a world Cinema Verde wants to live in. The event is from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Market 
Street Pub at 112 SW 1st Ave. 
The film begins at 6:30 p.m., and tickets are available at the door  or online at http://www.
cinemaverde.org/tickets/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CLARIFICATION
In, a story published Tuesday titled, "UF med students learn hands-on in new building," 
the name of the building is 
the George T. Harrell, M.D., Medical Education Building. The Alligator reported other-
wise in the story. In the same 
story, the name of the center, which Dr. Velazquez is direc-tor of, is the Dr. Angelo and Alberta Anaclerio Learning and 
Assessment Center.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 7
HIGH  90° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
What are you waiting for?
Activate your Cengage digital tools  
today so you can start moving to the  
head of the class.
Text LEARN to 80565 to activate.
Go Digital. Get Ahead.
SLATING WILL END TUESDAY
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Students interested in running as a UF 
student senator can go to the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom in rooms A and E today for Fall 2015 elections.
Qualifying and slating will take place in 
the Reitz Grand Ballroom today from noon to 6 p.m., Thursday from noon to 8 p.m., 
Friday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and Tuesday 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
For Fall elections, 50 students are elected 
for Senate seats based on residency, includ-ing zip codes surrounding the university and 
residence hall areas. 
To qualify, students must be full-time, 
have proof of residency and their student ID, UF Supervisor of Elections Sam Book wrote 
in an email.
Students  must prove their residency by 
providing either certiﬁ  ed mail delivered by postal service, Alachua County voter regis-
tration card, original copy of lease, original 
copy of utility or cable bill prior to qualify-ing, original copy of promissory note or lease 
from fraternity or sorority house, original 
copy of homeowner’s insurance, or original 
copy of warranty deed.
After a student qualiﬁ  es for a seat, he or 
she can choose to run, which is called slat-ing, with a political party or run as an inde-
pendent.  
The parties registered for Fall 2015 elec-
tions are Access Party, Greek Party, Impact 
Party, Keg Party, Pants Party, Students Party, 
Swamp Party, Taco Libre and Unite Party.
The only parties registered for qualify-ing and slating are Access Party and Impact 
Party. Swamp Party has registered but not for slating.
Swamp Party President Davis Bean said 
he doesn’t know if Swamp will be slating but 
said he thinks Swamp registered to slate.
“Obviously we’ve lost a lot of core mem-
bers (to Impact Party),” he said.
Impact Party President Chris Boyett said 
he hopes students who want to slate with Impact are passionate and enthusiastic about 
joining Student Government.
“We’re looking for any Gator that wants 
to be involved,” he said.
Access Party President Kalyani Hawaldar 
said she’ll be looking for students who are passionate about the university and want to keep SG open.
“Our objective is to keep delivering the 
change that students demanded,” she said.Slating opens today for Student Body, held at Reitz Union
CAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nadia Blaszczyk has been in 
America for two and a half weeks.
“I want to travel as much as 
I can, and traveling is not the cheapest,” Blaszczyk said. 
A junior taking classes for one 
semester at UF, she majors in American Studies back home in Poland.
Today, the 21-year-old will 
attend the Career Resource Cen-ter’s part-time job fair, which will feature 38 employers from UF departments and private com-panies. 
The event will run from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Breezeway.
“The UF Career Resource Cen-ter is dedicated to creating con-
nections for its students,” said 
Jasmin Robinson, assistant direc-tor for recruitment services and events at the CRC. “We just want for students to 
be aware of this opportunity,” she said.
Despite the large pool of po-
tential employers, Blaszczyk said she has limited options. 
She’s an exchange student 
without a social security number, so she can only work on campus for a university department.    
“I want to see what UF is of-fering,” she said. “As an interna-tional student, I want to see the requirements and offers.”
Robinson expects anywhere 
between 800 and 1,000 students to stop by the fair. 
She said students should dress 
casually and bring an updated re-sume with them.
“Ultimately, we want to get 
Gators hired,” she said.
Reitz Union job fair, opportunity for international students
“Ultimately, we want to get 
Gators hired.”
Jasmin Robinson
Assistant director for 
recruitment servicesVoting locations include:
  Broward Hall Basement
 Health Science Center 
 Room C2-041C
 Heavener Hall Room 202 Jennings Library The Law School (Bruton Geer)
 Marston Science Library
 Murphree Area Commons
 Norman Hall Education Library
 Reitz Union Computer Lab Southwest Recreation Center
• Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce Room C 2024   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
The Senate chambers were relaxed Tues-
day night until a heated public debate regard-
ing the recent formation of a new party was 
addressed.
Former Access Sen. Chris Boyett spoke 
during public debate about his decision to 
form Impact Party. He said he had been think-
ing about switching for a long time.
This is the third political party Boyett has 
affiliated with during his time as a UF student 
senator.
In Fall 2012, he ran to be a Hume Area 
Swamp senator but lost to Students Party can-didate Steven Elkington. Last Spring, he ran for a Liberal Arts and Sciences seat under Ac-cess and won. He was inactive during sum-mer.
Now, this semester, he is an independent 
senator running with Impact along with a for-mer Access Senator, Saneh Ste. Claire (Inde-pendent, CLAS). They are currently the only members of Impact Party to come from Ac-cess. Boyett said he thinks this will change.
His allegiance is to the students, not a par-
ty, Boyett said.
“My loyalty will never lie with any party,” 
he said. “I hope you will see Impact Party as others see it, as a way to move students for-ward.”
He said his decision to form Impact came 
after he saw past trends in Senate repeating.“I started seeing trends in Access Party that 
I saw in Swamp Party,” Boyett said. “It was the same game, just different players.”
Sen. Ste. Claire and Sen. Jason Richards 
(as of press time Swamp) also spoke on behalf of Impact. Ste. Claire said she saw one sided-ness and retaliation grow as time went on.“We can either accept these conditions 
as they are or work to include people,” Ste. Claire said.
Richards said he’s looking forward to 
working with senators on both sides of the aisle.
“It’s time to change what’s been happen-ing,” he said. 
Minority party leader Michael Christ (Ac-
cess, Graduate) disagrees. He said none of his party members are planning on switching. As 
of press time, the number of senators who are 
planning on switching party affiliation has not been confirmed.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff  
Sen. Chris Boyett speaks about the new Impact Party during UF’s Student Senate 
meeting Tuesday night.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Impact Party brings tension to UF Senate chambers
He reportedly bought Skittles as a gift on 
his way to meet the officer, according to the report.
“I think that anytime someone is in a posi-
tion of authority, and more importantly, in a position as a mentor and shows this predis-position, it’s a concern,” Madsen said.
Later that night, police arrested Eugene 
James Slevin, 19, after he reportedly mes-saged an officer who was posing as a 13-year-old girl on social media and asked for sex.
Slevin is a Santa Fe student, associate reg-
istrar Jennifer Thomas said.
“The more serious the offense, the more 
serious the ramifications,” said Santa Fe Po-lice Chief Ed Book.
“We do not tolerate victimization of oth-
ers.”
Two UF students are also among the list of 
reported offenders. Authorities arrested An-dres Felipe Ortiz-Gomez, 22, at about 10:30 p.m. Saturday after he reportedly contacted an officer who was posing as a 14-year-old girl on an e-commerce website.Ortiz-Gomez is a fifth-year electrical engi-
neering student, but is not currently enrolled, 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
He walked four miles in the rain to meet 
the girl after exchanging 
texts and emails, according to a police report.
Police arrested another 
UF student, Kaelan Tyler Beddoe, 21, early Monday 
after he reportedly drove 
to the Kangaroo Express at 3838 N. Main St. to meet an 
undercover officer.
He is an interdisciplin-
ary studies junior through 
agriculture, Orlando said.
Madsen said police ar-
rested Beddoe at about 3:20 a.m. after a two-hour 
search and discovered he 
had been following police and lying about his name 
and car.
Police found a bat, a pair of rubber gloves, 
a rope and a tarp in Beddoe’s car, a discov-ery Madsen called “concerning,” but he said Beddoe had not given a reason for having the items in his car. As of press time, it is unclear 
if the ongoing investigation will have any im-
pact on their status as UF students.
“We don’t have any 
prescribed sanctions,” Or-
lando said. “We handle these on a case-by-case ba-
sis and take into account a 
variety of different factors 
that might affect the out-
come for the students.”
Madsen said that Op-
eration Panther — named 
because a panther is a 
predator who hunts preda-tors — is the task force’s first operation since Opera-
tion Pegasus in July 2013, 
which saw the arrest of 
seven Gainesville men. Au-
thorities have been plan-ning the operation since 
May. 
Operations are limited in frequency and 
length due to budgets and available man-
power, Madsen said.“I think they’re getting smarter,” he said. 
“We’re having to expend more effort.”
But he said he considers finishing an op-
eration with at least one solid case a success.
“The point is to respond to the threat,” he 
said. “Having solid cases where we respect 
the rights of everyone involved and we get a conviction is a success.”
Madsen declined to identify any of the 
websites used in the operation due to ongo-
ing investigations.
“I’m no longer surprised,” he said after 
the conference, despite calling some of the 
described sexual scenarios sadistic. “Rarely, 
I get surprised anymore.”
Police arrested the men on two charges of 
obscene communication and one charge for the unlawful use of a two-way communica-
tion device. Authorities are meeting with the 
U.S. Attorney within the next two weeks to 
determine whether the men will receive fed-
eral charges.
Authorities took them to the Alachua 
County Jail, where they remain as of press 
time in lieu of $150,000 bonds, except Kasper, 
whose bond is $75,000. The bonds for the 
other men range from $75,000 to $300,000.The operation was an undercover online child-sex investigation “Historically, the College of 
Medicine and the health center 
in general leads the way,” Kays 
said. “Those projects often in-
volve a lot of people. There’s a lot of equipment. They’re expensive projects.”
IFAS researchers were award-ed more than $13.4 million to fund studies on eliminating citrus greening, a plant disease that is threatening Florida’s citrus indus-try.
“We are working on ways to 
trick the bacteria that causes greening into basically killing itself,” said Dean Gabriel, a pro-
fessor and researcher of plant 
pathology at IFAS. “This level of funding enhances our research capability.”
Other projects that will be 
funded include testing new ad-vances in prosthetics for mili-
tary veterans through the College 
of Engineering, as well as col-laborating with pharmaceutical companies to research treatment 
options and potential cures for 
hepatitis C through the College of Medicine.
“[The funding] gives our fac-
ulty and our students an opportu-nity to work on really important problems for this generation and generations to come,” Norton said. 
“The fact that we have a large 
record year just reflects very posi-
tively on the quality of the re-
search we do and the quality of the faculty and students we have here at the University of Florida,” 
he said. 
RESEARCH,  from pg1The STEM fields typically get more funding for research
Beddoe
Ortiz-Gomez
Kasper
Slevin
STING,  from pg1“W e are working on ways to 
trick the bacteria that causes 
greening into basically killing 
itself.”
Dean Gabriel
UF professorAs Impact created its Facebook and Twit-
ter accounts, other social media accounts 
were created in retaliation. A fake Impact Party Twitter account announced Sen. Susan Webster (Independent, District A) as “our next Student Body President.”
But Boyett said he thinks students will see 
through it.
“Students aren’t buying what’s on this 
fake account,” he said. “I think students should look to our page for answers.”
When asked if Webster would run as UF’s 
next Student Body president, Boyett said that decision has not been made yet.
“Susan’s a part of Impact Party, but nev-
er has there been any discussion as to who would be a candidate (for president),” Boy-ett said.
A Facebook political group called “Stop 
UF Impact Party,” has posted several Face-book statuses of Swamp senators showing their support for Impact. The group also has a Twitter page. The group declined to com-ment, wishing to remain anonymous.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 PARTICIPATING SHLETERS 
HAVE SAVED MORE THAN 
250,000 CATS  FROM 
BEING EUTHANIZED.
By Ryan Harke
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Cats will be able to live their full 
nine lives thanks in part to a UF pro-fessor.
A recent initiative launched by 
UF and the University of California at Davis veterinary schools seeks to save 1 million cats across North America from being euthanized for more than five years.
“Cats in shelters are euthanized 
at a much higher rate than dogs are, and we felt it was time to turn the spotlight on the unique needs of shelter cats,” said Dr. Julie Levy, a UF professor of shelter medicine who helped launch the program.
The cats rescued by the challenge 
are housed in animal shelters.
“Our goal is to give shelters tools 
for saving cats that we have found to be very effective at other shelters,” Levy said.
The project will cost $1.8 million 
over the course of five years, which is money the program already has 
due to a donation from Maddie’s 
Fund, a foundation dedicated to the well-being of companion animals.
“The campaign offers practical 
choices to reduce euthanasia and increase live outcomes for shelter cats,” said Patricia Diskant, 24, a third-year doctoral student at UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine. She 
assisted in research and instruction 
for the Million Cat Challenge.
Joy Drawdy, co-owner of local 
pet store Earth Pets and founder of Gainesville Pet Rescue, observed how effective the program has been in Gainesville after adopting cats 
from the Alachua County Humane 
Society.“The return-to-field initiative in 
the Million Cat Challenge is the only alternative to being euthanized for these feral shelter cats,” Drawdy 
said.
According to the program’s 
website, participating shelters have saved the lives of more than 250,000 
cats so far, and the number contin-ues to grow.
“We are hopeful that we will save 
1 million cats before our five years are up,” Levy said. “We intend to save as many cats as possible.”
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator 
Amber Oden, 25, feeds a treat to Taz, a 4-year-old female cat, at the Alachua County Humane Society while Margo (from left), Odin and Willow play on the floor.
UF vet hopes to save 1 million catsSTATE
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A petition is on the rise to de-
feat legislation that would allow concealed carry on campus.
The online petition, which has 
already gained 2,000 signatures 
from the coasts of Miami to Se-
attle, opposes recently introduced legislation that would amend a Florida statute to allow concealed weapon license holders to conceal carry firearms on Florida campus-es — including UF and Santa Fe College.
Campaign to Keep Guns Off 
Campus Executive Director Andy Pelosi launched the petition Aug. 10. The organization’s aim is to defeat the legislation.
“The petition is really just one 
tactic,” Pelosi said. “It’s one way for people to take action.”
In addition to online, the bills 
have faced opposition from Flori-
da colleges and universities. Both 
UF and Santa Fe oppose such leg-islation.
In August, both bills were re-
ferred to committees for review. Pelosi said he anticipates the bills will be reviewed as early as mid-September and is encouraged by the current number of signatures.
“But we’ve got a long ways to 
go in terms of getting the word out there to Floridians around the state that this measure is back and it needs to be defeated,” Pelosi said.
But not all Floridians are against the legislation.
President of Students for Con-
cealed Carry at UF Joshua Roe, 33, supports it and said he thinks those opposing the legislation don’t fully understand what it would and would not allow.
“We need to have a conversa-
tion about the reality of civil liber-ties,” Roe said. “This is, I believe, much more than just some hot political topic. This literally comes down to my protection and the protection of others, the protection of students on the university cam-pus, the protection of my spouse and my newborn daughter.”
With more than 50,000 stu-
dents enrolled at UF, Roe, a tour-ism and recreation doctoral stu-dent, said it isn’t possible for UPD to provide protection for all stu-dents at all times.
It isn’t that firearms will pro-
vide protection in life-threatening situations, Roe said.
“A weapon or firearm is go-
ing to be a much more immediate response for someone to defend themselves using that inanimate object as a device to equalize the power disparity in those situations than using a cellphone to call and wait for police officers to show up after the fact and take a report,” 
Roe said.Online petition 
opposes conceal carry on Florida campuses
LOCAL
By Megan Shea
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
As students rush to purchase books at the 
beginning of the semester, there is one less bookstore in Gainesville.
Books-A-Million recently closed its doors at 
its Northwest 13th Street location, leaving stu-dents with one less place to scour the shelves.
In its place, 2nd & Charles will open in 
the middle of November, offering students a chance to exchange or buy books, vinyl, CDs, 
e-readers, tablets, video games, movies, com-
ics and audiobooks. The store will also offer visitors a chance to convert CDs into vinyls.
Scott Kappler, vice president of marketing 
at Books-A-Million, Inc., said it’s a broader market for students interested in collectibles.
For those reluctant to part with Books-A-
Million, the location on West Newberry Road remains open, he said.
Describing the new store as a buy, sell, 
trade market, Kappler said customers would be able to peruse a variety of reused and recycled goods. Customers who sell will receive store credit or cash.Customers can sell their lightly loved col-
lectibles and get something new in return; it’s the “thrill of the hunt,”  Kappler said.
Casey Twist, an exploratory engineering 
freshman, said she is looking forward to the opening.
“It’s nice to make money off my paperbacks 
rather than letting them sit and collect dust,” the 18-year-old said.Books-A-Million closes, consignment store to open in placeBy Ebony Joseph
Alligator Contributing Writer
The newly expanded Reitz Union includes 
a wing that will make UF the first university to have more than one space to serve black and Hispanic students.
Part of the estimated $75-million project 
fund for the Reitz is allocated to a Multicul-tural and Diversity Affairs wing, Eddie Daniels, the executive director of the Reitz, wrote in an email.  The new space will integrate the Latino-
Hispanic Engagement Center, Asian Pacific Is-lander American Affairs, LGBT Affairs and the 
newly created Black Affairs department, which 
will encompass the Institute of Black Culture and Black Enrichment Center, said Vee Smith, director of Black Affairs and state coordinator of the Association of Black Culture Centers.
The IBC and Institute of Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures, also known as La Casita, will still have their locations on West University Av-enue.
The wing will include executive offices, conference rooms, lounge areas and a comput-er lab, all of which are expected to open with 
the rest of the Reitz in January, Smith said.
Smith said she hopes the new space will 
promote an open dialogue about race relations 
and serve as a place to host events, round-table discussions and documentary viewings.
“If you’re not black, a lot of students find 
it really difficult to walk into the Institute of Black Culture,” she said. “So hopefully we’ll have students that don’t identify as black that 
feel more comfortable walking into (the Re-
itz).”
She explained that she’d like to work with 
other multicultural offices to discuss intersec-tionality within different communities. Smith said this is a culturally critical time, 
citing the Black Lives Matter movement.
“This generation is now experiencing what 
you read about in the books,” Smith said.   Biochemistry sophomore Christopher Wilde said he learned a lot about himself and his culture in La Casita.
Wilde, 19, is now an ambassador for the 
Hispanic-Latino Institute of Culture and also served as an ambassador for the Institute of Black Culture over the summer.
He said the experience helped him recog-
nize how a shared space could serve as a hub to engage all groups on campus.
“Since we’re gonna be next to all these 
communities,” he said, “we can build allies.”Reitz to include more spaces for black and Hispanic students
“The petition is really just one 
tactic. It’s one way for people to 
take action.”
Andy Pelosi
Campaign to Keep Guns Off 
Campus executive directorThe wing will open in JanuaryThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Last week I discovered that my alma mater, 
Florida State University, had blocked me from commenting on any of its social me-
dia websites. This meant anything posted 
by its official Facebook page, writing on 
its wall or commenting on photos posted by the school’s official Instagram account. As far as I un-
derstand it, this occurred because I had exercised 
my rights and been critical of the school and the image it attempts to maintain in social media.
This is to say that a university funded by the 
state engages in censorship and curtails free speech. This 
corruption of the intended functions of a center of higher 
learning can be attributed to one salient factor: the imposi-tion of the business model upon the academy. 
In 2007, the Charles Koch Foundation, an exponent of 
the “free market,” proposed a $1.5 million contribution to FSU’s economics department with the stipulation that they have authority over the curriculum and approval of profes-sors. The school’s administrators accepted the offer, dem-onstrating the value of the almighty dollar and their indiffer-
ence toward academic freedom.
Last year, despite near universal opposition from students 
and faculty, the board of trustees selected John Thrasher, a 
politician and businessman with no academic experience, 
to be the university’s president, citing his ability to raise 
money for the school. It merits mention that the chairman of the board of trustees, Allan Bense, like Thrasher, has no background in academia — only in business and politics.
In 2011, Florida Gov. Rick Scott (whose recent re-elec-
tion campaign was chaired by none other than Thrasher) expressed his desire to defund programs like anthropol-ogy because they are not presumed to be “lucrative.” Any consideration of worth, in the mercantile-capitalist men-tality, ultimately entails a consideration of cold hard cash. We know that it means nothing that Thrasher can raise large sums of money (per his 
political connections) for FSU if the money will 
be directed away from the humanities and liberal arts and solely piped into fields that are classical-ly “lucrative,” such as business and marketing.
Noam Chomsky, professor of linguistics at 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has writ-ten extensively on the problem of the corporatiza-tion of education and maintains that the process 
of transforming the academy into a big business will simply 
mechanize education, removing inquiry and reducing edu-
cators to dispensable pawns.
It should come as no surprise that a small group of plu-
tocrats who have hijacked a university would employ disin-
genuous image promotion in social media and censor those 
who critique this image, as that is the precise behavior of to-talitarian big business. You can take politicians or business-men out of the smoky back rooms, but you cannot shake them of their corruption or disdain for democracy.
The example of FSU should serve as an omen to public 
universities around the country. As businessmen and poli-ticians, often one in the same, seize control over centers of higher learning, imposing upon them an anti-democratic 
corporate model, it should come as no surprise that the na-
ture of the university is thoroughly corrupted and its quality diminished.
It is my hope that the students and faculty of FSU fight 
back and reclaim not only their ongoing education and ca-
reers but the future of higher learning itself.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.Column
The Perils of the Corporatization of EducationGator Growl has a 
talent problem
“The year is 2007. After debuting at No. 1 on the 
Billboard 200 with his album “T.I. vs. T.I.P.,” southern hip-hop star T.I. performs a triumphant set as the headlining artist at UF’s annual Gator Growl event. Backed by a strong setlist consist-
ing of Atlanta trap classics such as “Big Things Poppin’ (Do It),” “Rubber Band Man” and “Bring Em Out,” the overwhelm-ingly positive response to the show not only cements T.I.’s self-proclaimed status as the “King of the South” but reaffirms Gator Growl as a top-notch event that brings consistently ex-citing, relevant artists to The Swamp.”
We have taken the liberty of placing quotation marks 
around the above paragraph, since unfortunately it has no ba-sis whatsoever in UF history. The headlining artist for 2007’s 
Gator Growl was actually Lynyrd Skynyrd, who delivered their 
biggest hit, “Sweet Home Alabama,” back in 1974. Not exactly the caliber of artist that gets college students excited.
As we covered Tuesday, the announcement of this year’s 
Gator Growl artists was met with a collective shrug, followed directly by a Google search to find out who the hell Echos-mith and Jana Kramer are. This year’s disappointing lineup is the latest in a long line of safe and boring Gator Growl picks. The Gator Growl Wikipedia page is littered with instances of 
headlining performers who either stopped being relevant long 
before becoming a Gator Growl act or were likely chosen to be as inoffensive as possible. Of course, this isn’t the case across the board; we’re sure whoever booked Mitch Hedberg back in 2000 was fired for that blunder.
But that’s the point: We need more Mitch Hedberg types in 
Gator Growl lineups, as well as Student Government Produc-tions events. 
UF is a college filled with vibrant, creative young people, 
not a casino populated by chain-smoking grandmothers. Meaning, when artists come to campus, we want more than just “the hits.” The acts that come to campus ought to be com-pelling, innovative and, as much as I loathe using the word, cool.
Without having an inside peek at the inner workings of 
Gator Growl and SGP, it’s hard to say exactly where the prob-lem stems from. Is it a consequence of organizers and produc-ers having a warped notion of what constitutes good music or 
simply not caring all that much? It certainly can’t be a money 
problem, since SGP coughed up a combined $160,000 for this year’s acts.
We can say with certainty that it’s not a money problem. 
We’re the University of Florida: We’re prestigious as hell and have the money that prestige entails. If Florida Gulf Coast Uni-versity — a significantly smaller college than UF — could af-ford Kendrick Lamar in 2013 after his breakthrough release “good kid, m.A.A.d city,” there is no reason to believe that a 
lack of funds is stopping Gator Growl and SGP from arranging 
quality acts.
The most upsetting thing about all of this — and the detail 
that should upset the UF Student Body the most — is that Flor-ida State University’s student production organization, Union Productions, trounces us in every conceivable way when it comes to booking talent. We have it on good authority that in two weeks there will be a mass exodus from Gainesville to Tallahassee to see iLoveMakonnen, an artist who needs no 
introduction.
We’re the University of Florida: We have the best city, the 
best students and the best faculty because we’re the most kick-
ass college in Florida. Let’s work on getting the best talent.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 My name is Kalyani Hawaldar, and 
I am your Access Party President. The beginning of September means the start of football season, but it also means the beginning of 
another Student Government election cycle.
In the Spring, as a grassroots campaign, 
Access Party was grounded in our hard-
working candidates, dedicated volunteers 
and, most importantly, each and every one of you.  
We listened.
We spoke.
And we fought for every Gator.Thanks to all of you, we made history together. 
But our work was not over on election night. 
Since then, Access Party has been dedicated to 
making SG accountable, accessible and affordable. 
Our promises were not empty. They were real.Our executive branch ticket has been fighting to 
bring the change that you demanded and voted for in the Spring.
We’ve delivered on making campus an open 
place for every student regardless of background by allowing students from every area of campus to get 
involved in SG.
We’ve delivered on cutting wasteful spending by 
refusing salaries and eliminating wasteful programs 
that were not helping students.
We’ve delivered on transparency and account-
ability by having the most accessible administration in SG history.
We’ve delivered on college affordability by suc-
cessfully lobbying for a yearlong textbook sales tax.
But we’re not done yet.I am proud to be leading a team of student lead-
ers that is dedicated to serving the Student Body. We at Access Party want you to be a part of this 
movement because we are for every Gator.
But we need your help. 
We were able to win the executive ticket in the 
Spring thanks to everyday students taking a stand and fighting for change. 
Everyday Gators who may not have ever voted 
in an SG election before or may never have thought they could make an impact on SG.
The Fall election is fast approaching, 
and the Student Senate is up for grabs. 
With your help, SG can finally be given 
back to the people it is supposed to serve: the students.
You have the chance to make a real dif-
ference at your university by running for Senate, getting involved in the campaign, signing up to volunteer or even just join-ing our email list. 
Check us out on Facebook or at our website: 
ufaccessparty.com.
The slating process for Senate candidates begins 
today. 
Access is for every Gator because we are made 
up of every Gator. 
Regardless of background, connections or orga-
nizational affiliation there is a place for you in our party.
Slating will take place in the Reitz Grand Ball-
room today from noon to 6 p.m., Thursday from noon to 8 p.m., Friday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 
Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. I hope to see you 
there!
If you have any questions, please reach out to 
me at ufaccesspresident@gmail.com, or contact me 
directly at (904) 537-6215.
See you in the Reitz Grand Ballroom! Go Gators!
Guest column
Kalyani
Hawaldar
Speaking OutSo, the MTV Video Music 
Awards happened.
I’ve found that usu-
ally, one doesn’t have to actually watch the 
VMAs to feel like you are right there in the thick of its glitter, 
glamour and occasional gut-
wrenching awkwardness. 
This year there were awk-
ward moments such as, oh I don’t know, when 
Justin Bieber started 
sobbing on stage. 
Or when Nicki 
Minaj called Miley 
Cyrus a bitch when 
accepting her award. 
Super awkward.I didn’t watch the 
VMAs live, but I sure 
heard about it. 
Almost as soon as anything 
happened on stage, there were 
hundreds of tweets and articles 
clamoring to talk about it.
Scrolling through social 
media the next day, giggling 
to myself about people being scandalized by Miley’s (lack of) 
clothing, I had to wonder: Do 
the VMAs really even matter?
The VMAs do what all award 
shows do; they entertain and 
shock their audience. We get 
whipped up into a frenzy over this kind of thing. As Van Toffler, executive producer of this year’s VMAs, said in a re-
cent CNNMoney article, “We’re 
happy when there’s chaos.”
It’s kind of shallow of us.But then, many things in life 
are darn shallow. 
Caring about what your Star-
bucks order is going to be is a little selfish. 
There are starving people 
right here in Gainesville, so does it really matter if you get your extra shot of espresso in that caramel latte? 
And yet, I love Starbucks. I care about my Starbucks. I even have the app — work-
ing towards that gold card is no easy feat, y’all.
On Snapchat, your selfie is 
often only visible for 10 sec-onds. 
Who would bother to care? 
But Snapchat is also one of 
the fastest growing methods 
of social media available, with nearly 100 million daily users. 
I’d like to put it out there that 
I only just discovered the “My Story” feature, and I’m a little addicted already.
Life is full of vapid entertain-
ment, pursuits and desires. 
Is it wrong to prioritize these 
cavalier aspects of our lives? 
No one can actively care about global politics, like, 24/7, right? 
If you can, more power to 
you. 
You shall change the world. Hopefully I know you already 
and can ride the wave of your 
success to greatness.
Another thing to think about: 
Something can start off being 
viewed by general populace as 
useless and end up 
growing into being a 
vehicle of change and expression. 
Facebook is some-
thing that I use to mindlessly procras-tinate, but it’s also a tool charities and businesses use to 
make a difference. 
Mark Zuckerberg wants to 
get everyone in the world on-
line. 
That’s pretty epic.Artists like Nicki Minaj and 
even Miley Cyrus test limits and ideals of beauty, fashion and so-cietal norms, even if they might 
take these limits a bit far for 
some. 
Every social, political or eco-
nomic movement has a moment 
of inception that is more often 
than not chaotic, tragic, offen-sive or downright weird.
Do the VMAs matter? That’s not really the question 
we should ask. 
Perhaps the question should 
be reframed as: What do the VMAs start? 
What will the VMAs change? What do the VMAs, in all 
their glory, say about us — that raving crowd of millennials that gasped when Kanye West an-
nounced he’d run for president. 
#Kanye2020? Is this really a thing?
I am no expert. 
I could be entirely wrong 
about the impact (or lack there-
of) that award shows have. Perhaps the VMAs are nothing more than an excuse for pop-
stars to lob insults which may 
or may not have been staged. 
I know, the intrigue there is 
just making me giddy, we watch 
celebrities declare their candida-
cies and try out new hairstyles — I see you, Bieber.
Either way, I will steadfastly 
continue to enjoy the entertain-
ment of the VMAs and the ac-
companying commentary. Life is in the little things, shallow as they might be.
Sally Greider is a UF English 
and public relations junior. Her column appears on Wednes-days.The MTV Video Music 
Awards: Do they even 
really matter?Column
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgAccess Party calls on students to join party 
in Fall 2015 Student Government elections
“W e've delivered on making 
campus an open place for 
every student regardless of 
background by  allowing 
students from every area of 
campus to get involved in 
SG.”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
Hungry, Healthy, Happy
Photos by Danielle Veenstra
ABOVE:
Vaibhar Gupta (right), 24, a UF 
masters student, jumps 105 times in 45 seconds while UF Recre-ational Sports employee Jenn Richard, 23, keeps his time while he competes in UF Recreational Sports’ jump rope challenge dur-ing the Field and Fork Food Pan-try ribbon cutting ceremony. 
RIGHT:
Patrick Lynch, a 19-year-old biol-ogy sophomore and president of the Gator Gardening Club, talks to students and faculty Tuesday about the services the UF com-munity farm will provide to the Field and Fork Food Pantry. He handed out free genovese basil and purple bok choi plants during the event.
FAR RIGHT:
Susan Webster, a 21-year-old Chinese and business double ma-jor senior, whips around to point at the Field and Fork Food Pan-try, which started out as her idea. The UF Student Senator said she cried when she saw the official sign for the first time. “If I had to leave UF today, I would be satis-fied, ” Webster said.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Student pantry employee Logan Ham (third from left), UF Presi-dent Kent Fuchs and UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, cut the ribbon in front of the Field and Fork Food Pantry to commemorate the opening of the food pantry, located next to Mc-Carty Hall, on Tuesday. The pan-try has already provided food to 140 students and faculty.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
THE CORE CLASSES WILL BE THE 
SAME FOR ONLINE STUDENTS.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF Online students will have another ma-
jor to choose from come Fall 2016.
The College of Journalism and Commu-
nications is expanding its reach across the 
country by adding the public relations degree to UF Online, said UF public relations chair Juan-Carlos Molleda.
The core classes of the major will be the 
same as those for on-campus students, but new electives will be offered only to online students, Molleda said. The techniques used 
to teach the classes and assignments given 
will not change.
“The idea is that we take the most advan-
tage of the technology and the most advan-tage of the experience UF Online already has and try to make this very attractive and at the same time very rigorous,” he said.
Jennifer Smith, the director of develop-
ment and course production for UF Online, 
said that the decision to add public relations to 
the program was based on predicted growth of the industry.
“Public relations is really involved with al-most everything you can think of,” she said.
Smith said she doesn’t know how many 
students are going to sign up for the degree, but she hopes to have a number that reﬂ  ects the amount of on-campus majors. Required classes, such as reporting and multimedia 
writing, will be included on UF Online. Even 
though these classes are physical journalism chair Ted Spiker, said those students should be able to do just as well online.  
“I’m pretty conﬁ  dent that we can do al-
most anything in that online format that we’re doing live,” Spiker said.
Lectures and timed assignments can be put 
online, and students can do outside reporting 
from their location, he said.
“Obviously there are a lot of people who 
think that you’re going to lose some elements 
in losing the live part, and I think that is true for some cases,” he said. “But the goal and the hope is that you’re still going to provide a high-quality educational experience.”  
UF psychology and public relations senior 
Torri Macarages said the public relations de-
gree is something that should be done in per-
son.
“PR is all about interacting with people 
and building relationships,” the 21-year-old said. “I just don’t see how you can succeed in a public relations course if you’re sitting behind a computer screen and you have that wall up.” Public Relations major will 
be added to UF Online RESEARCH
By Emily Mavrakis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Paulina Magaña eats avocados three 
times a week.
“It’s all around my favorite fruit,” said 
the 19-year-old public relations sopho-
more, citing the fruit’s versatility and abil-
ity to ﬁ  ll her up.
But Florida avocado trees are dying be-
cause of a fungus carried by the redbay 
ambrosia beetle, said Jonathan Crane, a UF 
horticulture professor who specializes in 
tropical fruit crops.
So far about 9,000 of the 700,000 avo-
cado trees growing in Florida have been destroyed by laurel wilt, a fungus carried by the beetle, he said.
“It doesn’t sound like much, but 9,000 
trees is a lot of trees,” Crane said. “For each tree that you lose, you’re losing somewhere between 100 and 250 pounds of fruit.”
Crane said he believes that if problems 
with the fungus persist, growers and con-sumers will notice the impact and there could be fewer trees.  
The fungus causes the trees to wilt and 
leaves to turn brown, Crane said. If infect-ed with the fungus, the tree will die in two to eight weeks.
The beetle carrying the fungus is an in-
vasive species from Asia.  It ﬁ  rst arrived in 
a Georgia shipping port. Over the next sev-
eral years, the beetle was found in North-ern Florida, where it made its way south, Crane said.  
But farmers can take preventative mea-
sures to make sure their trees aren’t af-fected, he said.  For example, they can ﬂ  y over their groves in helicopters while look-ing through special cameras that will show 
where the fungus is.
The beetle’s spread is limited to the 
Eastern U.S., Crane said.
While this could affect trees in Florida, 
most U.S. avocados come from Califor-
nia, said Gordon Bryant, a produce mer-chandiser at Earth Fare grocery store in Gainesville.
He said he doesn’t think the fungus be-
ing in Florida would have a signiﬁ  cant ef-fect on availability and price.  However, it could affect farmers.
“Any sort of major loss would hurt 
farmers,” Bryant said.
Magaña said she’d be sad if avocados 
were more expensive because there are less of them.
“I’m a typical college student,” she said.  
“And I don’t have money to blow.”Fungus threatens avocados
and president of Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, a partner of UF’s Field and Fork Pantry.
“It took ﬁ  ve years to make this 
happen,” Conwell said. “That’s why 
we’re very proud to be part of this 
day.”
She told the story of her daughter, a UF alumna, who used to carry food from Bread of the Mighty to campus to help feed hungry students.
Charlie Lane, UF senior vice 
president and chief operation ofﬁ  cer, said the pantry will expand from 900 square feet to 1,000 square feet, a project that is now in the works.
The original $172,000 building 
stores toiletries and canned goods, like toothpaste and beans. In an ef-fort to integrate sustainable prac-tices, Lane said the expanded pantry will have fresh foods and will cost $290,000.
“I think it’s money very well 
spent,” he said.
The pantry also recently received 
an indirect $25,000 donation from 
the controversial GMO-seed com-
pany Monsanto.
The donation was originally awarded to UF horticulture profes-sor Kevin Folta for his self-sufﬁ  cient outreach program, Talking Biotech. With this program, he teaches scien-tists how to talk to the public, pro-moting science literacy.
Folta said he spent between 
$9,000 and $11,000 of the donation 
on his workshops to cover travel ex-
penses, conference food, room rent-als and sometimes hotel stays.Anti-GMO activists didn’t ap-
prove of his acceptance of the dona-tion, Folta said.
“I received all kinds of threats,” 
he said. Folta had the option of transferring the money to a scholar-ship or research, but he chose the food pantry.  
“It’s a noble cause,” he said. “I 
support it 100 percent.” 
    
PANTRY,  from pg1The food pantry received a $25,000 donation from a UF professor“It doesn’t sound like much, but 9,000 
trees is a lot of trees. For each tree 
that you lose, you’re losing somewhere 
between 100 and 250 pounds of fruit.”
Jonathan Crane
UF horticulture professorBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious atmosphere. $475/mo includes high speed internet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 325-631-0737    9-3-15-7-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
ATTENTION: VET STUDENTS, NURSING, 
MED STUDENTS. Close to campus, 3BR/2.5BA, new up-grade, 2-car garage + storage shed. $1300/mo. 1259 SW 21st Ave.  352-378-1221 / 352-871-4252    9-9-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-9-15-73 -10 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
BACKPACKSNorth Face, Osprey, & Jansport on Sale!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13 St /1 mile North of UF on 13th St352.372.37836    9-2-5-10
YETIRambler Cups In Stock. Keep it as cold as possible!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13th St / 1 mile North of UF352.372.7836                    9-2-5-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished1For Rent
furnishedWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",
125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.ACROSS
1 Flier among
hangers
5 Hurt
9 Exams for future
attys.
14 Alpine feedback15 Something to
chew on
16 Open courtyards17 Some Broadway
theater handouts
19 Green shampoo20 Raised on one’s
own ranch, as ahorse
21 Pilot-licensing
org.
22 Like many senior
part-timers
27 Hemingway
nickname
31 Yours, in
Toulouse
32 Stadium level33 __ husky36 PC exit key38 Tournament
advantage
39 With 40-Across,
toy with a crank
... and what each
set of four circledpuzzle squaresgraphicallyrepresents
40 See 39-Across42 D-backs, on
scoreboards
43 “Little Red Book”
author
45 It’s not pretty to
look at
46 Certain bond,
briefly
48 Tae __ do50 “The __ lama,
he’s a priest ... ”:Nash
51 Sherry in a Poe
title
55 When doubled, a
number puzzle
56 “Beatles ’65”
song
61 Common news
hr.
64 Intensely active
state
65 Greek storyteller66 Reject suddenly67 Field68 Land maps69 Ornamental
band
70 Socially awkward
typeDOWN
1 Interlock2 Nueve menos
uno
3 McAn of footwear4 NHL great
Gordie
5 In flames
6 Camping gear
company with a
lantern in its logo
7 “Wait a minute!”
8 People working
for People, briefly
9 Wash gently
against
10 Narrow waterway
11 “__ you coming?”12 Up to, casually13 Mineo of “Exodus”18 Air rifle ammo21 Full of gumption23 Caviar, e.g.24 Award often blue
25 Pooh pal
26 Philadelphia
university
27 __ party28 Shakespearean
call to arms
29 “Scarface” (1983)
star
30 “Try me”34 “Bette Davis
Eyes” singerCarnes35 Luke and Leia’s
father
37 Friend of Fidel
41 Spanish “that”44 Woodland
mouser
45 Glossy coats47 Place to dip a
quill
49 Piglet of
children’s books
52 Holiday hires53 35-Down, as a
Sith lord54 Rusted, 
perhaps
57 Setting of
Camus’ “ThePlague”
58 Many a retired
racehorse
59 At any time60 Spent time with
Time
61 Gentle touch62 Oft-smoked fish63 DOD intel arm64 Drinks at IHOP
By Ed Sessa©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/02/1509/02/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 2, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of Wilma and Fred’s daughter on 
“The Flintstones”?
2. ROYALS: Which English king 
founded the House of Tudor? 
3. GEOGRAPHY: Lapland is a 
region of what country?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the name of the Communist Party newspaper of Cuba? 
5. ART: What French sculptor 
unveiled a bronze work in 1904 called 
“Le Penseur”?
6. MYTHOLOGY: Which Greek 
Muse presides over love poetry?
7. HISTORY: In what war were tanks 
first used?
8. MOVIES: Who were the two male 
stars in the film “The Philadelphia 
Story”?
9. MEASUREMENTS: What is 
1/100th of a second called?
10. ASTROLOGY: What is the 11th 
sign of the zodiac?
Answers
1. Pebbles
2. Henry VII 3. Finland
4. Granma 
5. Rodin, “The Thinker”6. Erato7. World War I8. James Stewart and Cary Grant9. A “jiffy”10. Aquarius
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 31, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales Assistant
Need ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
A large reptile farm in Newberry is seeking enthusiastic new team members. The pri-mary hours of operation are Monday-Friday 9am to 5pm. Weekend hours may also be available. Starting salary of $9.00 per hour with a pay increase to $12.00 per hour and a benefits package after a 90 day probationary period. We welcome students and offer flex-ible scheduling!
This position involves caring for various rep-
tile species, and may include tasks such as feeding, watering, cleaning cages, breeding, and recording data. Being comfortable work-ing around insects, reptiles, and rodents is important for this position.
This is a hands on position. Candidates can-
not be afraid of handling reptiles and possi-bly being bitten. Don't worry; we do not have any venomous species at our facility!
If you are a motivated hard worker with re-
liable transportation and are interested in working with animals, please contact us!
The Gourmet Rodent
352-472-9189       9-2-15-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Sun Country Sports is now hiring for
recreational & team gymnastics coaches,
front desk, & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
9-3-15-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred.Email resume to:    drpohani@gmail.com     9-4-15-5-14
College Student needed part-time for busy law firm in Gainesville to answer phones. Must be familiar with Google Calendar. Send resume to touchtonassistant@gmail.com and include phone number for contact.    9-3-4-14Consign-a-Rama
Gainesville's newest college and juniors 
consignment sale! Positions available, visit 
www.consign-a-rama.com for info
9-4-15-5-14
P/T ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Holy Trinity Church. Strong oral/written commu-nications skills including editing required as well as working knowledge & experience with MS Office Suite and social media. Must have positive attitude & be a team player. Direct inquiries to rhpowell43@gmail.com.   9-4-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
EDITING PAPERS AND DISSERTATIONS--ADJUNCT PROFESSOR AND NATIONAL AUTHOR whyland99@yahoo.com; http://whyland99.wix.com/jefferson    9-4-15-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Revolutionary new natural coldsore treat-ment completely dries outbreaks within 1-3 days. Instant relief. Buy 1-get-1 Free: Coupon xU83F1G Expires 09/07www.herpacor.com/xu83f1g    9-4-15-4-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Attention Runners:2 New Races on Oct. 11th!Alachua Lake Half Marathon & 5K Prediction Run on the Hawthorne Trail.Sign up at www.lloydclarkesports.com    9-2-5-20
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
20 Event Notices 24 Pets 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida volleyball has a tough 
early season schedule, with the ﬁ  rst seven games on the road. Coach Mary Wise said it was designed to test the Gators. Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports and online at www.alligator.org/sports for updates on UF athletics. Bill Carr to be ﬁ  rst "Mr. Two Bits" of 2015
Former Florida center Bill Carr, a ﬁ  rst-team All-American in 1966, will serve  
as the honorary "Mr. Two Bits" for Saturday's season opener against New Mexico State. At 33 years old, Carr became UF's athletics director, making him the youngest NCAA Division I athletic director in the country.By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
With only three days remaining 
until the start of the season on Sat-
urday against New Mexico State, 
Florida coach Jim McElwain is preaching to his team to be more consistent this week leading up to 
their matchup against the Aggies.  
During Fall camp, McElwain 
observed on more than one occa-
sion that the team was struggling with consistency in multiple as-
pects. 
At the top of his priority list 
this week is for UF to be more 
dependable with the game plan 
being implemented as UF ﬁ  nally 
faces a team wearing a different jersey.
“We loaded a lot of stuff in the 
wagon, both offensively and de-fensively and special teams trying to make sure our checklists are 
ﬁ  lled based on the unknown go-
ing forward,” McElwain said on Monday.
The unknown McElwain 
speaks about is facing a defensive 
coordinator that the offense hasn’t 
seen day in and day out. 
During camp, quarterbacks 
Will Grier and Treon Harris had 
their moments moving the ﬁ  rst-
team offense well enough against a defense that they faced each day in practice.
But Florida’s ﬁ  rst-year coach 
acknowledges that even though 
the quarterbacks had success in practice, there’s a long way to go before the offense reaches its po-
tential and facing an opposing de-fense is a different animal.   
“It hasn’t been consistent to the point that we were hoping,” 
McElwain said. 
“And yet, what I think you’ll 
Gators searching for consistencyINSTAGRAHAM
Manchester United dem-
onstrated Monday how inept the club’s leadership can be, adding to the belief 
that United has sig-niﬁ  cantly descended down the internation-al soccer rankings.
Considered one 
of the world’s best 
goalkeepers, David de Gea seemed set for a last-minute trans-
fer to Spanish power 
Real Madrid ahead of Monday’s midnight deadline. 
The deal was contingent upon 
Real Madrid sending promising 
goalie Keylor Navas and �20 mil-
lion to Manchester United in ex-change for de Gea.
But as the La Liga transfer 
deadline neared, Real Madrid had yet to receive the paperwork from Manchester United.
At ﬁ  rst, news came out claim-
ing United submitted the papers at 12:01 a.m. Madrid time, a minute past the deadline.
However, United struck back 
claiming they had documenta-tion proving the papers were submitted to Real in time. 
The debacle was conﬁ  rmed 
when La Liga ofﬁ  cials asserted they received no transfer docu-ments until 28 minutes past the deadline.
The deal was dead: Real Ma-
drid didn’t appeal for an exten-sion and de Gea is staying in Manchester, albeit an extremely unhappy goalie.
Throughout de Gea’s gradual 
rise to the pinnacle of his profes-
sion, the Spaniard has quietly yet 
publicly expressed interest in re-
turning to the city of his youth, Madrid, having 
grown up in cross-town 
rival Atletico Madrid’s developmental system.
Real, however, have 
monitored and courted 
de Gea for years, hoping 
to replace aging main-stay Iker Casillas with the rising star.
But despite the prying of Real 
Madrid, de Gea seemed set to remain in Manchester for a ﬁ  nal season before Monday’s shenani-gans.
According to Real, it wasn’t 
until Monday morning that Unit-ed ﬁ  nally engaged in discussions with the club over transferring 
de Gea, despite months of banter 
in the press between the clubs.
United wouldn’t cash in on 
their most promising player  even though he repeatedly ex-
pressed his intention to leave as 
soon as his contract was up.
This stupid, ego-driven deci-
sion by Manchester United is 
why the club has yet to reach 
heights similar to the constant success achieved under the lead-ership of former manager Sir Alex Ferguson.
United still believe they’re 
on top of the soccer world, even though the club fails to attract Manchester United proving 
to be terrible at rebuilding
UF AVERAGED 6.7 YARDS PER 
PASS ATTEMPT LAST SEASON. 
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
For Florida fans sick of watching bubble 
screens and passes that fail to leave the 
backﬁ  eld, take solace in knowing coach Jim McElwain understands your pain and that he plans to take shots down the ﬁ  eld.
“As hungry as they are, I guarantee you 
that I’m twice as hungry to see and get after it,” McElwain said about fans’ desire for of-fensive improvement. 
“Yet, we still have to ﬁ  nd out what (the 
offense is) capable of. For us, we want to 
discover some explosive playmakers and 
really stretch the ﬁ  eld. One of the things we’ve stressed is trying to put the ball down the ﬁ  eld vertically and not worry as much horizontally.”
That would be a signiﬁ  cant change of 
approach from the past few seasons, when the offense rarely challenged opposing sec-ondaries on deep passes and instead opted for quick, short routes to the sidelines along with plenty of check-downs.
In 2014, the Gators averaged 6.7 yards 
per pass attempt, ﬁ  nishing tied for 81st na-
tionally. The 2013 season was no better, 
with Florida tying for 91st in 
the country with 6.6 yards per attempt.
Even in 2012, when the 
team went 11-2 and made an 
appearance in the Sugar Bowl, the number still sat at 6.6 yards per attempt, good for just 92nd nationally.
The last time the Gators ranked in the top 45 in that area was in 2009, when they were led by Tim Tebow and coached by Ur-ban Meyer.
For a program known for its high-pow-
ered offenses, numbers like that don’t sit well with fans or players. 
But McElwain’s stated philosophy is 
bringing back some optimism.
“I’m excited,” redshirt senior offensive 
lineman Trip Thurman said. 
“We’ve never really had, you guys know, 
an offensive coordinator that stayed here. With McElwain being an offensive guy, I Florida oﬀ  ense working to revitalize deep passing gameJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris drops back to pass during practice on 
Monday at the Sanders Practice Field. 
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
“(The ofense) hasn't been 
consistent to the point that 
we were hoping.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coachSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
FOOTBALL
SEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
A new season is underway, and that means 
another opportunity for players to make their 
mark. Here are five UF players who have the potential to have a breakout season.
Jake McGee, TE
After his first season at UF ended before 
it could really begin in 2014, McGee is back with a sixth-year of eligibility and an oppor-tunity to give Florida a viable pass-catching option.
At 6-foot-6 and 249 pounds, the Virginia 
transfer has the size to help block defensive linemen and fight against linebackers for passes in the middle of the field.
He hasn’t caught a pass in almost two 
years now.
But come Saturday, McGee’s ready to 
prove he still has what it takes.
Brandon Powell, WR/RB
Powell failed to make an impact as a fresh-
man.
The 5-foot-9 speedster tallied just 31 
touches and 217 yards as a running back in his inaugural season with the Gators.
But the Deerfield Beach native has im-
pressed coach Jim McElwain over the last six months.
He is listed as the starting slot receiver for 
Saturday’s season opener against New Mexi-co State and has taken first-team reps during most of training camp.
With his speed and crisp route-running, 
Powell can help breathe life into a stagnant wide receiver corps.
Alex Anzalone, LB
After two lackluster years to start his UF 
career, Anzalone handled the majority of first-team reps at middle linebacker during Spring and Fall camp while senior Antonio Morrison 
recovered from a knee injury he suffered in 
the first half of UF’s Birmingham Bowl win on Jan. 3. 
While Morrison is back and projects to 
start at middle linebacker, Anzalone will still have his chance to shine.“To be honest, Alex Anzalone is the quar-
terback of the defense now,” Morrison said. 
“He’s really taken that role over. I echo his 
calls.”
Johnny Townsend, P
Special teams needs some love, too. While Townsend hasn’t seen action since 
his freshman year, he has shown potential during his limited time on the field.
In six games as a freshman, Townsend av-
eraged 42 yards per punt, pinned six inside the 20-yard line and booted a 61-yard kick in his first career game.
In April’s Orange & Blue Spring game, the 
Orlando native rattled off six punts — four of which landed inside the 20-yard line — and averaged 43.5 yards per punt.
McElwain praised Townsend’s work 
throughout preseason camp, and if he keeps 
pace with what he has done over the past six 
months, he’ll have the potential for a strong year.
Taven Bryan, DL
Bryan took a redshirt his first year on cam-
pus to learn the playbook and bulk up.
And while he probably won’t start this 
season, the “Wyoming Wild Man” will be a force in Florida’s defensive line rotation this 
season.
Players and coaches have praised Bryan’s 
high football IQ and he has the size and agility 
to be a force against offensive linemen.
Bryan is still raw and has some room to 
grow, but he’ll have opportunities this season.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF middle blocker Simone Antwi tips a ball over the net during Florida’s 
3-0 win against Ole Miss on Sept. 28 in the O’Connell Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Brandon Powell runs a route during practice on Monday at the Sanders Practice Field. 
FOOTBALL
Five Florida players poised for a breakout season in 2015
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
The Gators kicked off their 
2015 campaign on the right foot, 
but will now have their hands 
full this weekend.
Florida stormed into Har-
risonburg, Virginia, to sweep 
James Madison University 3-0 
and rolled into the heart of Washington, D.C., to take down American University 3-1 last weekend.
Now 2-0 on the young sea-
son, No. 4 UF will face its big-gest challenge so far when they square off against No. 11 Oregon 
and No. 3 Texas in Austin, Tex-
as, for the 2015 VERT Challenge.
Although it seems like the 
Gators are taking a monumen-tal leap in competition from last 
weekend to this coming one, 
that isn’t exactly the case.
JMU, who began the season 
3-0, went 17-14 in 2014, its best 
record since the team finished 
18-13 in 2011. 
Though their program is 
no volleyball powerhouse, the Dukes are an up-and-coming 
team who has steadily improved 
throughout the last few years.
AU offers a different narra-
tive, as the Eagles went 26-7 
last season and won the Patriot League Conference champion-
ship. 
Florida was also challenged 
with playing in a packed house in front of a D.C. volleyball re-cord crowd of 2,629 fans — no easy task for just its second 
game of the year.
But that’s exactly what head 
coach Mary Wise wanted.
Wise tried to stack the odds 
against the Gators early in the 
season to see how they would respond.
“It’s what we try to do ev-
ery year in the preseason is to 
schedule as tough of opponents 
as we could to help our team learn,” she said. 
“Because we understand that 
the only way you really learn about your team is by playing against the very best.”
One big challenge for Wise’s 
team is the amount of road 
games they play to start the sea-
son. 
UF’s first seven games are 
all on the road, as they head to 
Texas for two matches and fly 
straight to Honolulu, Hawaii, for another three.
It’s also the first time Florida 
has opened its season on the 
road since 2010.
Part of the reason so many 
early road games were sched-
uled was because the O’Connell Center was expected to be un-
dergoing renovations. 
But those plans were eventu-
ally delayed in February, after 
the schedule had been finalized.
“Because we thought we were 
gonna be playing away from the O’Connell Center, we’re on the road more than normally,” Wise said. 
“That in itself will be a chal-
lenge, but I think with the vet-erans we have we’re embracing those challenges.”
One veteran already embrac-
ing the challenge is senior mid-dle blocker Simone Antwi.
Antwi said the road games 
and tough opponents will help 
the players figure out what kind 
of team they are, and what they need to improve upon.
“They’re more like learning 
experiences,” she said. 
“Rankings are kind of just 
rankings, but the work we put in the gym and everything that happens in the season and post-
season kind of help us learn who 
we are and what we need to do.”
Junior right-side hitter Alex 
Holston said she hopes these 
difficult matches will lead to an-
other Southeastern Conference championship this year.
“Hopefully we can do the 
same thing,” she said. 
“The preseason matches will 
really help since we’re playing such great competition.”UF volleyball improving on road
Early schedule is toughfind out over time when you ask people in 
the past, we always strive to make that con-sistency in everyday action. Not sure we’ve 
gotten there yet.”
One of the reasons the offense hasn’t 
lived up to McElwain’s expectations is the 
inability of the wide receivers to make even 
the simplest of catches.  
It’s something McElwain has harped on 
after each practice, as the Gators have had 
their share of problems with dropped passes the past few years, and he’s seen first-hand 
how much of an issue it is with some of the wideouts — including Ahmad Fulwood. 
The Jacksonville native has had flashes 
in practice according to McElwain, but he 
still needs to develop and utilize his skillset.
“He’s shown glimpses of it. We’ve talk-
ed about it before. I’d like to see that he plays 6-foot-3 rather than 5-foot-8 at times,” 
McElwain said of Fulwood. 
“Go up and get the ball. Be aggressive in 
the air. Don’t take no for an answer.”
On special teams, McElwain has touched 
on everything from the timing of the long 
snappers to how well the punting and kick-ing units perform. Redshirt junior kicker Austin Hardin has had an up and down ca-reer at Florida.
In 2013, the Atlanta native was only 4-12 
in field goal attempts. 
But he bounced back last season and 
went 7-10 as he took over the field goal du-ties from Frankie Velez during the second half of last year.
Hardin said that the belief the coaching 
staff has in him has helped him take his game to another level.
“(I’m) continuing to build on consisten-
cy and confidence,” Hardin said. 
“I think I’m, technique wise, more 
sound. I believe the coaches believe in me and that has really helped me out a lot. I’ve proven to them that I can go out there and do the job and compete at a high level.”
Now, just a few days before he gets to 
see his team take on an opponent for the first time as the coach of Florida, McElwain wants to see the Gators become dependable in all aspects. 
He knows the team is not yet ready for 
everything the Aggies and all the rest of their opponents will throw at them.    
“You’ve gotta be sound in what you’re 
doing," McElwain said. "It’s being able to develop a consistency and really have answers moving forward as to what they (New Mexico State) throw at you.”
UF's offense more of a 
priority under McElwainyoung talent or find success with 
the rotating door of proven yet ag-ing stars.
Much of the blame can be 
placed at the feet of Joel and Avram Glazer, the club’s owners and co-chairmen who took over 
the team following the death of 
their father Malcolm. 
Joel and Avram need to stop 
living in the past and develop a plan to rebuild the squad.
The Glazers' pride hurt them: 
rather than professionally discuss a de Gea and Navas swap, Man-chester United has released state-
ment after statement claiming de 
Gea wouldn’t be sold unless a player of equally promising cali-ber was returned or an egregiously 
steep transfer fee was forked over.
Yet Madrid’s insistence that de 
Gea be made available coupled 
with the goalkeeper’s preference to leave proved otherwise. Real is one of a handful of clubs who have watched and laughed behind 
closed doors as United failed to 
sign top-flight players. Why would they expect de Gea to stay? In re-cent years, Real has secured mul-
tiple coveted playmakers — Ga-
reth Bale, Angel Di Maria and Toni Kroos come to mind.
Meanwhile, United brought in 
the talented yet raw Memphis De-pay from PSV — a solid addition but still an unproven commodity.
The addition of Depay was a 
step in the right direction, but 
United shot their rebuilding ef-
fort in the foot by failing to secure Chilean goalkeeper Keylor Navas in the proposed transfer with Real.
Navas is a rising star, having 
displayed poise in the net as starter in the 2014 World Cup, and would likely have become United’s start-ing goalkeeper for the next decade.
Of course all of this is specula-
tion, but the principle remains the same. If United plans to rebuild, they need to act like it. 
Gain some humility and per-
spective — the club doesn’t appear to be a contender in the Premier League this season — and rebuild through youth. Otherwise, Unit-
ed will sink to the depths of the 
league in a blaze of glory similar to the recent decline of the other team owned by the Glazer family: 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
think that’s really key to getting 
Florida’s offense back on track the way they’ve been in the past.”
Getting back to that point is 
no easy task, and the offense isn’t likely to get anywhere close to the levels that Florida’s offenses were operating at under Meyer in McEl-wain’s first season. 
It won't happen overnight, but 
McElwain has prioritized reviving UF's offense. 
He's taken a hands-on ap-
proach, along with offensive coor-dinator Doug Nussmeier, in work-ing with quarterbacks Will Grier and Treon Harris to improve their mechanics and football acumen. 
Evidenced by his time at Ala-
bama, McElwain understands sol-id quarterback play is essential for teams with national championship 
hopes.  
Thurman, who has been at 
Florida since the beginning of for-
mer coach Will Muschamp’s ten-ure, says he has noticed a differ-ence in the amount of emphasis put on his side of the ball.
“Obviously Muschamp being a 
defensive coach, I’m not going to say he didn’t worry about the of-fense too much but it was kind of put second to his defense,” Thur-
man said. 
“The way coach Mac has done 
it is kind of implemented both 
groups. In being offensive (mind-ed), he likes to have his guys go-ing full speed 100 percent of the time. I just think there’s a more heightened level of the offensive side of the ball than in the past.”
SIDEBAR,  from pg 13COLUMN,  from pg 13
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13UF wants receivers to utilize their size when making catchesAP Photo
Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea warms up before an International Champions Cup soc-
cer match against Paris Saint-Germain on July 29 in Chicago. In a surreal ending to Monday's transfer deadline in Spain, de Gea's much-anticipated move to Real Madrid never materialized. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain (center) watches on as quarterbacks Will Grier (7) and Anderson Proctor (17) go through drills during practice on Monday at the Sanders Practice Field. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015
