VOLUME 109 ISSUE 81 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Fuchs delivers second week report
He addressed faculty and community members 
about his goals for UF, pg. 3. Police: man harasses women for oral sex in bathroom
One woman fought him off with an umbrella, pg 5.  
Q-and-A with of Montreal frontman Kevin Barnes
He discussed his new record and what he’s been reading, pg 7. Football coach Jim 
McElwain and his 
staff have their sights 
on key recruits as 
National Signing Day 
approaches. Read the 
story on Page 15.
61/45
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Trafﬁ  c Troubles
Road workers repair a broken water main on Southwest 34th Street near Radio Road on Wednesday afternoon. Built-up water lifted one edge of the asphalt, and trafﬁ  c passing through the area was forced into a single lane.
LOCAL
KATHRYN VARN
Alligator Staff Writer kvarn@alligator.org
Deputies are searching for a 
man who ran away after report-
edly breaking into a southwest Gainesville apartment Wednes-day evening with another man 
whom the apartment resident 
shot dead.Just before 6 p.m., Alachua 
County Sheriff’s deputies re-ceived several calls from resi-dents of the The Grove Villas, located at 6400 SW 20th Ave., reporting gunshots, said sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce spokeswoman Sgt. Becky Butscher. 
Deputies responded to the 
complex where they learned that two masked men, both believed to be armed, broke into Apart-ment 21. At the time, a man and a woman were in the apartment. The male resident shot and killed one of the robbers, identiﬁ  ed as Taylor William Killingsworth, 23. The other stripped his cloth-ing and ran away, Butscher said. 
As of press time, deputies had not yet found the man who ﬂ  ed. Butscher described him as a black 
male with a skinny build who is 
about 6-feet, 2-inches tall. 
The apartment complex is 
gated, but Wednesday evening, the entrance gate stayed open as sheriffs’ cars drove in and out. 
Resident Greg Jones, 26, said 
the gate usually closes after 5:30 p.m., about 20 minutes before the 
robbers showed up at Apartment 21. 
Jones said he has lived at the 
complex for only a month but 
described it as “just a quiet com-munity.”
The investigation is ongoing. 
Anyone with information should call the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce at 352-955-1818.
“Obviously we want to get to 
the second guy,” Butscher said. 
“He’s the missing link.”
One dead, one at large after attempted robbery  
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Truck driver Dale Neubauer rolled his 
semi-trailer trailer around the back of the Flor-
ida Museum of Natural History early Wednes-
day, lugging the bones of a 67-million-year-
old Tyrannosaurus rex named Sue.
After a seven-day road trip, Sue is here to 
stay until September for dinosaur lovers to en-
joy the sight of the almost whole T. rex skel-
eton. 
“The main thing about her is she’s the 
most complete and best preserved T. rex ever found,” said Paul Ramey, the museum’s as-
sistant director for marketing and public rela-
tions.
Neubauer, 65, opened his trailer, where 
wooden crates containing Sue’s parts were 
packed inside.
She was greeted by a forklift and seven 
workers bundled in jackets, ready to unload 
the crates, which each weighed close to a ton. The sound of rolling carts echoed through the Sue the T. rex is 
back in town
 ATTENDANCE HIT A PEAK 
FOLLOWING CAMPUS ASSAULTS.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
After class enrollment doubled follow-
ing multiple attempted rapes reported on 
campus last Fall, registration for the UF 
Rape Aggression Defense program has normalized.
Tina Lamb, program coordinator for 
the free self-defense class, said there was record enrollment after three women were 
attacked on campus at the end of August.
While instructors usually try to cap the 
class at 25 participants, Lamb said they made arrangements to ﬁ  t as many as 40 or 
more. 
Still, classes ﬁ  lled up until November, 
according to Alligator archives.
“It was kind of a difﬁ  cult thing to do, 
given that we had increased police pres-ence on campus,” Lamb said.
Because some of the instructors are 
members of the University Police Depart-
ment or other local police departments, the extra police shifts left some of those 
ofﬁ  cers without time to teach the classes.
Police assignments are relatively back 
to normal, and although Spring RAD Rape defense classes enrollment average again after spike
SEE RAD, PAGE 4SEE DINO, PAGE 4
“You are enough. You can protect 
yourself. You don’t have to rely on 
those other people or other things 
to protect yourself.”
Tina Lamb
RAD program coordinatorVictim reportedly shot one of the robbers  News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 81 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
SUNNY
64/39PARTLY 
CLOUDY
68/39PARTLY 
CLOUDY
70/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
61/37RAIN
61/45
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarInterested in exploring state-
of-the-art fitness equipment such as TRX®, Power Plate® and Kinesis® and formats such as Mat Pilates, Inversion 
Yoga and Yin Yoga? UF 
RecSports is holding a free open house event to pro-mote small group training. Register on RSConnect for a free 30-minute demo today from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. More information is available on recsports.ufl.edu.
From Subways to Stages: 
GatorNights Presents Violinist Rhett PriceViolinist and YouTube sensa-tion Rhett Price will perform at GatorNights on Friday at 10 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Today, 
Price has more than 20,000 
followers on YouTube, and his “I Knew You Were Trouble” cover has received more than one million hits. The night will also fea-ture live comedy from Eric Schwartz, an inflatable sticky wall, free food and two show-
ings of the movie “Fury,” 
starring Brad Pitt. The event is free to all UF students with a Gator 1 Card. Students may invite one guest to the event. Check-in begins at the Reitz Union Information Desk on the first floor at 7:30 p.m. For more information about up-
coming GatorNights events, 
visit www.union.ufl.edu.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Facsimiles of Medieval 
Manuscripts on exhibit at Smathers Library GalleryOn view now through March 6 is the Beast in the Book: 
Animals in Jewish, Christian, 
and Islamic Illustrations from the Middle Ages. The exhibit encourages the viewer to re-flect upon the ways in which the illustrators combined high art and imagination along with didactic messages. The Smathers Library Gallery is 
located on the second floor 
of Smathers Library (East) on campus. Hours are Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., unless otherwise specified. Exhibition available online at http://exhibits.uflib.ufl.edu/beasts
Alpha Kappa Psi — Co-Ed 
Business Professional FraternityToday’s rush event: “Get to know a Bro” at 6:30 p.m. in Heavener Hall, Room 150. Does your resume need polish-ing? Do you cringe every time you go through an interview? 
Well then Alpha Kappa Psi co-
ed business professional frater-nity is the organization to get you on the right track. Alpha Kappa Psi is open to all ma-jors. We’re devoted to helping our pledges and brothers suc-ceed professionally through mock interviewing, resume 
development and more, while 
also taking part in community service and social activities. Follow them to stay up to date on Spring 2015 Rush through Facebook at Alpha Kappa Psi at UF. On Twitter @UFAKPsi and  Instagram at uf_akpsi.
Free RecSports Fitness EventGot something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva    photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle @alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
Kent Fuchs admitted he took 
his first selfie at Innovation Acad-
emy’s convocation Jan. 5.
“It was a lot of fun,” he said. 
“I think it’s really important that the president be accessible and visible to students. As some of 
you may have seen, I took a self-
ie. How many of you have taken a selfie?”
Even at 7:45 a.m., UF’s 12th 
president was full of energy, 
cracking jokes on stage in his or-
ange-and-blue striped tie.
His second week on the job, 
Fuchs addressed a crowd of fac-
ulty and community members 
Tuesday morning about his goals for the university in the Century Ballroom at the Hilton UF Con-ference Center at the monthly 
Eye Opener Discovery Breakfast, 
organized by UF Community Re-lations.
“Being present and visible 
to students conveys a tone to students that faculty, indeed in-cluding the president, is a part of their community, that we’re not just sitting in Tigert Hall or some 
other place, and we’re here on 
their behalf,” he said.
That was Innovation Academy 
students’ first impression of him.
“It was a good icebreaker,” 
said Monique Figueroa, an 
18-year-old UF business admin-
istration freshman. “He’s not just a serious man in a suit.”
Fuchs said UF has a well-de-
served national reputation. As its new president, he said he hopes to continue the emerging innova-tion, explaining that it needs cre-
ativity to grow.
During the question-and-an-
swer session, Fuchs said selectiv-
ity should be celebrated — UF 
can’t admit all good high school 
students. He also said he is proud of the 
strive for preeminence and diver-sity.
Fuchs’ calendar is already fill-
ing up. 
He is set to go on a multi-city 
tour and spent two days getting to know Gov. Rick Scott in Tal-lahassee.
“There were many, many 
important areas that are high priority for the university and 
me,” Fuchs said, “but my speech 
would’ve been 51 pages instead of 21 pages if I listed all of them.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Fuchs’ First Selfie
UF President Kent Fuchs takes a selfie in the University Auditorium 
during the Innovation Academy convocation Jan. 5.
ADMINISTRATIONFuchs delivers second-week report 
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Continuing the forward-
looking sentiment of Spring 
Convocation, Santa Fe’s Stu-
dent Senate on Wednesday an-
nounced programs to combat social issues within the college.
Senate announced a new 
mandatory online sexual ha-rassment course and an option-al rape defense program at its second meeting of the year.
The online sexual harass-
ment course will be required for students who enroll after May and intends to tackle sexu-
al discrimination issues that ex-
ist on campus and nationwide.
“Santa Fe is doing its best to 
make sure ... students are wel-
come here no matter what their 
sexual orientation or identity,” said Student Body Vice Presi-dent Austin Browning.
Students already enrolled at 
the college will not be required to take the course, he added.  
As part of Santa Fe’s goal 
of creating a safer campus, the college is also offering a new Rape Aggression Defense course for female students. A 
male version of the program is 
being developed and may be available this year, Browning 
added.
He also addressed senators 
about the importance of reach-
ing out to students experienc-ing suicidal thoughts in light 
of the three Santa Fe students who committed suicide during Fall.
“These people had friends,” 
he said. “They had family, and 
we could have prevented their 
acts of suicide if we only had 
the proper training.”
He added that seminar 
courses on suicide prevention are available to students.
Senators also unanimously 
elected academic senators Shannon Lewis, Christopher Hall and Leane Bonello.
Bonello said her English 
professor recommended her to run as an English representa-tive. 
While Bonello admitted, 
“I really don’t know what I’m doing here,” she said she is ex-cited about being a new senator and hopes to create a literary 
night for students.
Lewis and Hall wanted 
to join Senate after attending 
several Senate meetings. They 
both felt that senators were not 
taking enough initiative to ad-dress issues important to stu-dents.
“It was like watching an 
episode of Degrassi,” Hall said. “I was like, ‘Yo, where is our productiveness?’  So I’m say-ing, ‘You know what? If you’re 
going to complain about it, ei-
ther you just shut up or you do something about it.’”SFC Student Senate
adds 3 senators, new harassment course
“It was like watching 
an episode of Degrassi.”
Chistopher Hall
senator4, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
Ariana Figueroa / Alligator Staff 
Dale Neubauer, 65, supervises workers Wednesday from the Florida Museum of 
Natural History and the Phillips Center for Performing Arts as they unload one of the crates in which Sue the T. rex’s bones are packed. Each crate weighs about a ton.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Susan Gonzalez (center), participates in a RAD exercise in which Capt. Ray Tremblay (right), of the City of Chiefland Police Department, acts as the aggressor.
LOCAL
TYLER MCLENNAN &   VERONICA GARCIA
Alligator Contributing Writers
A solemn candlelight vigil and speaker 
event kicked off UF’s annual Martin Luther 
King Jr. Celebration on Tuesday night.
There will be events through the end of 
January to celebrate Dr. King’s dedication 
to civil rights and social justice. The celebra-
tion includes a day of service, forums and lectures on diversity as well as additional keynote speakers.
On Tuesday night, members of the 
Gainesville community met at the Institute of Black Culture, where they were given candles to carry as they walked across the UF campus to the Reitz Union.
This is the first year of the march, which 
was included to portray key moments in the civil rights struggle. As participants wan-dered through the familiar scenes of cam-pus, they experienced reenactments of icon-ic images and moments from the civil rights movement as well as more recent scenes in-volving Mike Brown and Eric Garner. 
These illustrations were meant to bring 
the community together, said Sara Martin, a member of the UF MLK Celebration plan-ning committee. 
“We felt that it was important with all the 
events that have been happening in the last couple of years to have vigils that can help the current student body understand where we’ve been and where we are going,” add-ed Janine Parker, the president of the Black 
Graduate Student Organization.
Scenes depicting the Greensboro Sit-In, 
the Ku Klux Klan and Trayvon Martin shoot-
ing led to the Reitz, where student-selected speakers were waiting on stage.  
“Martin Luther King’s legacy was one that we can all support,” said Steven Evens, 21, the only student speaker. “We can all get behind his values of compassion, dignity ... These are all values that we can all choose to live by.”
Evens, a UF economics senior, was select-
ed by his peers to give the speech.  
“Dr. King was very unique. I don’t think 
my speech could ever measure to the fa-mous speech ‘I Have a Dream,’ but I made an attempt to at least recognize that the leg-acy that Dr. King has left us remains within all of us — that we are all an extension of that legacy,” he said. 
Debra Walker King, a UF English profes-
sor who also spoke, left the audience with advice.
“We need to live for each other, get in-
volved,” King said. “Don’t allow people to say things and harm you without speaking up.”
MLK celebration to last until end of January, kicks off with vigil
Upcoming events on campus and 
around Gainesville to honor Mar -
tin Luther King Jr.
 Jan. 19 — MLK Day of Service at 8 a.m. 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium; Gainesville an-nual commemorative march at 1 p.m. at the MLK Memorial Garden  Jan. 20 — Religious Involvement Oppor -
tunities Fair from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas Jan. 21 — Keynote Speaker Tessa Thompson will speak at 6:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium Jan. 23 — Council on Diversity Commu -
nity Forum at 10:30 a.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom  Jan. 27 — Mia McKenzie, creator of 
Black Girl Dangerous blog, will speak at 6 
p.m. in Ustler Hall
The course teaches strategies to escape from threatening situations
classes began Jan. 6, Lamb said they 
are still accepting applications.
“Right now, I am not turning wom-
en away from any class,” she said.
Yisel Silva-Alvarado, 23, said she 
and her mom have completed RAD twice.
Silva-Alvarado, a UF linguistics 
senior, said she appreciated Lamb’s emphasis on general well-being dur-ing the course, which takes place at the University Police headquarters.
“She wants to make everyone safe 
while they’re doing it, but at the same time she encourages you while you’re doing it,” Silva-Alvarado said. “Just 
because you’re a woman doesn’t mean 
you can’t do it, and that’s empower-ing.”
The course is divided into four 
classes, with each one lasting three 
hours. 
Despite the long hours, Silva-Al-
varado said she felt accomplished.
“At the end of the night, even 
though you were tired and it was three hours long, you felt good,” she said.
The RAD program is designed spe-
cifically with a woman’s body in mind, 
Lamb said.
It teaches women common-sense 
safety strategies and defense tech-niques that will help them escape from situations in which they are threat-ened.
Orjada Dashi, a UF accounting 
sophomore, said she took the course last Spring when she had a lot of late-night meetings. 
She still remembers what she 
learned.
“I thought it would be a good idea 
to take the course just in case some-thing happened,” Dashi, 19, said.
Most women’s first lessons in self-
defense come from family and usu-ally rely on buying tools such as alarm systems or pepper spray, which Lamb said forces you to rely on someone or 
something else for self defense.
“You are enough,” she said. “You 
can protect yourself. You don’t have 
to rely on those other people or other 
things to protect yourself.”RAD , from page 1The skeleton is made up of 250 bones and is 90 percent complete
metal storage building as the workers hustled 
to unload the first truck. 
There were still two more on the way, 
hauling the rest of the 42-foot-long T. rex.
Sue the T. rex was found 25 years ago in 
South Dakota by paleontologist Sue Hen-drickson, for whom the dinosaur bones are 
named.
Although she is referred to as a female, 
the gender of the dinosaur cannot actually 
be determined because there’s a lack of T. rex remains to compare and study, said Darcie 
MacMahon, the director of exhibits and pub-
lic programs. 
A T. rex skeleton is made up of 250 bones, 
and MacMahon said Sue is remarkable be-
cause she is about 90 percent complete.
“You can ... learn a lot from the anatomies 
in the skeleton and learn about its life,” she 
said.According to the Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History’s website, Sue is missing only a foot, an arm, a few ribs and a vertebrae.
Ramey said this is the second time Sue has 
been displayed at the museum. Her perma-nent home is the Field Museum in Chicago, but she has been traveling around the world since 2000. 
She last visited Gainesville 13 years ago, 
and the museum felt it was time for a reunion. 
Hands-on activities will be available for 
young visitors to sift for fossils in a dig pit, Ramey said.
Admission to the exhibit is free for mu-
seum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card.
Ramey said Sue will be assembled within 
seven to 10 days and will be a great opportu-
nity for the next generation of dinosaur lov-
ers.
“She was extremely popular the first time 
she was here,” he said. “We’re really excited 
to be able to have her here again.” DINO , from page 1CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Architecture and fine arts students can stop scrambling 
to find sketchbooks, drawing paper and paintbrushes.
A new art store, called SoMa Art Media Hub, is open-
ing downtown in February. Owners of SoMa, which 
stands for South Main after the store’s location at 601 S. Main St., are hoping it will be the main art supply store for the Gainesville art community. 
Co-owner Celino Dimitroff said he wants to cater to 
art and architecture students who are lacking a local art store since Central Florida Office Plus closed in June of last year. 
“We’re making a space where people are going to want 
to hang out and come conspire with like-minded folks,” Dimitroff said
Students like Chelsea Rowe used to shop at Central 
Florida Office Plus daily. When the store closed, the 22-year-old drawing senior had to order her art supplies online. 
“Now I just have to drive farther to go to Michaels to 
get anything on short notice, which is annoying,” Rowe said, adding that Michaels doesn’t have the paper she needs. 
Dimitroff immediately saw the closure of Central Flor-
ida Office Plus as an opportunity to bring a community-oriented art store to Gainesville. Dimitroff said when he reached out to Charley McWhorter, who is now co-owner, he responded with a “Hell yes!” 
Located in a warehouse behind the Hippodrome State 
Theatre, the store will embody an inviting atmosphere, Dimitroff said. The cabinets and shelving are made from repurposed wood by Dimitroff himself, and the store has wooden floors and an open ceiling. 
Architecture senior Sara Schwartz, 21, said she’s had 
to buy supplies at Magnum Wood, another supply store almost four miles from campus. 
She welcomes the competition from SoMa Art Media 
Hub, saying it’ll provide more options.“Magnum Wood only has so many things you can 
buy,” Schwartz said. “I will definitely be shopping there (SoMa).”
As of now, Dimitroff said the store is in the process of purchasing supplies for future sales. Toward the end of this summer, Dimitroff plans to allow other artists to showcase their artwork at SoMa.
“If it wasn’t for them, we wouldn’t exist,” he said. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator 
Celino Dimitroff, co-owner of SoMa Art Media Hub, builds a shelving unit out of repurposed wood flooring. Dimitroff said all the shelving will be handmade with mostly salvaged materials in the store he and co-owner Charley Mc-Whorter plan to open in February. “It’s sort of breathing a new life into it,” he said.
METROUpcoming downtown supply store to fill hole in art community
MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writer mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Tuesday after he report-edly asked two women for oral sex in a library bathroom and tried to trap one inside. 
Justin Tyler Harris, 24, stood 
in the doorway of the women’s bathroom at the Alachua County Library District Headquarters branch shortly after 5 p.m. The woman inside saw Harris and shouted, “Excuse me” before Har-ris backed away, according to a re-port. Seconds later, he opened the door again and asked the woman, “Are you married?” 
The woman told Harris she had 
a boyfriend, and he backed out of the bathroom again. A few sec-
onds after that, Harris came in the bathroom for a third time and asked the woman, “Want to give me some head right now?” 
The woman told him no and tried to walk out of the door. Harris then blocked her and said, “Yes … I think you do,” according to a report. 
The woman managed to fight 
off Harris with her umbrella be-fore walking out and telling library staff. 
As the woman was talking with 
employees, Harris walked into the bathroom for the fourth time. 
“Rachel?” he asked outside of the second woman’s stall. “Do you want to give me head?”
“I’m gay,” the woman yelled 
back, according to a report. She also managed to get out of the bathroom and tell library staff. 
Police found and arrested Har-
ris at 6:30 p.m. on charges of kid-napping. As of press time, he re-mained at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $50,000 bond. 
Police: man harasses women for oral sex in library bathroom
Harris
Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Political correctness limits free speech 
The recent events in Paris have shocked nations world-
wide. Last week, 12 Charlie Hebdo cartoonists were killed because they used their right of free expression.
This tragedy speaks to many narratives. A Muslim po-
lice ofﬁ  cer was killed by the radical gunmen. The ofﬁ  cer 
gave his life to protect the newspaper that satirized and 
mocked his religion. 
The cartoonists have become martyrs for the free expres-
sion of opinions and freedom of the press. This strikes a chord with Americans because our right to free expression is guaranteed by the First Amendment.     
The world community united in support of these free-
doms and the slain cartoonists. Just recently, the cover of The New Yorker featured the Eiffel Tower topped with a 
red-tipped pencil. The whole concept that the pen is might-
ier than a sword is a powerful one.
In a similar show of solidarity, students on social media 
have expressed their solidarity by declaring, “Je Suis Char-lie.”
While these cartoonists are heroes and the world com-
munity should rally behind the idea of a free press, we should not kid ourselves: A newspaper like Charlie Hebdo could not survive a single day on an American university 
campus.    
We are right to tout our rights and freedoms in the 
wake of horriﬁ  c events. But what we don’t talk about are 
the things that come with free expression and having a free press: the freedom to offend and the freedom to disagree. A common misconception about freedom is that it creates peace and harmony. On the contrary: freedom gives way to disagreements, contentions and conﬂ  icts. And these dis-agreements, contentions and conﬂ  icts are some of things 
that are being contested on college campuses.  
The American college campus has become so politically 
correct that a publication like “Charlie Hebdo” would im-
mediately be scrutinized and shut down the day it went to print. The creators of the publication would be denounced as hateful, spiteful, bigoted, close-minded, backwards and every other derogatory adjective there is.
The vanilla-satirical publication The Crocodile on cam-pus would not dare to truly of-fend a campus administrator or sketch a cartoon lambasting a religion for fear of the resulting criticism coming from the stu-
dents that supposedly value a 
free press.  
Not too long ago, campuses 
were in the middle of a few controversies. For starters, dur-
ing last year’s Spring graduations, many commencement speakers were disinvited to the ceremonies.
Among the disinvited speakers were Condoleezza Rice, 
disinvited for her roles in the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars; 
Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a former Muslim who now criticizes re-
ligion; and International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde because she allegedly put policies in place that hurt poor countries. If campuses won’t allow these people to speak, do you honestly think they will allow people to sketch, write or even say anything offensive?
Then, of course, was the trigger-warning controversy. 
These warnings, put in place by Oberlin College in particu-lar, are meant to inform students that reading a certain book 
could offend some people. For example, the novel “Things 
Fall Apart” would “trigger readers who have experienced racism, colonialism, religious persecution, violence, sui-cide,” and much more. This politically correct and offense-free policy was approved by the students of Oberlin. Can someone honestly think that Oberlin would support a cam-pus publication featuring a crude rendering of the prophet Muhammad?         
New York Times columnist David Brooks is right to note 
that, “Public reaction to the attack in Paris has revealed that there are a lot of people who are quick to lionize those who offend the views of Islamist terrorists in France but who are a lot less tolerant toward those who offend their own views at home.” 
Until this country, and college students in particular, re-
alize this, “Nous Ne Sommes Pas Charlie.”
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. Program helps 
kick the smoking 
habit 
This may come as a surprise to you: It isn’t easy to 
quit smoking. Breaking the habit consistently ranks among the most difﬁ  cult things to do, among the 
likes of climbing a sheer, 3,000-foot rock face in Yosemite 
or writing a halfway-decent novel. Some people may ﬁ  nd 
quitting easier than others, but it still requires an unbeliev-
able amount of resolve and willpower regardless of who 
you are.
For some things, it’s nice to have a little outside help 
and support.
Which is why it’s so important for organizations like To-
bacco Free Florida to offer programs to help smokers quit. 
The advocacy group overseen by the Florida Depart-
ment of Health is sponsoring weekly Quit Smoking Now 
classes at Grace Marketplace, Gainesville’s main shelter for 
providing services to the homeless. 
Classes started last week and are on Sundays. They are 
structured like a support group, although free nicotine re-placement patches and similar products are available to 
participants. The program lasts six weeks. 
The program is aimed at helping Alachua County’s 
most vulnerable residents quit and hopefully lead to a 
higher quality of life. A similar program is also available to UF students through GatorWell, partially sponsored by Tobacco Free Florida.
The classes are funded by money the state received from 
legal settlements with major tobacco companies in the ‘90s. Tobacco Free Florida provides programs and resources for Floridians who want to quit smoking, as well as for mas-sive ad campaigns and education initiatives. 
So far, the organization seems to have been effective, 
saving an estimated $4.2 billion on health care since it start-ed in 2007. 
Smoking is a personal decision, but once it becomes 
something of a dependency, it is one of the most terrible addictions you can have. Yes, it can — and probably will — wreck your health. But there are a lot of other factors that make the habit awful, including the high cost of cigarettes and the pervasive social stigma against people who smoke. 
Worst of all, though, is that smokers cannot avoid any of 
these negative impacts. The very fact that they are addict-ed makes everything else a second-hand concern. Smokers normally can’t control their addiction.
It’s great that Tobacco Free Florida is starting this pro-
gram for at-risk people in Alachua County. We understand that public sponsorship doesn’t always work out the best way, but helping citizens of our state break such a power-ful addiction is an excellent way to go about it. 
35 TOTAL VOTES35% YES
65% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Have you gotten a ﬂ  u shot?Today’s question: Do you think programs to help 
people stop using tobacco should be free?
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    Events this week: 
Check out the Avenue’s top picks of things to do this week, pg. 10.Contribute to the Avenue: 
If you’re interested in pop culture (movies, music, 
fashion, you name it) then write for the Avenue! Email emichelle@alligator.org for more info. Keep up with the Avenue by following us on Twitter@TheAlligator. ELLEN VILLAFUERTE
Avenue Writer
Each day, Brad Schultz seamlessly 
transitions from a kindergarten teacher 
in Ocala to a local fashion designer in 
Gainesville, and he manages to keep both 
jobs separate.
“I have my days toward my day job, 
and then every other minute I have goes 
toward this (fashion design). Lucky for 
me, it’s what I love, so I enjoy doing it,” he said.
Although Schultz, who has been a 
teacher for eight years, started Brad Schul-
tz Design about four years ago, he said he 
has been sewing forever. He grew up in Williston, working with his grandmother every Halloween to create his costumes.
“I’ve always loved fashion in general 
and clothes, and I love creativity and art, and I grew up painting and draw-ing and was always working with my hands, creating and making something,” Schultz said. “It was 
just part of who I was.”
Despite growing up making 
costumes, Schultz graduated from 
high school and studied elementary edu-
cation at Saint Leo University. It was about 
seven years before he picked up sewing again, but when he did, it turned into more than just a hobby.
The topic of designing clothes came up 
for Schultz again when he was going to a concert with some friends and they joked about wanting matching shirts.
“They were like, ‘Brad, you make all 
kinds of things. You can make us match-ing shirts,’ so it was a big joke,” he said.
It may have been all laughs at the time, but Schultz did pull out his sewing machine. He may have not made those matching shirts after all, but he did fall in love with sewing 
again, learning and studying it as 
much as he could because he con-siders himself a perfectionist.
Schultz said his business “snowballed” 
after he was hired to design costumes for events, including Keith Watson Events for Sebastian Ferrero Foundation’s Noche de Gala, and as a designer and chairman for 
Stop Children’s Cancer.
Schultz specializes in special-occasion 
wear for women, including cocktail dress-
es. Creating the perfect item for his clients is so important to him, he creates custom 
patterns for each client so each dress is 
unique. When it comes to wedding dress-es, he gives himself three months to create them, though it doesn’t always take him that long. He also goes through four sepa-
rate dress fittings for the bride in order to 
ensure the dress fits perfectly.
“You know, everybody is different,” he 
said. “We can all be the same size and have 
the same measurements, but we all have 
our little quirks.”
Although Schultz has kept his teaching 
and design jobs separate, he plans to start teaching a sewing class for kids in Ocala 
within the next couple of months.
While he currently only does custom 
orders, he does maintain an Etsy shop, 
where he sells leftover designs he made 
for photoshoots. 
He said he hopes to eventually show a 
collection and create ready-to-wear items 
he can sell. However, he said, “with every-thing, it’s time, especially with a full-time 
job.”
Keep up with Schultz’s future projects 
at Brad Schultz Design on Facebook.CHLOE FINCH
Avenue Writer
If you’re dying for a taste of 
what’s to come on of Montre-
al’s next album, Aureate Gloom 
(dropping March 3 on Polyvinyl 
Records), here are some hints: It involves Talking-Heads-inspired funk, traces of pain and identity-
searching following frontman 
Kevin Barnes’ separation from his wife in 2013 and a little bit of 1970s New York City.
Of Montreal and guest Nedelle 
Torrisi will appear at High Dive tonight. Barnes answered the Ave-nue’s questions about opening up on the new record, what he’s read-
ing these days and Gainesville 
memories via email this week.
What kind of music did you 
listen to growing up? What are you listening to right now?
Mostly hair metal like Motley 
Cruë and Ratt. Lately I’ve been listening exclusively to mid-90s R&B.
What are you reading lately?I just finished reading Henry 
Miller’s “Sexus,” (and) next I will read Lautreamont’s “Maldoror.”
Are there any emerging artists 
you’d like to collaborate with?
I’d like to work with Cate Le 
Bon.  
What do you remember about playing in Gainesville? How will this show differ from your last appearance on campus a few years ago?
The last show was a lot of fun, (and) it will be hard to beat. I have a memory of being surrounded by palm fronds.
Of Montreal is known for 
its theatrical performance style. What can concertgoers expect to see in the 2015 tour?
A wildly deformed felliniesque 
felliniesqueness.
You told Stereogum in Octo-ber that you went to a writer’s retreat in New York City last summer. Can you tell me a little more about that experience? Did 
it influence the songwriting on 
Aureate Gloom?
It was a very inspiring experi-
ence; I just sort of wandered the streets and tried to absorb the 
freak energy of the city. I think it 
did influence the tone of the album (because) I was also listening to a lot of music that was created in 
NYC in the 60’s/70’s.
This is a highly personal al-
bum — you also told Stereogum 
you made it in the midst of this separation from your wife and the 
chaotic period that followed. Was 
it ever difficult to be so candid about your personal life while you were writing this album?
It’s easy for me to write about 
my personal life. I’d rather write about that (than) create some phony imaginary world. I’m really only interested in writing about 
my reality at the moment.
Tickets are $16 on Ticketweb.
com, the High Dive box office or 
Hear Again Music and Movies! 
Tickets at the door are $18. Doors 
open at 8 p.m., and the show be-gins at 10 p.m. Only those 18 and older will be allowed admission.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Kevin Barnes said it wasn’t difficult to be candid on the new record. Of Montreal will 
perform an intimate show tonight at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.
Indie-pop giant of Montreal talks new record, GNV appearancemusic
Brad Schultz: kindergarten teacher in Ocala, designer in GNV
He designs special-occasion wear for women THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
Gilmore girls
editionALEX HARRIS
Avenue Writer
Whether you’re an original fan or a lazy bones who 
waited until the show hit Netﬂ  ix to binge indulge (rais-
es hand), pop culture’s most iconic mother-daughter duo holds a special place in many people’s hearts. First-timers to the show may be confused by the rapid-ﬁ  re dialogue, the obscure, outdated pop-culture references and the ever-perplexing but indeﬁ  nitely entertaining relationship between Lorelai and Rory. And, oh, the ‘90s fashion.
Alcohol will deﬁ  nitely help that, right? Right. Pour 
yourself a martini (gin, with an olive) or mix up some Founder’s Day punch for full authenticity.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week for “Scandal.”Take a sip of your drink every time…
Lorelai is holding or drinking coffee
Rory is holding or reading a bookThereʼs a new maid at the Gilmore houseLorelai and Rory eat an improbable amount of junk foodParis yells at someoneLuke and Taylor ﬁ  ghtKirk has a new job
Finish your drink if…
Lorelai gets engagedA boy thinks Rory is the most special snowﬂ  ake in the 
world
Emily and Lorelai agree on something or Mrs. Kim and 
Lane agree on something
LAURA GOMEZ 
Avenue Writer
In January 1969, the Beatles gathered for 
their ﬁ  nal public performance from the roof 
of the Apple Corps headquarters in London, leaving a legacy of music and memorabilia one Gainesville resident has collected and shown 
for years.
That extensive Beatles memorabilia collec-
tion was one of many collections at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History’s 36th Collectors Day. The event showcased eclectic items ranging from antique cars, guitars, stamps and even spatu-las.
Saturday afternoon marked Miriam Welly El-
liott’s 31st year showcasing her collection of a wide-
ranging ensemble of Beatles photos, books, jewelry, 
pins, concert tickets, watches, dolls and the list goes on. Her obsession spans decades, starting even before she saw the band perform live at the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville in 1964 when she was 13 years old.
“It is a joy to handle it every year and share it 
with the public,” Elliott said.
She wore a gray Paul McCartney shirt and a sil-
ver chain necklace on which hung a small brown booklet. As she opened the booklet, tiny black-and-white photos of the band members folded out. El-liott said she’s had the piece since she was a teen-ager. To this day, it is her personal favorite.
“I remember between classes in 
school, I could open it up and look at my boys,” she said.
She said she plans to keep bringing 
her collection to the show. The core of it is what she started collecting as a teen-ager, and her initial collection is only a fraction of what she has now.  
“I think it’s amazing what people col-
lect,” said Colby Lowe, one of the event organizers. “A lot of these (collections) must be worth quite a bit.”
Elliott owns all but one of the Beatles trading 
cards, which she had to negotiate in order to ob-tain. The cards are organized neatly in a binder and protected with a plastic cover. The card collection alone holds more than 360 pieces, not including du-plicates.
A number of young children express particular 
interest in her collection. She lets them pick out a card and keep it.
“They walk away with that card in their hand 
like it’s a diamond,” Elliott said. “It reinforces that (the Beatles) are timeless. It’s like looking in the mir-ror to when I was a kid.”Beatles fan has ‘every little thing’local
EMILY CARDINALI
Avenue Writer
Hearts will break at The Bull tonight.
Self Narrate, a local storytelling group, looks 
to help people learn how to express themselves by providing a space and topic to inspire a nar-rative. Tonight’s meetup is at 7 p.m., and the topic is “Heartbreak Hotel,” intended for people to share stories of some sort of heartbreak.
Brandon Telg, one of the founders of the 
group, plans to share his heartbreak tonight, a story about how his grandmother’s death affect-ed him and how he moved forward.
“My grandmother loved Elvis Presley,” Telg 
said. “She had merchandise all over the house. I remember she had a doll of a dog that if you’d squeeze it, it would sing ‘Hound Dog.’”
The goal of Self Narrate is to empower people 
to realize the signiﬁ  cance of their own personal narratives for both themselves and others.
Telg and co-founder Jaron Jones came up 
with the idea in a interpersonal leadership class. In the class, professor Tony Andenoro asked students to share a 20-minute personal narrative describing a moment in time that had a strong impact on them and how they  changed.
“We found it difﬁ  cult to be vulner-
able in front of people and tell stories that we even kept from ourselves,” Jones said. “As we told our stories, we felt mo-tivated and empowered.”
For many students, this was the ﬁ  rst 
time they were asked about their personal nar-rative, and it was hard to come up with signiﬁ  -cant events.
After getting to know each other through 
their narratives and the class, the pair decided to work on the class ﬁ  nal together: an ambigu-ous instruction to create change.
“We knew that for our change, we were go-
ing to give people in the community and sur-rounding area the power to tell their stories as well,” he said.
First, the duo hit focal points on campus with 
a piece of white copy paper inscribed, “Tell me a story, and I’ll give you a dollar.” But even col-lege kids walked past the sign, averting their eyes worrying about some sort of catch or trick.
“They thought they didn’t have any story im-
portant enough to tell,” Jones said. “We knew we couldn’t stop doing this.”After the class ended, their ﬁ  nal proj-
ect was not forgotten. Out of it emerged Self Narrate to give people opportunities to tell as many different personal stories.
“Finding the passion for narrative, 
speciﬁ  cally personal narrative, and help-ing others grow through having other 
people understanding what their narrative is,” Telg said, “radically changed my life.”
He went from a low point in his life to becom-
ing a changed person by having an avenue to ex-press himself and listen to others’ experiences.
“It helped me see that my experiences are 
OK, the things that I’ve been through can be seen as positive. Other people can grow through my experiences.” 
Now, Telg feels more positive, more optimis-
tic and well-adjusted, and he attributes it to sim-ply sharing his own narrative.
For Jones, the communication he was having 
with himself and others helped him ﬁ  nd himself. He quit a stable job working for the government to pursue a Ph.D. After discovering reclaiming his narrative, he knew.
“This is it. This is what I was put onto this 
Earth to do.”
Heartbreak stories tonight at The Bull downtownlocalCHLOE FINCH
Avenue Writer 
You may or may not have heard 
about King Tuff, but you knew 
someone like him once. He was the guy perpetually in and out of rock bands in high school, the guy in the 
faded Black Sabbath T-shirt reading 
a Richard Brautigan novel and the white guy who worshipped Jimi Hendrix. He was the guy you sus-pected might actually make it.
King Tuff — also known as Kyle 
Thomas — will appear with Ex Hex at High Dive on Monday. Thomas answered the Avenue’s questions 
through email this week about his 
upcoming Gainesville show, advice for aspiring rockers and Don DeL-illo. 
How would you describe a 
black moon spell?
A glorious s**t heap of rock. What made you want to write 
a love letter to vinyl? It’s a pretty 
overplayed theme, but you man-
aged to do it a bit differently — “Black Holes in Stereo” isn’t wishy-washy or anything; it’s witty and fun.
Ha, I don’t know. I didn’t really 
think about the other songs people have written about vinyl until peo-ple started bringing it up. I came up 
with the title, and I liked it so I just 
wrote a song to the title. 
How do you think rock ‘n’ roll 
has persisted in a music scene ﬂ  ooded with digital pop?
There will always be an audience 
for rock music, just like there will always be an audience for jazz, clas-sical, blues, etc. Rock had its heyday, 
but it doesn’t mean you can’t still play with the form and discover 
new things.
You’ve said in interviews that 
college wasn’t for you, because you weren’t sure what you wanted to study. If you were to hypothetically go to college now, what would you 
study? Would you even want to?
I would actually love to take 
some classes, but nothing overly an-
alytical. I’d like to learn some trades or even go for painting just to force me to produce more of it. I mostly just don’t learn well in a classroom atmosphere. I need to be working on something hands-on.
What would your advice be to 
kids like you, whether they’re in 
high school or ﬁ  nishing a college 
degree, who aren’t really feeling school and would rather start a band?I think people, young adults es-
pecially, should be free to do what-ever they want and not feel pressure to decide on a career before they’ve experienced life outside their par-ents’ house. The normal age for col-lege freshmen should be 30. By that 
time you should have a better idea 
of what you want to do. So many kids end up wasting thousands of dollars on an education they’re not even interested in. 
How does it feel to perform 
these anti-school anthems to col-lege-town audiences? Is it strange or entertaining?
Well, I wouldn’t say I’m anti-
school at all. I think school is great 
for a lot of people. But it can f**k 
people up, especially musicians or artists, because you are taught the “right” way to do things, and there is no right way to be creative. Usu-ally the most inspiring things are the “mistakes.”
What are you reading lately?I recently read “White Noise” by 
Don DeLillo. It was awesome. He has a great way with language; all of his sentences are sparkling. I’m reading some essays about creative writing by Ray Bradbury now.  
What are you listening to lately?Lots of country-ish type stuff, 
folk songs (and) songs that tell sto-ries. 
What’s your dream musical col-
laboration, living or dead?
Captain Beefheart and Paul Mc-
Cartney. 
Have you ever played in 
Gainesville before? If so, what was your impression of it?
I have played there when I was 
in Hunx. I remember it being a fun 
show but not much else. It all blurs 
together in my mind. But I like Flor-ida because it’s like a different coun-try. And it’s weird as f**k. 
Tickets are $10 in advance and 
$12 at the door. The show starts at 10 p.m. and doors open at 9. Tickets are available from the High Dive box ofﬁ  ce and Hear Again Music and 
Movies for an additional $1 conve-
nience fee. 10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Kyle Thomas, known as his stage persona King Tuff, will appear at High Dive on Mon-
day with Ex Hex.
Glorious heap of rock: Q&A with Kyle Thomas, aka King Tuffmusic
Upcoming Events
 THE GOLDEN GLOBES HIGH-LIGHTED FILM, TV JUGGERNAUTS.
ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
A little glitz, a bit of glam and a whole 
lot of celeb power — the 72nd Annual 
Golden Globe Awards showed off the year’s best ﬁ  lm and television actors, ac-tresses and artists with its usual elegance 
and excitement.
Hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler 
spared no expense (or topic) in their open-
ing monologue. From Bill Cosby jokes and subsequent hilarious impersonations by the two comediennes to the Sony hack by North Korea, the third-time hosts 
charmed the pants off of the A-list crowd 
once again. My favorite part? A random game of Who Would You Rather, with Fey immediately answering, “Chris Pine. Was that too loud?”
Benedict Cumberbatch joined Jennifer 
Aniston — at Fey and Poehler’s request — to present Best Supporting Actor in a Mo-tion Picture. J.K. Simmons took home the statue for “Whiplash.”
The star-studded gags kept com-
ing. Urged by the hosts, Michael Keaton snapped a picture of Meryl Streep and a faux North Korean journalist, a stoic Mar-garet Cho, while Cumberbatch hopped up for a photobomb in the back, prompting the aptly hashtagged #cumberbomb.
The night was full of powerful speech-es, from Best Actress in a TV Series (Musi-cal/Comedy) Gina Rodriguez of “Jane the Virgin” to Best Actor in a TV Series (Dra-ma) Kevin Spacey from “House of Cards.” The former, a ﬁ  rst-time nominee and win-ner, thanked her family for inspiring her and ended her speech by quoting her fa-ther: “My father used to tell me 
to say every morning, ‘Today’s 
gonna be a great day. I can, and I will.’ Well, Dad, today’s a great day. I can, and I did.”
On a more serious note, Theo 
Kingma, the president of the Hollywood Foreign Press As-sociation, took the stage early in the eve-ning to state that the organization and 
community stands “united against any-
one who would repress free speech, any-where from North Korea to Paris,” and Meryl Streep was one of the ﬁ  rst to stand in a room-wide ovation. Various actors including Kathy Bates and Helen Mirren also sported “Je Suis Charlie” accessories on the red carpet.
Continuing with the night’s freedom 
of speech trend, “Je Suis Charlie” became a common mention. George Clooney showed his support as he was honored with the Cecil B. DeMille Award. He also mentioned his wife, Amal Alamuddin — now Amal Clooney — and previous recip-ient Robin Williams during his acceptance speech.
Other notable wins include “Birdman” 
for Best Screenplay and The World’s Handsomest Man, aka Matt Bomer, for Best Supporting Actor in a TV Show, Mini-Series or TV Movie in the gut-wrenching “The Normal Heart.” John Legend and Common won the award for Best Origi-nal Song and accepted the trophy from surprise presenter Prince — and his be-dazzled cane.
The biggest categories of the 
night showcased the big, and ar-guably expected, frontrunners this awards season. For leading actors in the Musical/Comedy category, Amy Adams of “Big Eyes” and Michael Keaton of “Birdman” took home the statues. In the Drama cat-
egory, Julianne Moore of “Still Alice” and Eddie Redmayne of “The Theory of Ev-
erything” earned their respective awards. 
“The Grand Budapest Hotel” took home Best Motion Picture (Musical/Comedy), while “Boyhood” won the award for Best Motion Picture (Drama).
All in all, the Globes can be summed 
up like this: a lot of celebrity speeches (duh) and (disappointingly) little of Tina and Amy. And where was the In Me-
moriam segment? Were they that over 
time?! While this is supposedly the duo’s last year hosting the Globes, we can only dream that their successors will be just as wonderfully hilarious. We’re looking at you, Bill Hader and Kristen Wiig.
Did your picks match up? Tweet your 
thoughts @AlyssaVHolcomb, and stay tuned for the next Trophy Hunting recap 
of the SAG Awards airing Jan. 25.
Trophy Hunting: Golden Globes Awards
Tonight
The Nile Project: Check out this stage performance 
representing various Nile Basin cultures, includ-
ing songs in 11 different languages. The show starts at 7:30 p.m. in the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts, and ticket prices range from 
$10 to $35.
Friday
“Listen up Philip”: Watch this complex comedy 
about a man who gets away from his busy, 
problematic life and focuses on himself. The ﬁ  lm 
starts at 6:30 p.m. at the Hippodrome State The-
atre, and tickets are from $5.50 to $7.50. 
Saturday
Music 360: Listen to Led Zeppelin as you watch a 
laser show inside Santa Fe Collegeʼs Kika Silva 
Pla Planetarium dome. The show starts at 9 p.m., and tickets are $10. 
Sunday
”Fury”: At 2 p.m., watch Wardaddy (Brad Pitt) and 
his crew undergo a dangerous mission in the ﬁ  -
nal days of World War II in the ﬁ  lm “Fury” in 
the Reitz Union Auditorium as part of Reitz Union 
Board Entertainmentʼs free 
events. Admission is 
free and no Gator 1 Card is required.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-16-14-9-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short walk to bus stop, large yard for fun/garden, fireplace, DW, game room, cent heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text/call 352-339-2342 GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com   1-16-14-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UPPAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!$300 & UP!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $99995 Toyota Camry $125088 Honda Civic $125095 Pontiac Bonneville $1300352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $175092 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $95000 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 1-23-14-73-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-16-15-8-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for 
a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
-WANTED-
Pers./Admin. Asst.
$25/hr.
home & office work in
G’ville, Jax & Asheville
Ben Campen
352-375-4152
1-15-15-2-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
St. Johns River Water Management District 
is actively seeking multi-talented appli -
cants for the position of Creative Services Specialist. Successful applicant will create web pages, design informational graphics and presentations, and produce videos. For more information and to apply, visit www.floridaswater.com. EEO/DFWP/TFWP/VET PREF    1-20-15-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Professional Editing Service.
Dr. Trad Nogueira-Godsey is offering his ser-vices to help you produce the best version of your writing. Visit www.tradgodsey.com for details or contact him directly attradgodsey@gmail.com    1-16-15-2-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Treon Harris misdemeanor closed
Treon Harris’ misdemeanor case for driving without 
a license has been closed, according to court documents.alligatorSports podcast
Editors Graham Hall and Jordan McPherson join Richard Johnson on the ﬁ  rst alligatorSports podcast of the semester. Check it out at alligatorSports.org or download it on iTunes.UF coach Jim McElwain has his eyes on a select group of recruits. For a full breakdown, read the story on Page 15.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
The Florida Gators men’s basket-
ball team looks to continue its success 
in Southeastern Conference play this season as the Gators face off against Auburn tonight at 7 in the O’Connell 
Center. 
Florida (9-6, 2-0 SEC) has yet to face 
defeat at home against Auburn  under 
Donovan.
But tonight will be the ﬁ  rst time the 
Gators face off against the Tigers (9-6, 1-1 SEC) under the direction of Au-burn’s new coach, Bruce Pearl.
Pearl, who was named Auburn bas-
ketball’s head coach in March, previ-ously served as the head coach at Ten-nessee from 2005-2011, so he is not a completely new face. 
In the 12 times Donovan’s Gators 
faced Pearl’s Volunteers, Florida won four matches while Tennessee claimed the other eight.
This season is Pearl’s ﬁ  rst back to 
coaching after serving a three-year pen-alty for lying to the NCAA about re-cruiting visits.
“Anytime you’ve got a new coach 
coming in, there’s going to be some time and some transition that those kids are going to go through,” Donovan said. 
“Bruce has got a system and a style 
that’s been very effective, very success-ful. He’s going to play a certain way.”
The Tigers may be adjusting to 
Pearl’s new system and style but they 
have not yet ﬁ  gured out how to take 
that knowledge and potency on the road with them. Auburn has yet to win a game on the road this season.
Donovan added that he thinks 
there’s somewhat of a misconception around the idea of Auburn playing fast.
“In a lot of situations, the shot clock 
is going to get down to 10, 12 seconds,” Donovan said. 
“They’re going to run their offense 
(and) get into whatever action they Florida hosts Auburn tonight, looks for third straight SEC win
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State 
on Saturday in the O’Connell Center.
AIR JORDAN
Billy Donovan had to 
have liked what he saw in Florida’s ﬁ  rst 
two Southeastern Confer-ence games.
But there’s no way he’s 
going to settle and call this 
a victory.
The Gators aren’t ready 
just yet.
They showed they can 
win a close game against a South Caro-lina team that has a defense ranked in 
the top half of the conference in points allowed (fourth, 58.1 per game), shoot-ing percentage (second, .338) and 
three-point shooting percentage (sec-
ond, .279).
They showed they can blow out a 
Mississippi State team that is barely able to compete against conference op-
ponents.
But can they do it again?
And can they do it when they face 
the cream of the crop in the SEC — or 
any quality team for that matter?If this Gators team is 
lacking anything, it’s con-
sistency.
Especially on offense.Florida is ranked sev-
enth or worse in the SEC in every offensive statisti-
cal category except for one 
— assist-to-turnover ratio (fourth, 1.1).
On the season, UF is 
making just 66.3 percent of its free 
throws, better than only Tennessee, 
Texas A&M and Auburn in the confer-ence.
UF has four players making less 
than 60 percent of their attempts from the charity stripe.
The duo of Dorian Finney-Smith 
and Michael Frazier II have accounted for nearly 40 percent of Florida’s scor-
ing offense this season, racking up 389 
of UF’s 1014 points.
The third-highest scorer on the 
team?UF hoops needs consistency 
in second half of season
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Even though the schedule doesn’t get 
any easier  — with tonight’s matchup 
against the No. 10 Kentucky Wildcats on the road being a prime example of the schedule’s difﬁ  culty  — the Gators wom-en’s basketball team is hoping to ﬁ  nd easier ways to score. 
According to 
redshirt senior Kayla Lewis, Flori-da feels most com-fortable scoring on the fast break and 
running the ﬂ  oor efﬁ  ciently. 
“We have to ﬁ  nd ways to score easily,” 
Lewis said. “That means being a better defensive team, getting layups, scoring in transition. Also getting to the free throw line a lot more.”
Lewis remembers last season, when 
Florida went into Lexington on Jan. 5, 2014, and beat the then-No. 6 Wildcats on their 
home court. 
That team used the victory as validation 
— the Gators saw they could beat some of 
the best teams in the country, and Florida made it to the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
To get back to the tournament this sea-
son, Lewis believes Florida (9-8, 1-3 South-eastern Conference) needs to play a more attacking style at the offensive end.
“I think we are going to have to be more 
aggressive when penetrating to the basket against this team,” Lewis said. “They pres-sure up so hard that if you don’t counter it, then you’ll end up having turnovers trying to pass the ball.”
The pressure is only going to increase 
for Florida. Including tonight’s contest 
against the Wildcats (14-3, 3-1 SEC), seven of the Gators ﬁ  nal 12 regular season games are against ranked opponents.
For Florida, the team is preparing for Gators head to Kentucky 
to face depleted Wildcats“Anytime you’ve got a new 
coach coming in, there’s going 
to be some time and some 
transition that those kids are 
going to go through. Bruce 
has got a system and a style 
that’s been very effective, very 
successful.”
Billy Donovan
Men’s basketball coach
UF W omen’s 
Bask etballSEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 16SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 16Tipoff set for 7 in O’Dome
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
FOOTBALL
 UF HAS EIGHT VERBAL COMMITS.
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan_Moriarty
With the recruiting dead period over and 
National Signing Day approaching in just 
three short weeks, the Florida coaching staff 
has to hit the recruiting trail hard to put to-
gether the 2015 recruiting class. 
The current class has just eight verbal com-
mits and ranks as the 94th class in the country 
per Rivals.com. 
Let’s take a look at the top committed and 
uncommitted prospects that the coaching staff 
will be looking at in the weeks to come. 
Offensive Targets
New head coach Jim McElwain has spoken 
about recruiting for depth along the offensive 
line, which is an area of need. Florida loses starters Tyler Moore, Chaz Green and Max 
Garcia, as well as Trenton Brown next season. 
UF has three offensive linemen who are 
verbally committed to join the Gators in 
2015, including Michael Horton (6-foot-4, 320 pounds, Atlanta, Lakeside High) Tyler Jordan 
(6-foot-5, 270 pounds, Jacksonville, Bishop 
Kenny High) and Brandon Sandifer (6-foot-3, 332 pounds, Warner Robins, Georgia, North-side School). 
The top offensive tackle in the 2015 class, 
Martez Ivey (6-foot-5, 271 pounds, Apopka, Apopka High), is considering Florida among Alabama, Auburn, Florida State and LSU. 
He took an official visit to Florida last Oc-tober. The biggest threat to Florida is Auburn, which he officially visited last November. 
Getting Ivey would be very big, but Sum-
mers has done well getting Jordan, Sandifer and Horton to commit. 
Florida is also in need of explosive play-
makers at wide receiver, something that se-verely lacking last season with the exception of sophomore Demarcus Robinson. 
Ryan Davis (5-foot-10, 161 pounds, St. Pe-
tersburg, Lakewood High) looks likely to end up at Florida. 
The four-star prospect is the eighth over-
all receiver in the 2015 class. He is more of a 
slot receiver, which is a definite area of need 
as well. As a senior last fall, he had over 2,000 receiving yards. 
The staff is also currently trying to flip 
receiver Auden Tate (6-foot-4, 199 pounds, Tampa, Wharton High) from his verbal com-mitment to Florida State. He is scheduled to take an official visit to Florida on Jan. 23.
Defensive Targets
The two obvious targets on the defensive 
side are five-star defensive ends Byron Cow-
art (6-foot-3, 252 pounds, Seffner) and Cece Jefferson (6-foot-2, 245 pounds, Glen St. Mary, 
Baker County High). 
Jefferson confirmed via his Twitter account 
(@cecejeferson7) that his last official visits be-
fore Signing Day would be to Auburn, Ole Miss and LSU. Current Auburn defensive co-
ordinator Will Muschamp was recruiting Jef-
ferson while he was still at UF. 
Cowart has an official visit set for Gainesville on Jan. 23. 
In an effort to build linebacker depth, Flori-
da has three players on its radar. 
New defensive coordinator Geoff Collins 
is expected to make a visit at the high school 
of Adonis Thomas (6-foot-3, 219 pounds, Law-
renceville, Ga., Central Gwinnett High) on Thurday. Thomas committed to Florida over the summer, but decommitted in October. 
The No. 7 ranked linebacker in this year’s 
class, Roquan Smith (6-foot, 203 pounds, Mon-tezuma, Ga., Macon County High) and four-star linebacker Jeffery Holland (6-foot-1, 225 
pounds, Jacksonville, Fla., Trinity Christian) 
are also big targets for building Florida’s line-backer corps.
Martez Ivey, Byron Cowart among recruits UF targeting
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain speaks during his introductory press conference on Dec. 6 at the 
Norm Carlson Press Box in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
 INDIVIDUAL QUESTIONS BEGIN ON FRIDAY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
FALL RIVER, Mass. — Lawyers 
involved in the murder trial of for-
mer New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandez want to know if there are any die-hard Patriots fans 
in the jury pool.
They also have asked more than 
1,000 potential jurors whether the 
fact that Hernandez played for the NFL would make them feel he was more likely to be guilty, and how much they know about the case.
Prospective jurors filled out 
the questionnaire during the first 
phase of jury selection in Bristol County Superior Court, which 
spanned three days and ended Tuesday. The court released the 51-question form late Tuesday af-ternoon.
Hernandez has pleaded not 
guilty to murder for the June 2013 
shooting death of Odin Lloyd, a 
semi-professional football player who was dating the sister of Her-nandez’s fiancee. Several of the questions focused on Hernandez’s status as a football player.
“Does the fact that Mr. Her-
nandez was a professional foot-ball player make you feel that he 
is more likely to be guilty of the 
charges in this case than an indi-vidual that did not play football professionally would be?” read one question.
It also asked whether the person is a Patriots fan; if so, for how long; whether he or she has attended a game and if so, how many.
The questionnaire informs pro-
spective jurors that the case will draw a high degree of media atten-tion and that they will be barred 
from posting anything about the 
case on Face-
book, Twitter or other social me-dia or elsewhere online.
“Would you 
be able to abide by these rules 
for the entirety 
of the trial?” po-
tential jurors were asked.
Several questions focused on 
their familiarity with the case, ranging from never having heard about it to following it closely. It asked where they got their infor-mation, listing more than 50 me-dia outlets, from the local Herald News of Fall River to the National Enquirer, as well as social media and other sources.
Judge Susan Garsh told pro-
spective jurors before they com-pleted the questionnaires that they still might be called as jurors if they had heard of the case or knew one of the witnesses.
They were asked if they knew 
any of 300 people listed as po-tential witnesses or others whose 
names might come up during 
trial, including Patriots coach Bill Belichick and team owner Robert Kraft.
Potential jurors were also 
questioned about their feelings on race and ethnicity.Hernandez is Hispanic, Lloyd was African-American, and Hernandez’s fian-cee, Shayanna Jenkins, is African-American.
Also Tuesday, the judge turned 
down a request from CNN that the 
questioning of prospective jurors 
be done in a way that the public can hear. CNN expressed concerns that Garsh’s plan to question pro-spective jurors out of the public’s hearing violates the First Amend-ment. 
But Garsh responded that Mas-
sachusetts’ Supreme Judicial Court 
found it was constitutional to 
question jurors out of the public’s hearing, as long as the public could see the proceeding.
Individual questioning of jurors 
is expected to start Friday.
Hernandez jurors asked about attending Patriots games
Hernandez
want to run at that time.
“For them, the look of them play-
ing fast? We play fast too.”
Leading Auburn in fast play is 
starter KT Harrell. 
The senior guard is averag-
ing more points per game (17) than 
any Gator. Redshirt junior forward Dorian Finney-Smith leads the Gators with 14.1 points per game.
“I’m trying to get him to be a con-
sistent guy in terms of his rep that he gets up to the basket that it’s a good, consistent rep that he shoots in the ball in a fashion and a way that gives 
it the best chances to go in,” Donovan 
said of Finney-Smith.
Redshirt junior forward Alex 
Murphy expects tonight’s game to be a pretty fair matchup. Murphy said that the Tigers play a similar style to UF. 
“His team is always similar to us, 
they press, they play fast, so I expect Thursday night to be a track meet out there and it’s fun, you know,” Mur-phy said. 
“You get a lot of points, like I said, 
turnovers lead to fast break points and that sort of thing so I think that helps us too.”16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015
Florida has used 10 different starting lineups this season
Point guard Kasey Hill, whose 
.380 mark from the field is the sec-
ond-worst on the team.
Marginal stats aren’t going to keep 
up with Kentucky.
They’re not going to keep up with 
the NCAA Tournament teams, if 
Florida were to even make it.
Hell, they might not even keep up 
with Auburn tonight.
Florida needs an identity.
It needs a plan.
And it needs consistency, part of 
which should come by shoring up a 
definite starting lineup — a challenge Donovan has failed to solve as the 
Gators begin the second half of their 
regular-season schedule.
Already this season — which is 
only 15 games deep — Florida has used 10 different groups to start the game.
Donovan hasn’t used the same 
lineup in back-to-back games since 
playing Yale and Texas Southern on 
Dec. 8 and 12, respectively.
The road is only going to get 
tougher from here.
Following tonight’s game against 
the Tigers, three of UF’s next five op-ponents are either ranked in the AP 
top-25 or receiving votes.
Florida showed strides in its last 
two games.
All that’s left for the Gators to 
do is have that same showing as the 
schedule picks up again.
But if this season has shown any-
thing — cue up the games against Mi-ami, Kansas, even Florida State and UConn — that’s not going to happen.
Donovan needs an answer.
And he doesn’t have much time 
left.COLUMN , from page 14
HOOPS , from page 14KT Harrell averages 17 
points per game for AuburnFlorida defeated Kentucky in Rupp Arena last season
each game individually. Each opponent is 
different, and therefore requires a specific method of preparation. 
“From this point on, we’re gonna play 
great teams,” Lewis said. “We’re not go-ing to stake our whole season off this one game. We’re just trying to win one at a time, get our team back on track. Get every-
body on the same page and really establish 
ourselves in the SEC as a great defensive team.”
In the Wildcats 68-60 loss to No. 1 South 
Carolina on Sunday, Kentucky was dealt a huge blow when starting point guard Janee Thompson suffered a dislocated left ankle that resulted in a broken fibula. Thompson, who is out for the season, 
leads the Wildcats in assists, and the team could either stagger the rest of the way -  or use the loss of one of its leaders as motiva-tion. 
The Gators are still without their start-
ing point guard, with Carlie Needles out with a concussion she suffered against Ole Miss. While not as severe an injury as 
Thompson’s, Florida needs to harness the 
same passion Lewis believes Kentucky will play with. 
“You’re going to play a Kentucky team 
at Kentucky that just came off a tragedy losing their point guard to a graphic situa-tion,” Lewis said. “Their coach got ejected, and those guys are going to just have a whole lot of passion and fire about winning 
for (Thompson) and bouncing back.”W-HOOPS , from page 14Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Billy Donovan talks to freshman Devin Robinson during Florida’s 72-47 win over Mississippi 
State on Saturday. The Gators are 2-0 in Southeastern Conference play this season. 
