By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Florida should have had no problems on 
Saturday.
The No. 8 Gators came in as a 30-plus 
point favorite against Florida Atlantic, a Conference-USA team with just two wins 
to its name.
But what should have been a blowout 
turned into a nail-biting overtime victory, with the Gators needing Brian Poole to break up back-to-back passes to seal the 
20-14 win.
It’s another close win in the Jim McEl-wain era — his ﬁ  fth by seven points or 
fewer — but with Florida’s schedule get-ting tougher from here on out, the Gators have no room for error.
“We really have to just push through 
it,” tight end Jake McGee said. 
“From here on out, if you can’t get up 
for these games, you really shouldn’t be playing football.”
The defense continued its dominant 
run, forcing ﬁ  ve sacks and three turnovers while also breaking up a season-high nine passes.
But once again, the offense found a way 
to ﬂ  atline for the bulk of the game.
Treon Harris completed just 8-of-17 
passes for 122 yards, his lowest output of the season as the lone quarterback.
Harris did throw a pair of timely touch-
down passes — a third-quarter bomb to 
freshman Antonio Callaway to give the We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 64 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
UF volleyball collapses against 
Texas A&M
The Gators closed Southeastern
Conference play with a 3-2 loss, pg. 15
Helping homeless children
Money was raised to help feed homeless children for Thanksgiving, pg. 5
GMOs may not be as bad as you think
UF professors give their input, pg. 8Honey, He’s Good
Check out the Andy Grammer concert mini photo story, pg. 3
‘PUSH THROUGH IT’
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
FAU 14 FLORIDA 20
Overtime win a wake-up call
CAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
As scooters whirred past on 
Saturday, Maria Coady thought 
of her son.
When she couldn’t find a 
helmet in the bunch, the UF 
education associate professor 
wanted to scream.
It has almost been a year 
since her son Thomas was killed when his motorcycle crashed into a pick-up truck.
Although her son was wear-
ing a helmet when he died, Coady helped organize a rally 
before the football game against 
Florida Atlantic University on Saturday to promote safe scoot-er usage. As fans walked to the Swamp for the football game, they were met by volunteers handing out hundreds of reflec-tive armbands, neon-green T-shirts and metal buttons.
“We’re trying to prevent 
deaths, really,” Coady said. “We’re doing whatever we can.”
The scooter and motorcycle 
safety event was hosted by Ride Smart Florida, a group funded by the Florida Department of Transportation.
For Hali McKinley Lester, a 
scooter ride resulted in a skull fracture.
As the scooter collided with 
a car on Northwest 34th Street 
last February, McKinley Lester 
wasn’t wearing a helmet. She wound up at UF Health Shands Hospital.
“To me, it’s just not worth 
it,” she said.
Nearly a year through an  UF professor lobbies 
for scooter safety 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org 
UF paid the U.S. government about $19.9 
million Friday. 
The money was paid to settle allegations 
that UF misused research grants given by the 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
said David Norton, the UF vice president for 
research. The U.S. Department of Justice inves-tigated issues with UF’s bookkeeping system from 2005 to 2010. 
The settlement allows UF to avoid a long 
and expensive litigation, he said. 
UF did an internal audit in 2006 that exposed 
weaknesses in how UF documents the amount of time a faculty member spends researching. 
When a faculty member receives a grant, 
part of his or her salary is paid by that grant based on how much time they spend on re-search, Norton said.UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said the issue 
is similar to when an employee works but for-gets to sign in. 
UF couldn’t verify if faculty members 
worked the amount of time they said they did. Norton said the university completely re-
placed their veriﬁ  cation system.
 The Department of Justice looked at about 
1,900 grants given to UF, totaling about $1 bil-lion, during their investigation, Norton said. 
This settlement has no effect on the quality 
of research at UF, Norton said.
“It allows us to really move forward in doing 
great research for this state, the nation and the world,” he said.  UF settles $19.9 million Department of Justice investigationSEE SCOOTER,  PAGE 4
“It allows us to really move forward in 
doing great research for this state, the 
nation and the world,”
David Norton
UF vice president for researchDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
BABY GATOR
Kannon Klien, 2, gazes at the Florida marching band at Gator Walk on Saturday while perched on top of 
his dad, T odd Klien. The 41-year-old Georgia State University alumnus said it was Kannon’s ﬁ  rst game.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Harn Museum of Art Tours
International Education Week is 
ending at the Harn. Drop in for an engaging docent-led tour that explores current exhibitions in all 
galleries which focus on African, 
Asian, modern contemporary art and photography. For more infor-mation visit harn.ufl.edu
Talking Gators anniversary cel-
ebration Dec. 5Talking Gators Toastmasters Club will host a 10th Anniversary 
Celebration and Reunion on 
Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at The Uptown Village Clubhouse, 3780 NW 24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters members and officers  throughout the area, and past and present Talking Gators club members and of-ficers. RSVP by calling 352-283-
3919. For more information about 
the club, visit talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org or the Facebook page.
UF College of Arts, School of Music 
present annual holiday concertThe UF College of the Arts and the School of Music is pleased to 
present its annual holiday con-
cert, Sounds of the Season: An American Holiday, conducted by Will Kesling. Come and enjoy an array of holiday favorites. It is a short musical play that tells the story of the origin of the NORAD 
Tracks Santa program, which has 
been following Santa’s progress from the North Pole to children around the globe since the 1950s. Tickets are free and will be dis-tributed at the door beginning at 5 p.m. the day of the concert, Dec. 6. For more information, contact the Phillips Center Box Office at 
352-392-2787 or visit performin-
garts.ufl.edu.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club is extending open invitations to the bi-weekly lessons/dances ev-ery Monday and Friday. There are free lessons for beginners 
and intermediates open to ev-
eryone. On Monday nights, they are at the Reitz Union Breezeway (655 Reitz Union Dr.) with les-sons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. On Friday nights, they are at the Unified Training Center (809 W University Ave.) with lessons 
from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social 
dancing from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find us on Facebook at facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ‘65,” is on view in the University Gallery at UF until Dec. 4 and is the final exhi-bition of the year in celebration 
of the gallery’s 50th anniversary. 
The exhibition showcases two esteemed UF art alumni Robert Fichter and Mernet Larsen. It also features photographs and paintings, including photographs from the early ‘60s of Fichter and Larsen taken by Jerry Uelsmann. To learn more about the artists 
and the exhibition, visit arts.ufl.
edu/calendar.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 64
HIGH  63° LOW  44°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Emma Green / Alligator
An audience member spins a ﬂ  ashing hula hoop at the Andy Gram-
mer concert on Friday. The show on Flavet Field, which also fea-tured Magic!, was UF Student Government Productions’ last free concert of the semester.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Andy Grammer grins as the audience sings along with “Keep Your Head Up” on Friday. His show also included “Fine by Me, ” “Honey, I’m Good” and a cover of “Trumpets” by Jason Derulo.
 Honey, He’s Good4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
18-month recovery, the UF in-
ternational studies and history sophomore came to the event to 
support the rally.
McKinley Lester said even af-
ter her friends heard about the 
accident, most continued to ride without a helmet. She said the only way to reach students is to normalize the act of wearing helmets.
“To me, it’s gonna take a 
requirement. It’s gonna take laws,” she said.
UF President Kent Fuchs said 
the only way to improve scooter safety is for students and faculty to hold each other accountable.
“It is really about each of us 
developing good habits and en-
couraging our friends to do the 
same,” he said.
The rally is one of several 
ways Coady wants to change campus culture about scooter safety.
She debuted a nine-minute 
public service announcement video on Thursday, one she hopes to show at Preview.  
The video tells the stories 
of Thomas and two others like him, all victims of motorized accidents.  
Coady also hopes to create 
a mandatory online course for students who ride scooters or motorcycles. 
For her, it’s about protecting 
the lives of students like her son and shielding their parents from heartbreak.
She also plans to work with 
the Florida Legislature to sim-plify helmet laws and make it easier for police to pull over underage scooter drivers who aren’t wearing headgear.
Currently, riding without a 
helmet, even for those under 18 years old, does not warrant an officer stopping someone.
Coady thinks it should. It’s 
just a matter of time before more students get hurt, she said.
“We can’t wait anymore,” 
she said.SCOOTER,  from pg 1She wants to work with 
Florida LegislatureA UF STUDENT WAS 
ARRESTED.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested a UF 
student during Saturday’s football 
game after police said he tried to es-cape arrest after trying to stop police from taking his friend to Emergency Medical Services.
At about 12:30 p.m. Saturday, 
Austin S. Anderson, 22, propped his friend against a pillar under Gate 13 of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, accord-ing to a police report.
An officer talked with Anderson’s 
friend until he smelled alcohol and tried to bring him to EMS. Anderson tried to grab his friend and said his 
friend would not be taken by the officer, who then 
pushed Anderson 
and told him to 
back up, accord-
ing to the report.
The officer 
detained Ander-son after a sec-ond attempt to rescue his friend, 
but he soon escaped from the book-
ing room. Three officers eventually captured Anderson and brought him 
back. He was extremely drunk and 
refused to give police his name, ac-
cording to the report.
Anderson is listed as a student 
in the UF directory and could not be reached for comment as of press time. 
Police arrested Anderson for re-
sisting an officer and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was 
released Sunday afternoon on his own recognizance. 
Anderson was the only person 
UPD arrested during the game. UPD 
also ejected 25 people, including 10 students.
Six ejections were the result 
of disorderly conduct followed by five for intoxication, five for ticket switching, three for alcohol posses-sion, three for sitting in the wrong section, two for smoking and one for 
not having a ticket.One arrested, 25 ejected at Saturday’s football game 
Anderson
LOCAL
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Melanie O’Rourke took a few steps back 
before she hit Donald Trump’s body with 
a stick. 
The Santa Fe College industrial biotech-
nology senior laughed before she handed 
the stick to the next person. 
O’Rourke was participating in “Wack 
Trump,” an event at the Civic Media Cen-
ter on Saturday that allowed visitors to hit a Donald Trump piñata. While it was free to hit the piñata, the Civic Media Center raised $30 in donations to maintain its nonprofit events. 
Ana Treviño, 31, created the piñata after 
she heard the comments Trump made dur-ing the summer about Mexican Americans. A Mexican American who grew up mak-
ing piñatas, the UF art and technology graduate student thought it was a good 
way to blend her art with her feelings 
about Trump. 
“Donald Trump is a figure that is saying 
a lot of toxic things,” Treviño said. “This is a way for like-minded individuals to get together and bash on what he is saying.” 
The piñata was filled with Mexican and 
American candy as well as negative quotes Trump has said about immigration. 
Paula Johns, 21, watched from afar as 
her friend hit the Trump piñata.
“It seemed entertaining for a good cause 
against what he is doing,” the UF psychol-ogy senior said. “His policy is not in the best interest for what our country needs.”Organization offers Trump 
piñata hits to raise money
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Paloma Mendez, a 22-year-old UF Spanish senior, swings at a Donald Trump-shaped 
piñata created by visiting artist Ana Trevino at the Civic Media Center on Saturday.  
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
In a chapel on Friday, every per-
son received a slip of paper.
Each had a name, age and place 
of death.
Zella Ziona, 21, a mall in Wash-
ington, D.C.  
India Clarke, 25, Tampa.
The names would eventually be 
read aloud in the Universal Church of Gainesville as part of its second an-nual observation of Transgender Day of Remembrance. About 30 people gathered in the chapel to share sto-ries and remember the lives lost.
London VanHoose was one of 
four who told a personal story.  
Growing up in Ohio, she was a 
small-town boy. She wore costumes and played with Barbie dolls.
But as time passed, her parents 
opposed her femininity.
“I struggled my whole life,” Van-
Hoose said, “wondering who I am, 
what I was.”
The struggle was mapped out in a 
letter she wrote to herself seven years 
ago. It was a “to-do list of transition,” she said.
Step 1: Get hormones.Step 2: Get implants.VanHoose said she wanted to be-come her ideal self, but she focused too much on her outward appear-ance. Years later, she’s completed about 10 percent of her list, she said.
“In your heart, you are who you 
are, and that’s who you need to be,” she said to the crowd.
Now a worldwide event meant 
to honor the victims of transphobia, Transgender Day of Remembrance started 17 years ago as a candlelight vigil in honor of Rita Hester, a trans-gender woman who died the year be-fore. The Universal Church decided to host the Gainesville celebration be-cause it supports all people, regard-
less of sexuality or gender identity, 
said Rev. Vince Amlin.
“We welcome and celebrate all 
people, inclusive of sexual orienta-tion and gender identity, and so this is kind of a natural part of what we do,” Amlin said.
He softly sounded a gong each 
time a dozen names had been read 
aloud. Row by row, members of the 
crowd recited the names on their piece of paper.
Some names were incomplete, 
ages unrecorded, but they were all celebrated, not for how they died but for how they lived.
“These people are not statistics,” 
Britney Williams said to the crowd. 
“These lives mean something in 
some way to all of us here.”All of her life, Williams thought 
she was different. She felt queer.  
“Queer in the sense of not belong-
ing here,” she said, “as in having a self that is at odds with everything around it.”
To her, Friday night was a way of 
giving voices to the voiceless.
“This violence and suicide has left 
many of us hurting, but this day of remembrance really just proves to me that we are not alone, that no one in this community is alone,” she said.
As the names were read aloud, UF 
linguistics senior Alex Schlaupitz said 
he was disheartened by the number 
of deaths and where they came from, primarily Brazil and the U.S.
“It’s definitely a sad thing to think 
about,” the 23-year-old said.   
Before any global change can oc-
cur, he said, individual communities like Gainesville first need to come together.  
After the crowd read off their 
names, the rest were spoken from the altar.
Sean Waters, a Santa Fe College 
alumnus and transgender man, read dozens of names himself. 
Waters, 26, said hate doesn’t start 
with violence. It starts with ostracism and intolerance. 
While it’s necessary to honor the 
victims of transphobia, he said peo-ple cannot lose sight of the still-living members of the Trans community.
“We’re here,” he said. “We’ve got 
to take care of each other.”Gainesville remembers trans lives
They were celebrated
“It is really about each of us 
developing good habits and 
encouraging our friends to 
do the same.”
Kent Fuchs
UF presidentMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Beneath Saturday’s gloomy 
clouds, the path was lit by plastic 
candles.
Nick Antonelli walked down the 
path to remember a friend and UF 
professor of late medieval and early 
modern English culture, James Pax-son, who took his own life four years ago.
About 60 other people did the 
same at the 3rd Annual Candlelight Vigil for Survivors of Suicide Loss at the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park. The 
ceremony Saturday afternoon was 
part of International Survivors of Sui-cide Loss Day.Paxson was the father of Antonel-
li’s ex-girlfriend. Antonelli, 28, said he had a friendly relationship with the 50-year-old, and could tell Pax-son was struggling at the time.
The candlelight vigil, he said, 
helps by creating a sense of commu-
nity.
“I’ve been the last two years as 
well,” he said. “It does exactly what 
it needs to do.”
Most visitors wore different col-
ored beads to symbolize their rela-tionship to the person they lost to suicide.
Judy Broward wore silver and 
white for her son, Brett. Silver repre-sented his occupation as a police of-ficer. White was for a lost child.
He was 27 when he took his own 
life 12 years ago.“He was way too young,” Bro-
ward said. “If I knew then what I know now, I would have recognized the subtle signs, like the withdrawal, the depression.”
Broward, the coordinator of the 
garden and a member of Friends of 
the Crisis Center, said twice as many 
officers die by suicide than in the line of duty.
She later spoke at the ceremony, 
which started early because of the threat of rain. Yet people’s faces were already wet with tears as they circled around the garden’s labyrinth, a maze with a poem in the center.
Jan Greene, the training coordina-
tor at the Alachua County Crisis Cen-ter, read a poem interspersed with about 50 names of those who died by suicide.Survivors bowed their heads or 
looked up to the sky in remembrance.
Ali Martinez, the director of the 
center, said this was her first time at the vigil as a survivor. She paused before she began speaking again, this time with a choked voice.
“I’ve learned in the past few 
months the importance of a commu-nity to cry with you,” she said. “You need that connection.”
All three speakers stressed the 
importance of decreasing the stigma surrounding suicide. Many people don’t want to talk about it, and oth-ers don’t want to ask, they said.
Off to the side stood a tree cov-
ered with twinkling lights. Known as the Memory Tree of Lights, it held the names of loved ones lost to sui-cide. It was here people gathered af-
ter the ceremony was over.
“The grief around suicide loss is 
complicated because of the anger 
and guilt and the questions of what they could have done to prevent it,” Martinez said. “The ceremony and the park offers a chance for reflection and connection in a place of healing and solace.”
For help or more information, call 
the Alachua County Crisis Center ho-tline at 352-264-6789 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK.
Friends, families remember lost loved ones at vigil LOCAL
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
Gerri Gerthe borrowed against her home to 
fund a festival. 
The money, less than $4,000, went toward 
$1,000 in food, $800 for a ride at the festival, and equipment costs. 
But she did it so the Ohana Candy Cane 
Festival in Ocala would be able to raise the money needed to feed 100 families on Thanks-giving. The festival, which ran from Thursday to Sunday, was hosted by Florida Kids Helping Kids, which Gerthe founded.
“I borrowed against my home to get it,” 
she said. “It’s what makes these things run smoother.”
Gerthe said last year 2,800 local kids were 
homeless — and 308 of those were sleeping outside. The festival, she said, was a chance to not only raise money for their Thanksgiving meal, but also help them have fun for a day. 
“There’ll be a lot of kids here who wouldn’t 
get to come and have this festival,” she said. “So, just coming out and being a part and shar-ing in the kids’ laughter and awe, it’s some-
thing that they will never forget.”
As of press time, it is unclear how much was raised during the festival. But all of the 
funds will go toward feeding families and chil-dren during the holidays. Gerthe said the pro-gram is always looking for donations of food like protein shakes and peanut butter, items that can be bundled together to make meals.
“It’s not what I’m doing,” she said. “It’s 
what the community does with us.”
The Ohana Candy Cane Festival gave 21 
children in Gerthe’s program the chance to run and develop the festival, helping other children their age get off the street. They even named the festival, choosing “ohana” from the movie “Lilo and Stitch” to represent family and “can-dy cane” because it is something festive and uplifting. 
About 30 vendors set up shop around the 
festival grounds in support of Florida Kids Helping Kids.
“The title to me says it all,” said Marylou 
Johnson, a Pop’s County Corn popcorn seller.
She said she thought it was awesome for 
people to care enough for their local homeless and needy children to do something about it.
Rasmussen College software design fresh-
man Tony Uglialoro, 18, has worked the fes-tival three times by directing cars into parking spaces and filling in odd jobs because of the opportunity to help the children. 
“I just want to see kids smile,” he said.               Helping homeless children, one carnival at a time 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
David Bocarando, a 22-year-old Big O Amusements employee, runs the Jitterbug 
ride at the Ohana Candy Cane Festival on Saturday. Big O Amusements brought more than a dozen carnival rides to the festival free of charge.
“If I knew then what I know 
now, I would have recognized 
the subtle signs, like the 
withdrawal, the depression.”
Judy Broward
MotherThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Great 
American Stupid: 
Donald Trump 
makes us sick
For the duration of this semester, we in editorial have in-
tentionally sidestepped any discussion of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. We’d say it’s the journalistic equiv-alent of ignoring the elephant in the room, but it’s been more akin to trying to cover your eyes and ears while the 
girl from “The Exorcist” vomits all over you and your surround-ings, punctuating her invasive illness with proud recitals of rac-ist rhetoric, stomach-churning stupidity and blatant pandering.
But there’s only so much vomit one can stomach before they 
too have to throw up. Hopefully in this strained metaphor, our vomit represents that of a higher grade than Trump’s.
In August, long-time political author Matt Taibbi wrote a 
piece for “Rolling Stone” called “Donald Trump Just Stopped Being Funny.” In it, Taibbi wrote that Trump’s campaign, no 
matter the outcome, “threatens to unleash the Great American 
Stupid.” Three months later, this is no longer a threat nor a hy-pothetical: The Great American Stupid has ﬁ  rmly metastasized, and, like the cancer it is, makes our country sick, demented and difﬁ  cult to look at.
The American people stuck by Trump when he ﬁ  rst emerged 
as a racist fear-monger. The American people stuck by Trump as he proudly wore his misogyny on his sleeve. Perhaps most distressing of all, the American people have stuck by him after 
his painfully unfunny SNL appearance. And as Trump’s rhetoric 
descends into the realms of fascism and violence, vast swathes of the American populace will most likely stick by that as well.
Talks of a “registry” for Muslims. The fabrication of a story 
about Muslims cheering in the streets of New Jersey on 9/11. A disturbing glee and eagerness for the prospect of waterboarding human beings. Openly advocating for supporters to rough up a dissenting voice: THIS is what fascism in America looks like. Unlike in Europe, where the right-wing parties proudly display 
their oppressive and hateful platforms, here it is dressed up in 
a quintessentially American guise: that of the proud, boastful white male who did it all by himself and just wants to bring “his” country back.
A considerable portion of the Americans who hate “Barack 
Hussein Obummer” so much are the same people who would like to see Donald Trump become their next Commander in Chief. These are the individuals who decry having “too much gubment” in their lives and openly wonder, “Where my country 
gone?!” You know what? Elect him. Please. Establish a registry 
for Muslim Americans, cut taxes for the wealthy and brutalize those that look or speak differently from you, and see what it is to truly live in a repressive state. Of course, y’all will be the benefactors — if you consider being even more poor than you are now a beneﬁ  t — of such a state, so perhaps this editorial has only served to energize your cause, rather than draw scorn upon it.
Fuck Donald Trump, and shame on his supporters. Shame 
on those who speak of American values in the highest regard but detest those different from them. Shame on you, you who worship and venerate a man who possesses nothing but ut-ter contempt and condescension for you and your way of life. Where my country gone indeed.Column
A refresher on the 2016 presidential candidates 
Politics is a rough-and-tumble business. More than that, it’s also confusing. But rest assured, dear reader, this columnist is the one-stop shop for all of your polit-ical questions and quandaries. So with-
out delay, let’s clarify some political points your Politico friend keeps on talking about:
1. No, Sen. Ted Cruz did not have a debate 
“Oops” moment.
Before we talk about Cruz, let’s go over 
what an oops moment actually is. Back in 2012, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas made a big political mis-take. During one of the debates, the good Gov. outlined which federal agencies he would eliminate. He boldly an-
nounced he would get rid of three agencies: the Depart-
ment of Education, the Department of Commerce and… what was the third one? He forgot the agency on the big stage. Oops.    
Now Cruz, ironically also from Texas, during the last 
GOP debate declared which federal agencies he would eliminate — also ironic. Like Perry, he gave us a bold odd number: “Five major agencies that I would eliminate: the IRS, the Department of Commerce, the Department of En-
ergy, uh, the Department of Commerce and (Housing and 
Urban Development).” Conservatives really don’t like the Department of Commerce.
The Cruz moment is different from the Perry ﬂ  op 
because Cruz is a far superior debater and has a supe-rior intellect. Perry’s moment destroyed him because it played into the perception that he was slow-witted and not all that bright. Cruz does not have that problem. He is rhetorically gifted, Ivy League educated and can debate 
circles around any Democrat. Comparing the two Texans 
is not warranted.
2. Yes, Gov. John Kasich will be the next to drop.All of my liberal friends love Kasich. However, being 
the left’s favorite Republican probably doesn’t play well in conservative nation. That’s strike one. He also acts like a self-loathing conservative. He laments the policy positions of grass-roots conservatives. He lambasts their outsider candidates, and he is for every position a GOP 
primary voter is against: expanding Medicaid, OK-ing same-sex marriage and forging bi-partisanship. 
Strike two. A third is that he runs on being the former House Budget Chairman back in the Clinton days when he balanced the federal budget — undoubtedly a huge political vic-
tory and a huge conservative bona-ﬁ  de if this 
was another election year.  But it’s not another election year. This is the year of the outsider, the year of anti-Washington. Kasich ﬁ  ts the role of Candidate Washington. Three strikes and Kasich is most likely to drop out.
3. The reason Ben Carson, Bernie Sanders and Donald 
Trump are doing well is their temperament.
Stand aside, policy works! At this stage in the presi-
dential election, hard facts and pen-and-paper policy pro-posals don’t matter. What matters is the most fundamen-tal aspect of politics: Voters have to like a candidate’s temperament. Simple as that.
The electorate is seething at the political status quo. 
Americans feel that Washington and the elected represen-tatives have left them by the wayside.
Enter Trump stage right and Sanders stage left. Both 
vent the frustrations of the average American well. Amer-
icans feel that even though the powerful won’t listen to 
them, they will listen to the billionaire and the socialist. Trump and Sanders give voices to the barista, the blue-collar worker, the mechanic and the disgruntled constitu-ent. 
Carson does well because of his life story. Keep in 
mind this is his central life story, not the side details the media was enraptured with. It’s the story about a mother who would not accept a handout, about a son who rose 
from abject poverty to become one of the most respected 
neurosurgeons in the world, about the American Dream at its ﬁ  nest. The establishment might laugh off this doctor that says nutty things — which he does — but Americans connect with the man and his story, and they believe at his core he is a good, hardworking Christian. They don’t mind his lack of experience, lack of policy knowledge or lack of biographical oversight. They like his temperament.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
In the past week, 30 gov-
ernors from both parties have decided they will not 
accept Syrian refugees. Le-
gally, it’s unclear if this is 
possible because governors are not responsible for immigration 
policy, and this has been further 
muddled by Congress’ passing of a bill further slowing the bu-reaucratic process of admitting refugees. The act of voicing this anti-immigrant 
rhetoric feeds into the hands of Daesh and 
lets it have power.
Terrorists seek to alter our way of life. 
While some politicians think this means 
imposing Sharia, it can be done in more 
subtle, successful ways. The attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, changed air travel security completely. 
These precautions were supposed to 
make us safer, but the fact remains that 9/11 made us change the way we lead our lives. Similarly, by altering our refugee policy, we are compliant in Daesh’s aims 
to make Syrian people unsafe. If Daesh is 
to establish a caliphate, they need people to rule over and terrorize.
By refusing to take refugees, our politi-
cians are reinforcing stereotypes and pro-
moting the fact that Syrians are “other” or 
“different.” This type of discrimination is inherently un-American. The refugees are fleeing from terrorists. The vast majority 
of those terrorized by Daesh are people in 
Syria, and most of the deaths they cause do not occur in big attacks like those in Paris, but rather in everyday occurrences that are not given as much media atten-
tion. 
Not allowing Syrian refugees compro-
mises American ideals, giving Daesh what 
it wants: the power to both influence the 
U.S. and keep people within their terri-
tory. If no one else takes them, then they will be forced to live under Daesh’s con-trol. It’s often forgotten that most of the people being terrorized are Muslims in 
Iraq and Syria. Rejecting refugees gives 
Daesh more leverage and power than it deserves.
Some politicians have suggested sepa-
rating the refugees out into camps, but os-tracizing certain ethnicities has always been a morally dubious approach. 
The best example of this is 
the Japanese internment camps following Pearl Harbor, which the mayor of Roanoke has cited 
as a viable way of assessing the 
danger of a group. In reality, this just fuels hatred and dis-
crimination — while in turn doing little to protect the American people — because 
Japanese-Americans were and remain 
Americans, too. The same is true for Mus-lims. Despite what some may believe, it is possible to be both American and Mus-
lim. American principles are not incom-
patible with the religion.
It’s often overlooked that in order for 
refugees to come to the U.S., there is a strict screening process. While there 
were troubles in the past with refugee-
screening processes, the director of the FBI has since acknowledged the process has improved. To completely reject them 
because the screening process is fallible 
is assuming all Muslims seek to inflict ter-ror.
Islam is a major religion, which means 
it has incredible diversity just like Christi-
anity does. Most Christians would loathe 
being associated with Westboro Baptist Church, which is best known for picket-ing soldier’s funerals with homophobic 
signs. 
Underlying all of the rejections of Syr-
ian refugees by American governors has 
been the assumption that all Muslims are somehow responsible for Daesh, but 
this standard is never applied to Chris-
tians. Still, it is not the duty of Muslims to denounce Daesh; to do so would be to legitimize it and say extremism is the 
norm. Rejecting refugees because of their 
country of origin or religion legitimizes Islamophobia. 
Perpetuating falsehoods about Mus-
lims doesn’t just harm potential refugees, 
it also harms Americans. Worst of all, it 
harms American values.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-
days.Rejecting refugees is un-AmericanColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgI remember the ﬁ  rst time I went 
to UF in the winter of my se-nior year in high school. The red brick looked almost au-thentically collegiate Gothic. 
I remember the feeling of life be-ginning, one I tried to recapture during Preview weekend while driving in the snow-white blur of rain on I-75. I laughed at the billboards erected by the autoch-thons of my new home, who apparently still feared they might be aborted, performative-ly reading Schopenhauer in the stadium.
When I came to UF, I carried vague 
dreams of stepping into my real, authentic, Criterion-informed self. I was sure college would be a rebuke to the frustration and idiocy of high school, to the classrooms of 90 percent sleeping children with 25 percent writing proﬁ  ciency rates. 
As you may be able to tell by my tone, 
I was disappointed. UF felt like a health 
club with an unusually nice library. Liv-
ing in Midtown, I heard the shrieks of fu-ture insurance salesmen under my window as they trailed away from Cantina. Living downtown, I saw anencephalic hipsters and pseudo-punks perch on gross stools, staring in aphasic silence. I never found whatever mythic “intellectual” community I expect-ed; just man-children saying, “Wow, you’re 
Russian? That’s sick. I’m a Stalinist!”
Thinking about online education — or 
speciﬁ  cally, UF’s cynical, mercenary, trans-
parently cost-cutting Pathway to Campus Enrollment (PaCE) program — I’ve won-dered what is special about university. It must be the fact of being somewhere, thrown into three hours a week of contact with some stranger who challenges you and 
prods you, with peers who anger and im-
press you; from physical and personal alien-ation, from temporary community in a state of suburban sprawl and faceless highway. But most of my classes have been awful.
In my Victorian novel class, kids would 
pull up SparkNotes on their laptops every single Wednesday before the quiz. In ad-vanced poetry workshop, a student scoffed 
that she would never read Milton. No male 
English major looked up what magical re-alism meant before opening his mouth. In German, a student bitching about her test grade couldn’t remember how to say Thurs-day. My semi-sentient calculus and chem-istry peers all expected to be physicians. In my French senior seminar, a girl couldn’t resist (darting her eyes around) clicking on a Thought Catalog “hottest sex stories” piece.
In a current history course, the 
bushy-tailed student to my left is 
still on Facebook, bright and early 
in the front row. In another, I’m impressed by students’ rapt atten-tion as they stream football. I’m tickled particularly pink by the students in my Holocaust studies 
courses that don’t give a shit.
It’s not just their fault. Many of my pro-
fessors have made laughably scanty effort, 
content to drill on rather than launch discus-
sions and to recite PowerPoints rather than synthesize. I recall an advanced Spanish lit-erature seminar with multiple choice ques-tions like: Which of the following choices is not a theme of such-and-such story? Are you kidding me?
And so the library has spiraled into a 
hellhole where girls tutor their dumb boy-
friends about what French New Wave is, 
guys pop Addy and upperclassmen ask li-brarians how to check out a book. The other week, some kids tossed the pigskin in the vestibule (#itsucksuf). With every dumb hashtag of the UF Rising campaign, UF seems to put more and more emphasis on community, sports and tech oriented mea-sures of being a good Gator. Hence the kids 
I heard on a bus proclaim, “Literature. God. 
That must be so boring,” and, “I’m an en-gineer. We have to take all the maths: Calc 1, 2, and 3.”  I cannot imagine what it must be like to live each day under the burden of knowing all the maths.
So I’d like to say that with online edu-
cation we are digging our own graves, and turning school into a truly perfunctory 
streaming center for information that may 
as well be torrented. 
I’d like to say that by prioritizing porta-
ble career skills we forget the place of cul-ture, and tacitly endorse the utilitarian logic of Marco Rubio’s “We need more welders.” He strikes me as a real Gator. I’d like to say it’s ill-conceived that the UF Rising materi-als only talk about diabetes, orange crops 
and returns on investment. But I’m wonder-
ing how many of my fellow students cur-rently see the Bachelor’s degree as anything more than a route to middle-class respect-ability.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and 
Spanish senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
Let’s all try a little harder in schoolColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
Emma Green / Alligator
MIRROR IMAGES
Burlesque performer Kitty LaTush, left, gets ready for Maude’s Side Car Bar’s Downtown Drag night 
on Friday. The host of the night, Nicki Mirage, adjusts her makeup behind Kitty.
SUNDAY TO DEC. 16.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Students studying for their biol-
ogy finals won’t be able to do so 
in UF’s law library starting Sunday.
The library will remain open 
only for law students from Sunday 
through Dec. 16, the end of the Col-
lege of Law’s exam period, said As-sociate Dean for Legal Information Claire Germain. Non-law students can use the library for research if they fill out a request form online.
This is the first time the library 
is implementing this policy, Ger-main said. It comes after multiple 
requests this term from law stu-
dents.
Germain said law student ex-
ams are different from undergradu-ate exams because students’ entire grades depend on them. She said good grades are critical to getting a job after graduation.
“Everything hangs on wheth-
er they get a good grade on that exam,” she said. “It’s particularly important for them to have a quiet space to study.”
UF second-year law student Alex Peckham said he understands the reasoning behind the policy but doesn’t think it makes much of a difference.
“It’ll be nice only having law 
students, but I don’t know if it’s necessarily fair,” the 23-year-old said.
But UF third-year law student 
Brian Lawrence said the policy is necessary. He thinks it’s difficult to find a quiet study spot during finals, and undergraduates tend to 
talk in the designated quiet areas.
“It can be a pretty frustrating 
experience, and finals are stress-
ful enough as it is,” the 24-year-old said.  
Chloe Reynolds, a UF criminolo-
gy and political science junior, said she likes to study at the law library because it’s quiet and she can eas-
ily access criminology books.
The 21-year-old said it’s unfor-
tunate undergraduates can’t access 
the library because Library West and Marston Science Library fill up quickly during finals.
“I think it’s only fair that if 
you’re only there to study, you’re not going to talk or make noise,” 
she said. “Other students besides 
law students should be accepted as well.”UF law library only 
open to law students
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
A fig tree stands proud on the Reitz North 
Lawn, and now students will know what it 
is.
The fig tree is one of six plants on campus 
that Gators Reaching Out With Botany iden-tified with laminated signs this month. The group labeled them with fun facts to draw 
students’ attention to the diversity of plants 
on campus. This term, they’re trying to keep the signs from disappearing. In Spring, the signs vanished within a few days of being posted.
Zach Guignardi, last year’s GROW Bot-
any president, said the idea to label plants around campus last Spring came from want-ing to educate students about them. But the 
signs in some of the more visited areas of campus, like bus stops, started disappearing, 
the 22-year-old said.
“Hopefully the signs stay a little bit lon-
ger this year,” the Colorado State University 
botany master’s student said.
The group labeled an agave plant outside 
Hume Hall, a silky oak near the McCarty 
bus stop, an oleander near the chemistry lab building, a cycad near Pugh Hall and a fig 
tree and Spanish Moss on the Reitz North 
Lawn.
Abigail Hummel, the current GROW Bot-
any president, said the group will be adding 
about a dozen more signs in Spring.
“We wanted to do chunks at a time,” the 
UF biology senior said.
The signs are meant to bring attention to 
the plants because people tend to care about animals more than plants, Hummel, 21, said.
“It’s worth noticing, and it’s worth caring 
about,”she said.UF plants get name tags 
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Cycads, which have been around since the dinosaurs, are labeled across from Pugh 
Hall. GROW Botany labeled six plants around campus on Nov. 10.
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer
Are genetically modified foods 
safe to eat?
Some UF professors say ge-
netically modified foods are just 
as safe — and as nutritious — as 
their organic counterparts. 
Crops are usually genetically 
modified to increase yield or re-sist plant diseases, according to 
the World Health Organization. 
“There have been studies 
where scientists compared the biochemistry of conventional and organic food, and there have been no significant differences in nutritional values,” said Thomas Colquhoun, a UF plant biotech-nology professor.
The public generally dislikes the idea of genetically modified foods, Colquhoun said. 
He attributes this to the idea 
that using natural products is best. “The sun is natural, but it still 
can give you melanoma or kill you in the desert,” he said.
The organic-food industry 
perpetuates the idea that geneti-cally modified foods are unsafe because it gives it more business, Colquhoun said.
Mandi Kastrinos, a commu-
nications coordinator for the UF horticultural science department, said she believes genetically mod-ified organisms can be beneficial. 
GMOs can yield a larger crop, which will be needed to support a continually growing population.
“By 2050, it is predicted that 
there will be 9 billion people in the world,” Kastrinos said. “In or-der to meet that demand, we will need to produce 70 percent more food.”    
People in developing countries 
may also benefit from GMO tech-nology, Colquhoun said. Food security is low in those areas, meaning there’s not enough food to feed everyone. 
GMOs may not be as bad as you think, UF faculty say
They increase yield
“There have been studies where 
scientists compared the biochemistry 
of conventional and organic food, 
and there have been no significant 
differences in nutritional values.”
Thomas Colquhoun
UF plant biotechnology professorMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Chris DiScenza, a 38-year-old UF civil and coastal engineering 
graduate student, finishes The Freewheel Project’s third annual Cranksgiving alleycat race with Cauchy, his 7-year-old Pomeranian, on Sunday. “He loves the bike more than anything, ” DiScenza said. “He was also registered for the race, so I came in 25th and he tech-nically came in 26th. ”
Take a bite, ride a bike
McShane Ingalls, left, a 20-year-old UF nutritional sciences junior, and Kristen Ratliff, a  21-year-old UF political science senior, eat a vegan Thanksgiving meal on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas on Friday. The Student Ani-mal Alliance provided a lunch of T ofurkey, mashed potatoes, gravy and cookies as well as literature on the importance of going vegan.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator StaffCassie Barrett, a 21-year-old UF sociology and telecom-munication junior, bites into a slice of apple pie on Friday after running in the Florida Running Club’s Thanksgiving Fun Run. Participants were treated to all-you-can-eat pie after competing in a one-mile race.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Ana Fajardo, 22, a Freewheel Project volunteer and organizer of the Cranksgiving food drive and alleycat race, collects food from racers on Sunday to do-nate to the St. Francis House. About 50 people raced and do-nated, she said.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator StaffHappy
ThanksgivingBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
NW townhome to share. Large master suite, attached full bath and adjoining, sep. living/office. Maid service, cable, and ALL utilities included. Pool/tennis. $595/mo plus security. 352-281-3227.    11-30-15-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    11-25-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
MOVING- MUST EMPTY STORAGE
On 34th St (look for signs between Archer 
& Williston Rds) hand-painted Fenton glass 
chickens, single brand new bed, new futon, 
dishes, all kinds of houseware objects, beau -
tiful jewelry, linens, clothes.Saturday, 9am-4pm. 352-210-9748          11-
20-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY12 Autos
ACROSS
1 Popeye’s
nemesis
6 Electrolux, briefly
9 Nos. on beach
lotion labels
13 Pachelbel
composition
14 Tel Aviv’s
country: Abbr.
15 Opera highlight
16 Small thicket
17 Online
matchmaker
19 “Look before 
you __”
21 School course
with slides
22 =25 Lawyer’s charge26 Carry with effort27 Partner of hither28 For the lady
29 Inlaid designs
32 Apple music
players
34 “U Can’t Touch
This” rapper
36 Web destinations38 Worded42 They’re usually
divided intoscenes
43 Wisecracking
West
44 MLB’s Indians,
on scoreboards
45 __ Vegas46 Looked ready to
fight
50 Obscure from
view, as in an
eclipse
52 Continually
53 See 42-Down55 Vacant58 San __: Riviera
resort
59 Ambient music
pioneer Brian
60 Bete __61 Tijuana three62 Athletic center63 Pig’s sniffer
DOWN
1 Secretly keep in
the email loop,for short
2 Philosopher __-
tzu3 Disconnects from
the outlet
4 Where sailors go
5 Ryan or Tatum
6 Compete
7 Hearth
receptacle
8 Online guy with a
list
9 O.T. prophet
10 Reviewed for
errors
11 Piano players?12 Make a proposer
smile
18 Director Howard
20 Gives a pep talk,
with “up”
22 Stately tree
23 Status __24 Slugger Sammy28 Bar mitzvah
dance
30 Bill totals: Abbr.
31 Cocktail rocks
32 Announcement
upon arrival
33 For each35 Movie-rating org.36 Like large
reptiles,compared tosmaller ones37 “My treat”
39 Many a
November birth,
to astrologers
40 Helper for Santa
41 Dict. entry
42 With 53-Across,
physics Nobelistwho devised theformula thatbegins 17-, 22-,34- and 46-Across43 Problem on the
Caine
46 Drunkard
47 Captain of the
Caine
48 Coin toss call
49 Exorcism target
51 General __
chicken
54 __ de plume
56 Capote
nickname
57 To this point
By Clement McKay©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/23/1511/23/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 23, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. In 2014, Raul Ibanez became the 
oldest player in Royals history to hit 
a triple (age 42). Who had been the 
oldest?
2. Between 2006-2015, how many 
major-league teams won at least 100 
games in a season?
3. When was the last time the Dallas 
Cowboys were in an NFC Champion-ship Game?
4. Name three of the five freshmen 
to win the NCAA Tournament’s Most 
Outstanding Player award in men’s 
basketball.
5. When was the last time before 
2015 that the first five games of the NHL Stanley Cup Finals were each 
decided by one goal?
6. Who is the only athlete to win 
a medal in six consecutive Winter 
Olympics?
7. When was the last time before 
2015 that LSU won the NCAA Divi-sion I men’s golf championship?
Answers
1. Bob Boone was 41 when he hit a 
triple in 1989.
2. Four — the Angels (100 in 2008), 
Yankees (103 in ‘09), Phillies (102 in 
‘11) and Cardinals (100 in ‘15).
3. It was after the 1995 season.
4. Arnie Ferrin (Utah, 1944); Pervis 
Ellison (Louisville, ‘86); Carmelo 
Anthony (Syracuse, 2003); Antho-ny Davis (Kentucky, ‘12); and Tyus Jones (Duke, ‘15).
5. The 1951 Stanley Cup Finals 
between Montreal and Toronto.
6. Armin Zoggeler of Italy in the 
luge event (1994-2014).
7. It was 1955.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 23, 2015 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 13 Wanted
ACROSS
1 Amuse to the hilt
16 Goth is a
subgenre of it
17 Tax inequity
18 Blotter name19 These, overseas20 Film lioness
23 Financial
shellacking
25 T-__
28 Where surfers
look for bargains
30 With 34-Across,
China’s locale
34 See 35-Across35 Logician friend
of Einstein
36 Give (out)37 Chinese dish
eponym
38 Swansea-born39 Got used up,
with “out”
40 Scary St.
Bernard offiction
42 Beyond chunky43 Dough
dispensers
44 Try45 Not seen as
frequently
46 Amphora, e.g.47 Requires49 Dino, __ & Billy:
’60s band thatincluded sons oftwo musical
celebs
51 Sentry’s stint
54 Is charismatic58 Slide rules, for
example
64 Borrower’s
protection
65 Some emcees
DOWN
1 Monastery figure2 It has blue-
striped jets
3 Abruzzi bell
town
4 Tara feature5 1974 pension
plan legislation
6 Words with stew
and pickle
7 Bug8 __-Chapelle:
historic Paris
church
9 Track advantage
10 “__ Got a
Secret”
11 Belief12 Surprised at the
party
13 “Dateline NBC”
anchor Lester
14 Prefix with -
plasm
15 “The __ the
limit!”
21 Investigator’s
data gathering
22 Low life23 Consecrated
24 Attendant to a
man
25 Baker’s 
quantity
26 Send forth27 Spanish wine
region
29 Freud
contemporary
31 Inner tube?
32 Verbal attacks33 It may be
perfect
41 Forecasters43 Flies
48 Insufficient50 “On the Beach”
novelist
51 What early
arrivals often
have to do
52 Cornerstone
word
53 “So long!”55 Moments
56 “Dies __”57 Recipe abbr.
59 Special
someone
60 Show with many
spin-offs
61 USAF
commissioning
prog.
62 He played
Clubber Lang in
“Rocky III”
63 Links figure
By Bruce Venzke
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/21/1511/21/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, November 21, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
IT/Customer Service Rep for DentalSoftware Company. M-F 8-5Competitive Pay and Benefits.Computer skills is a must.Send Resumè: dave@floridaprobe.com11-20-15-5-14
Church seeking pianist/worship leader for Sunday morning traditional evangelical (hymn-based) service.Email interest tofirstnaz5020@cfcoxmail.com.    11-20-15-5-14Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    11-20-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    11-20-1-14
ATTN: DriversAverage $1000+ p/wkFleet Avg 1.5 yrs, 100% APU$500 Holiday BonusHome For Christmas!CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com    11-20-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a driver for Stevens Transport! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! New drivers can earn $800+ per week! PAID LOCAL CDL TRAINING! 1-888-743-1573 drive4stevens.com    11-20-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429   11-20-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    11-20-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    11-20-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    11-20-1-16
Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save! Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive  Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923    11-20-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    11-20-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
19 Connections 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted Headline
Story description Pg#
A pair of redshirt seniors on 
coach Paul Spangler's men's cross country team raced at the NCAA Championship on Saturday. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators sweep Buckeye Invitational
Throughout the three day competition, the Florida men's and women's 
swimming and diving teams ended the Buckeye Invitational with 13 wins, 12 U.S. Olympic Trial-qualifying times, 10 NCAA 'A' cuts and 26 'B' cuts. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF freshman wide receiver Antonio Callaway gets tackled following a punt return during Florida's 20-14 overtime win over Florida 
Atlantic on Saturday at Ben Hill GriffinStadium. 
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
While the rest of his team’s energy level 
was comparable to that of dead seafood, as 
coach Jim McElwain put it, wide receiver An-tonio Callaway was quite alive on Saturday.
Against Florida Atlantic, the freshman con-tinued his season of big plays, returning a punt for 52 yards in the second quarter and con-
necting with quarterback Treon Harris on a 53-
yard touchdown reception in the third quarter.
Although the punt return resulted in no 
points thanks to a missed 33-yard field goal by Austin Hardin, the touchdown catch proved pivotal in a game in which every point was needed just to send the contest into overtime.It’s nothing new for the freshman, who 
seemingly steps up with a gashing catch or re-
turn whenever a spark is needed.
“He’s a true legitimate SEC ball player,” 
McElwain said. “He loves to play the game and 
it’s contagious out there. 
“He energizes people, man. The guy smiles. 
It’s awesome. He’s got life. He’s got energy Freshman receiver giving life to Gators offense SOCCER
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Following Florida’s 2-1 loss 
to Duke in the third round of the NCAA tournament Sunday, coach Becky Burleigh opened her post-
game press con-
ference admit-
ting that in her 21 years at UF, 
the final loss still hurts the most. 
“It’s always 
tough to end the season,” Bur-leigh said. 
“It never, ever gets any easier.”At the hands of a high-powered 
Duke offense — it put up 16 shots compared with UF’s nine — the Gators (19-4-1, 8-2-1 Southeast-ern Conference) found themselves gasping for some last-second magic to try and overcome the one-goal deficit late in the game. 
Florida amped up its personnel, 
subbing in offense for defense in the final minutes. 
On a last-minute set piece near 
midfield, Burleigh sent up her en-tire team, including goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese, to try to even up the game and force overtime. 
But Harry Houdini never showed 
up with a trick up his sleeve for the Florida offense, and the 2015 sea-son came to a not-so-magical end.
The first goal on the day — and 
the Gators’ lone goal — came off UF falls in 
Round of 16 to Duke
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
In its second game of a weekend back-
to-back, Florida faced its first ranked team 
of the season and was unable to keep up.
The Gators fell to No. 21 Purdue 85-
70 on Sunday night in the championship 
game of the Naismith Memorial Hall of 
Fame Tip-Off at the Mohegan Sun Arena in Uncasville, Connecticut.
At the 8:38 mark of the second half, 
Florida was down by just three, 63-60, but an impending 22-3 scoring run by Purdue sealed the win for the Boilermakers.
“Disappointed in our defensive effort. 
Offensively I thought that we played from behind probably with too much urgency, too hungry to hit home runs in a comeback situation,” coach Mike White said. 
“Defensively I thought a lot of it had to do with Purdue just being damn good.”
A combination of poor shooting by Flor-
ida (3-1) and strong rebounding and three-point shooting by the Boilermakers led to the Gators’ first loss of the season. 
The No. 21 team in the country’s talent 
down the stretch proved to be too much for a young Florida team to handle.
John Egbunu had 19 points and seven 
rebounds while Dorian Finney-Smith and 
KeVaughn Allen added 17 and 12 points re-
spectively, but Florida shot just 40 percent from the field and 30 percent from beyond the arc.
Finney-Smith was named to the all-tournament team with his performance, 
and his 13-point game on Saturday when 
the Gators defeated Saint Joseph’s 74-63. 
The Gators’ win in that game sent them 
to Sunday’s tournament championship against the Boilermakers.
Purdue had five players score in double 
figures, with senior guard Rapheal Davis leading the way with 18. 
The Boilermakers (5-0) showed consid-
erable long-range ability throughout the game, with six players who scored from beyond the arc. Florida men's basketball handed first loss of season SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15SEE CALLAWAY,  PAGE 15
Burleigh
It is White's first defeat at UF 14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
Gators a 14-0 lead and the game-
winner to McGee in the opening 
overtime possession.
But nestled between the two 
scoring passes was a six-drive 
stretch where the sophomore 
threw five incompletions, was 
sacked twice and turned the ball 
over twice.
The second turnover came on 
a strip-sack by FAU defensive end 
Trey Hendrickson in the fourth quarter that the Owls recovered in the end zone to tie the game 
at 14-14.
Overall, the Gators mustered 
just 252 yards of offense, their 
lowest total since their Southeast-ern Conference opener against 
Kentucky on Sept. 19.
It was also Florida’s lowest 
point total against a non-Power 
Five conference team since also 
putting up just 20 in the loss to 
Georgia Southern in 2013.
“I don’t think anybody on that 
side of the ball should be real happy with how they’ve played,” 
UF coach Jim McElwain said. 
“The team we played took it to 
us. So you know what, here’s the 
key from here: How are you going 
to respond?”
This Florida team has respond-
ed well after tough games this year.
After losing on the road to 
LSU, the Gators followed up with 
a 27-3 win against Georgia.
After needing Austin Hardin to 
hit a last-second field goal to hold off Vanderbilt, Florida traveled to South Carolina and put up more 
than 400 yards of offense and left 
with a 10-point victory.
Now, McElwain is hoping the 
Gators can respond from a lack-
luster game against a two-win 
FAU team when his team plays No. 14 Florida State on Saturday.
There’s a lot riding on the 
matchup between the Gators and the Seminoles.
It’s the first top-15 contest be-
tween the teams since 2012.
It’s a chance for Florida to re-
main in the College Football Play-off hunt.
It’s Senior Night, the last time 
UF’s 17 seniors will play at The 
Swamp.
Florida has shown its potential 
time and time again this season.
Another game like Saturday’s 
against Florida Atlantic would throw it all away.
“I see a sparkle here and 
there,” McElwain said. 
“And we just got some guys 
on this team that refuse to take 
off the governor, and that ain’t the way to go through life, man. Seize the moment. Be excited. En-joy what you’re doing. Enjoy the 
people and company you’re doing 
it with. And affect them the way you want to be affected.”FOOTBALL,  from pg1Gators looking to correct mistakes before Saturday’s FSU game
LEFT:
A drenched Florida football 
coach Jim McElwain (center) walks off the field accompa-nied by his wife Karen (left) af-ter Florida’s overtime victory against Florida Atlantic. McEl-wain became the first UF coach in program history to win 10 games in his inaugural season as a Gators head football coach.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffLEFT: UF players celebrate with 
sophomore cornerback Jalen T abor during the second half. In addition to his interception, T a-bor had a season-high five pass breakups. On the season, T abor has a team-best 14 pass break-ups and a team-high-tying four interceptions this season
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
BELOW: UF defensive line-
man T aven Bryan (93) returns a fumble to the FAU 2-yard line during the second half against Florida Atlantic. The Gators scored their first touchdown of the game — a 1-yard rush by Kelvin T aylor — two plays later.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@Brianlee_17 
In the final Southeastern Confer-
ence match of the season, the Gators 
volleyball team turned in one of its most disappointing performances. 
No. 14 Florida blew a 2-0 set lead 
to collapse against conference-lead-ing Texas A&M in five sets, 25-20, 25-19, 22-25, 22-25, 11-15, on Sun-day afternoon in College Station. 
The defeat marks the second time 
this season the Gators have let a 2-0 lead slip away. They lost in similar fashion on Sept. 30 against Missouri. 
Florida (21-6, 13-5 SEC) got off to 
an early 14-9 advantage after trading points back-and-forth with Texas A&M (21-6, 14-2 SEC) in the early going. They were then able to hold that lead and seal a first-set win with relative ease. 
The second set unfolded in a sim-
ilar manner, with Florida building a small lead midway and holding on 
to establish a comfortable 2-0 set ad-
vantage. 
Having swept Texas A&M at 
home just over a month ago in one of its most dominant wins this sea-son, Florida seemed poised to cruise to another easy victory. But the Aggies had other plans. Texas A&M fought took an early 
third set lead and led for the major-ity of the set. Florida was only able to take the lead once, when a 6-0 run saw the Gators go from down 10-13 to up 16-13. 
However, the momentum was 
short-lived. 
With the set tied at 20 points 
apiece, Texas A&M went on a 5-2 
run to capture the third set, 25-22. 
Florida never led in the fourth 
set. 
Texas A&M was consistently 
able to hold the Gators at an arm’s 
length. 
Every time Florida got within 
striking distance, the Aggies were able to pull away and cushion their 
lead, eventually winning again 25-
22 and forcing a decisive fifth set. 
With their lead evaporated and 
their backs against the wall, the Gators failed to respond when it mattered most. 
In the final set, Florida once 
again was never able to establish a lead. 
An attack error by senior outside 
hitter Ziva Recek proved to be the final nail in the coffin for the Gators, giving the Aggies a 15-11 set win and ending the match. While sophomore middle blocker 
Rhamat Alhassan had a stellar game — finishing with 16 kills and six blocks on .577 hitting — much of 
the team struggled offensively. 
Junior right side hitter Alex 
Holston and sophomore outside hit-
ter Carli Snyder hit .184 and .192, respectively. 
Texas A&M outplayed Florida 
defensively as well, out-blocking the Gators 15-14. 
Florida fell to 3-4 this season 
when trailing its opponent in digs. 
The Gators had 58 digs compared 
to the Aggies’ 61.
Florida finished its 2015 cam-
paign 13-5 in conference play, with the most losses and worst winning percentage since coach Mary Wise took the helm of the program in 1991. 
This season, the Gators are also 
a concerning 0-5 in five-set matches, a record that inevitably raises ques-tions about this teams mental tough-ness. 
If Florida is to achieve its goals 
of success in the upcoming SEC and NCAA tournaments, they will need to work through obvious issues in 
late-game situations. 
The Gators wrap up their regu-
lar season schedule this Friday, the 
final home game for the seniors, against LIU Brooklyn at 3 p.m. on the SEC Network+. Gators collapse against Texas A&M
and that’s what we need to get.”
Callaway now has 10 plays of 30 yards 
or more between receptions and punt re-turns on the season and five such plays of 50 yards or more — a staggering number 
for someone in his first year playing college 
football.
Nevertheless, his teammates still feel 
like he doesn’t always get the credit he de-serves.
“I feel like people sleep on him a lot,” 
defensive back Jalen Tabor said. “I feel like he’s the best freshman receiver in the coun-try just because he does so much. 
“He can play inside, outside, you can 
go deep or screen game, and he’s even in the return game. I feel like he’s the best all around football player as a freshman.”
If not, he’s close.Callaway ranks third in the Southeastern 
Conference in punt return yards with 343 and is tops among freshmen.In receiving, he’s 16th in the conference 
with 541 yards and third among freshmen, 
behind Texas A&M’s Christian Kirk (871) 
and Alabama’s Calvin Ridley (701).
But both Kirk and Ridley have more than 
60 receptions each on the season, while Cal-laway has just 27.
Still, those 27 catches have been enough 
to give Callaway the second-most receiv-ing yards in a season by a true freshman in school history, passing Jacquez Green (531) 
on Saturday.
The freshman now trails Reidel Anthony 
(615) by just 74 yards for the school record 
and will have at least three games to do so.
Given that he’s averaging nearly 50 yards 
a game, the mark is well within reach.
But for the teammates who see him in 
practice every day, breaking records isn’t all that surprising.
“He’s a big time receiver,” tight end Jake 
McGee said. “He’s showing it this year. He’ll continue to show it.
“It’s really not that surprising if you’re 
around him each day, what he’s doing.”CALLAWAY,  from pg13He has 343 punt return yards
the head of freshman midfielder Sarah Troccoli. 
Off a corner from senior Lau-
ren Smith, Troccoli, standing at the 
near post, used her 5-foot-11 stat-
ure to get a head on Smith’s cross to flick it over Duke goalkeeper EJ Proctor.
The goal, which was the first 
scored against Duke (13-5-4, 4-3-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) in the tournament, was Troccoli’s second in as many games.
Florida’s final lead of the season 
lasted just eight minutes and 22 sec-onds, as the Blue Devils answered with a header of their own.
Off a ball that junior defender 
Christina Gibbons booted high into the box from around 15 yards be-yond the box, junior defender Re-becca Quinn nestled a headed ball 
into the near right post to bring the 
game all square at 1.
Going into the halftime locker room, the Gators were in dire need of an answer on offense. 
However, the only answer that 
revealed itself in the second half was wearing a blue Duke jersey.
Ten minutes into the second 
half, the Blue Devils’ Toni Payne in-tercepted a UF pass and took a cou-ple of long dribbles down the field.
She eventually found sopho-
more Casey Martinez standing just 
outside the right side of the box, 
and delivered a cross to unmarked midfielder Taylor Racioppi who then delivered a shot near post past a diving Marckese. 
With 35 minutes to work with, 
the Gators needed to find a way to level up the match. 
They outshot Duke 5-4 following 
the goal, but none of the attempts were enough to extend a season that was in desperate need of being saved. 
“This is a dent for this program,” 
Burleigh said. “This is going to help us, in the big picture, go farther.”
With a team that was essentially divided into two — 17 freshmen and 15 non-freshmen — at the sea-
son’s start and got off to an ugly 
start to the SEC schedule in a 2-1 loss at home to Texas A&M on Sept. 10, Florida exceeded expectations with its deep run in the national tournament.
“Looking back on this year,” ju-
nior forward Savannah Jordan said. 
“Seeing where we started, the 
expectations that people had for this team, and how far we’ve come, I’m really proud of everyone.”
SOCCER,  from pg13Duke hadn't given up a goal in the NCAA tourney until UF scoredPurdue shot 42 percent from the three-
point line and 50 percent from the field. Prior to Sunday, Florida was giving up just 52.7 points per game, but Purdue was bet-ter than any team the Gators had seen.
Purdue’s size also hurt the Gators in the 
paint, as the Boilermakers outrebounded Florida 43-34 with 12 offensive rebounds. 
Freshman 6-foot-9 forward Caleb 
Swanigan had 12 points and six rebounds while sophomore 7-foot-2 center Isaac Haas scored 11.
“We knew those bigs were going to get 
a certain amount of work done and they 
were going to do a certain amount of dam-
age,” White said. 
"But to give up some of the other looks 
... it led to other guys getting going from three, now you’ve got that in addition to those bigs and how talented they are, it was just too much to overcome.”
Florida’s overall shooting performance did improve, however, from its win against Saint Joseph’s on Saturday. 
In that game against the Hawks, the 
Gators shot a lowly 38.2 percent from the field and just 25 percent from three. 
The Gators also limited their number of 
turnovers to seven on Sunday, while they had been averaging 14.7 per game this season.
Florida will return home with two days 
of practice before a Wednesday matchup 
with Vermont and then a Friday game 
against Florida Gulf Coast. 
White knows it’s still very early in the 
season, but that there are adjustments his team needs to make now so they aren’t dealing with them later when the level of competition increases.
“We’ve just got to get better,” White 
said. “The one thing about this team, we 
have potential ... but that potential isn’t 
going to get us anything.” 
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report.HOOPS,  from pg13UF was outrebounded 43-34Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan swings for the kill during Florida's 3-0 win over 
Alabama on Nov. 13 in the O'Connell Center. 
UF's 0-5 in five set matches16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015
