We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 146 THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
Florida athletics department 
entering transition period
UF replaced three coaches in the last 
six months, pg. 17
Police looking for suspect in homicide
It happened Monday in the Pine Ridge neighborhood , pg. 3
Darts and Laurels
North Korea, UF food bank and the heat are highlighted, pg. 6The Avenue is back!
For updates on bands performing, local features and the latest installment of the Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game , see pgs. 9-12.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Ready for Rain
Humble Pie Wood-Fired Pizza employees Thomas Jaworski, 26, and Anastasiya Zo-
lotukhin, 21, secure part of the restaurant’s tent at the Union Street Farmers Market as it begins to rain Wednesday. The market takes place each Wednesday from 4 to 7 p.m. at the corner of Southwest First Avenue and Southwest First Street.
PROFILE
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Starting July 1, Laura Ann Rosenbury 
will ofﬁ  cially take her place as the ﬁ  rst 
permanent female dean of UF’s Levin Col-
lege of Law in the college’s 106-year his-
tory.
Rosenbury, from northern Indiana, 
moved to the New York suburbs her ju-
nior year of high school. It was then she 
met a guidance counselor who pushed her to apply to schools she never even con-sidered.
She graduated from Harvard-Radcliffe 
College with a bachelor’s in women’s studies before taking a couple years off to travel in Europe.
Rosenbury then returned to New York, 
where she met a handful of people with law degrees who were making a difference outside the courtroom at the National Planned Parenthood ofﬁ  ces in New York City.
They affected policy and gave advice, 
offering solutions to problems without the traditional courtroom.
“That’s when I realized you could do 
a lot with a law degree,” Rosenbury said.
She graduated from Harvard Law 
School in 1997.
      
Following ﬁ  ve years of law practice, 
Rosenbury joined Washington University Law School’s faculty, becoming vice dean 
from 2010-2012.
The school is located in St. Louis, about 
20 minutes from Ferguson, Missouri, an 
area that was peppered by protests that 
followed the fatal shooting of Michael 
Brown.
Rosenbury didn’t hesitate to modify 
her Fall lessons, teaching her ﬁ  rst-year property law students how property law 
perpetuates forms of racial inequality by racial segregation.
Given the situation in Missouri, Rosen-
bury chose to put theory into practice, 
demonstrating to her students that prop-
erty law can also be used to challenge ra-
cial inequality.
“Law can be used as a tool to maintain 
the status quo,” Rosenbury said, “or it can 
be used as a tool to produce change.”
      
Original. Creative. Provocative. Smart. 
These are words Rosenbury’s colleague 
Susan Appleton used to describe Rosen-
bury’s academic success and teachings.
The two have worked together over the 
last 13 years and often collaborated on writings. 
Appleton said she has always admired 
Rosenbury’s ﬁ  erce advocacy for social in-
justice.
“She is a very original and creative 
thinker,” said Appleton, a professor of 40 years who was on the committee that in-terviewed Rosenbury. “She brings a fresh perspective and new ways of thinking.”
Rachel Mance, Rosenbury’s assistant 
of two years, said that over an eight-year period and about 25 professors, she con-sidered Rosenbury to be one of the best 
she’s worked with. 
Her open-door policy allowed her to be 
as accessible to everyone as much as pos-
sible, Mance said.
She’ll take on multiple projects at once, 
Mance said, but she handles them well. While her teachings aren’t exclusive to Future UF law dean 
prioritizes students
IT AIMS TO EMPOWER CYCL YING 
CULTURE.
By Chris Watkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
One man wants to turn Gainesville into a 
bicycling hub.
Ryan Aulton, 33, is the executive director 
of the Freewheel Project, a nonproﬁ  t, low-cost community bike shop that aims to em-
power the culture of cycling through educa-tion, accessibility and infrastructure, he said.
On Sunday starting at 5 p.m., the proj-
ect will hold its open house. The races, the ﬁ  rst of what Aulton hopes to be a weekly endeavor, will feature a $5 entry fee, with all proceeds going toward the winner.
“I want to encourage all kinds of cycling,” Aulton said. “If you’re on a bike, we want to support you.”
The shop, located at 618 S. Main St., will 
employ a full-time mechanic and offer a col-lective membership, which will give mem-bers access to tools, a bicycle library and a dedicated shared workspace and event space, he said.
If a person wants to check out a cargo 
bike to run errands, the membership will give members access to one. It works much the same as a library, he said.  Bicycle shop open house hopes to encourage GNV cyclingSEE LAW,  PAGE 4“Law can be used as a tool to maintain 
the status quo or it can be used as a 
tool to produce change.”
Laura Ann Rosenbury
UF law dean elect
SEE FREEWHEEL,  PAGE 5“If you’re on a bike, we want to support 
you.”
Ryan Aulton
Executive DirectorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 146
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  68°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Police report officer-involved 
shooting outside Florida mall
AVENTURA, Fla. (AP) — A po-lice officer shot and wounded a suspected car thief who authori-
ties say refused to stop at a South 
Florida shopping mall parking garage.Aventura police Sgt. Chris 
Goranitis said a man was shot 
early Wednesday afternoon 
outside the Aventura Mall. His 
wounds weren’t considered life-threatening. Goranitis said the public was not in any danger, and no suspects were at large.Goranitis said the unidentified man, allegedly driving a stolen car, was shot in the arm after re-fusing an officer’s orders to stop. 
The would-be thief allegedly 
tried to run over the officer and crashed into parked cars before he was shot.A woman riding in the car was not injured.The mall located north of Miami remained open for business.
Florida toddler dies after being 
left in hot car, police sayLAKE CITY, Fla. (AP) — A 
16-month-old north Florida girl 
died after her father left her in the car, state investigators said Wednesday.Columbia County Sheriff’s depu-ties responded to a 911 call Tuesday afternoon and found the child was unresponsive.The Florida Department of Law Enforcement identified the child’s mother as Wendy Kwon, an as-
sistant state attorney, and her fa-
ther as Young Kwon, an assistant public defender.Both are employees of Florida’s Third Judicial Circuit, which cov-ers a number of counties in the northern part of the state.The father discovered the child when he returned home from 
work in the afternoon and real-
ized he’d forgotten to drop her at daycare that morning, officials said.The FDLE did not know which state attorney’s office would han-dle the prosecution, should crimi-nal charges be filed.
Hearse with flag-draped coffin left 
in parking lotNEW PORT RICHEY, Fla. (AP) — Two Florida hearse drivers have been fired after they stopped at a doughnut shop with a flag-draped coffin in the vehicle on the way to a funeral and an out-raged man sent a video to a local 
veterans group.
As first reported by WFLA-TV, Rob Carpenter spotted the hearse in the parking lot of a New Port Richey Dunkin’ Donuts on Tuesday with its curtains open and the coffin visible.In the coffin was the body of 84-year-old Lt. Col. Jesse Coleman, a decorated soldier who served in Korea and Vietnam. The hearse was transporting him 
from Veterans Funeral Care to his 
funeral.Carpenter confronted the driver and sent images to VeteranWarriors. The group post-ed the images to Facebook. They have since been taken down.Funeral home director Jim Rudolph says he fired the men.
Got something going on?Want to see it in this space? Send an 
email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publica-tion in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please keep them 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Alec Carver, Jordan McPherson,   
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona 
       
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police are 
investigating a homicide that 
occurred Monday night in the Pine Ridge neighborhood.
At about 10:15 p.m., GPD 
received multiple 911 calls regarding a shooting in front of 2425 NW 57th Place, according to a press release. 
Reports said a man was shot and 
the gunman had run away.
Ofﬁ  cers arrived shortly after and 
found James L. “JoJo” Rentz, 37, on the ground with gunshot wounds, according to the press release. Police attempted to give him emergency ﬁ  rst aid before he was transported to UF Health Shands Hospital, where he died from the gunshot wounds.
Rentz lived at the address and 
was reportedly returning from a nearby store when the shooting occurred, according to the release.
Police found multiple shell 
casings at the scene. A police dog 
searched the scene and found a 
pistol near the entrance of the Pine Ridge neighborhood, according to the release. The gun was fully loaded and believed to be the one that killed Rentz.
As of now, there is no 
information pinpointing a possible suspect, according to the release, 
but ofﬁ  cers are working to ﬁ  nd the 
shooter. GPD will increase patrols in the area.
The kind of pistol used in the 
shooting is unusual, according to the release, and police are asking the public to reach out with information that could help solve the case.
Those with information are asked 
to call the GPD Detective Division at 352-393-7670 or CrimeSTOPPERS at 352-372-7867 if they wish to remain anonymous.CRIME
Police looking for 
suspect in homicideA RESOLUTION OPPOSING 
GUNS ON CAMPUS 
FAILED.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Debate regarding guns on 
campus highlighted the ﬁ  rst UF 
Student Senate meeting of the 
Summer on Tuesday.
At the meeting, the Senate saw 
most of its time revolve around 
the ﬁ  rst reading of Resolution 
2015-1029 — Resolution 
Opposing Guns on Campus — which was proposed by District E Sen. Rodolfo Perez Cordero.
The resolution failed, with 
the majority of the Senate voting against it.
Perez Cordero said he wrote 
the resolution as a result of 
House Bill 4005, which would 
allow those with a permit for concealed carry to have weapons or ﬁ  rearms on college or university facilities if passed.He cited personal experiences 
regarding people losing their guns at the mall and the fact that an approved conceal carry law would make it difﬁ  cult for police 
to determine who is a victim and 
a suspect in certain situations.
“He’s going to have no choice 
but to shoot at the victim and the suspect because his primary job is to stop the shooting all 
together,” Perez Cordero said. 
“This is a situation we do not want to put our ofﬁ  cers in.”
University Police Department 
Capt. Jeff Holcomb spoke during the meeting alongside Perez 
Cordero expressing his support 
for the senator’s resolution, citing the lack of long-term or repetitive training required to received a concealed carry 
permit in Florida.
“The concern from our 
department is you’ve got people 
on our campus that don’t go 
through this length of in-depth 
training, but they’re carrying possibly the same kind of ﬁ  rearms as we are,” Holcomb said. 
Four rounds of pro-con debate 
showcased a divided Senate on the issue.
And while Perez Cordero 
did receive some support, the resolution’s opposition had the upper hand.
Sen. Denae Campanale said 
senators should be careful 
when voting about issues such 
as concealed carry because their votes are on behalf of the Student Body and not just their 
own personal views.
“Because this is such a 
hot-button issue, it could be 
possibly dangerous to make assumptions,” she said.UF Student Senate debates guns
“Because this is such a 
hot-button issue, it could be 
possibly dangerous to make 
assumptions.”
Denae Campanale
student senator4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
one group, Rosenbury is geared 
toward women empowerment and fueling social justice as a whole.
Even with that, Rosenbury has 
always managed to set aside time in order to help out her students.
Rosenbury would wake up ear-
ly every Wednesday to meet with her students at 8 a.m. at a nearby 
coffee shop to discuss anything 
from law practices to networking.
“She does the best she can to 
get back to everyone,” Mance 
said.
      
Provost Joe Glover’s email 
came on April 24 and he and Rosenbury spoke two days later, 
when he offered Rosenbury the 
position as UF’s Levin College of Law dean.
She accepted the offer and will earn a salary of $350,000 per year.
Rosenbury informed her stu-
dents about her leave via email a day before it was ofﬁ  cially an-nounced.
“I wanted the students to hear 
from me that I was leaving the law 
school,” she said.
She offered help with letters of 
recommendation and encouraged 
her students to stay in touch. 
If her students ever needed 
anything, Rosenbury would help in any way she could, an offer she considers to be a norm of the legal profession.
      
Before migrating to The 
Swamp, Rosenbury will travel to Shanghai, China, with Appleton 
for a conference about feminism 
and law in the U.S. and Asia.
Once she returns from her 
travels, Rosenbury said she will also be teaching an online course, something she said she believes is increasingly becoming a great al-
ternative to pursuing higher edu-
cation.
Rosenbury said she’s excited to 
begin working and helping guide the UF law faculty and the Student Body.
“The law school at UF is very 
lucky to have her,” Appleton said. “Being a dean will be a new chal-lenge to her, but I have every conﬁ  dence she will be a great suc-cess.”LAW,  from pg1She will be the irst permanent female 
dean of the UF Levin College of Law
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is Laura Ann Rosenbury, who will become the next dean of 
the UF Levin College of Law on July 1.
“The law school at UF is very 
lucky to have her. Being a 
dean will be a new challenge 
to her, but I have every 
conidence she will be a great 
success.”
Susan Appleton
Law professor at Washington 
University in St. LouisTHURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
John Hursh / Alligator 
One More Round
Clockwise: UF students Cody Lammer, 21, Will Warden, 22, Kyle Olson, 18, and Mo Shatara, 23, play domi-
noes on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday. Warden said they wanted to ﬁ  nish the game before it rained.
The membership will cost $50 
and 10 volunteer hours a year, he said. Members will also have ac-cess to bike storage, lockers and 
a shower.
The 12,000-square-foot build-
ing is located in downtown 
Gainesville.
The Freewheel Project will 
only utilize about 3,500 square 
feet of the building, he said. He plans to sublease the two large 
units that share a 2,000-square-
foot common area and two small-
er stand-alone ofﬁ  ces to make the 
project completely self-sustain-able, he said.
“I think it is something that is 
beneﬁ  cial to the city,” said Mi-
chael Mcaleer, 32, a UF sopho-
more graphic design student, an avid cyclist and a sales associate and mechanic at Bikes and More.
Mcaleer said Gainesville has 
a great cycling community and anything that helps people enjoy or learn about cycling is helpful.
He said that a program like the 
Freewheel Project will not only beneﬁ  t people who are passion-
ate about bicycle riding but also 
those who ride a bike because it 
is the only means of transporta-tion they can afford.
They constantly see customers 
who cannot afford to have their bicycle working properly, he said. A program like this one would be 
a good tool for those people and a 
great way to encourage safe bicy-
cling in Gainesville, Mcaleer said.FREEWHEEL,  from pg 1It’s located in downtown
Event times at 
the open house
5 p.m.: Pre-race laps and regis-tration — $5 to participate
6 p.m.:  Fastest lap time trial in 
four categories (Fastest Guy, Fastest Gal, Master 35+, Fixed 
Gear)
8 p.m.: Live music (Lineup to be 
determined)The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Alright so it’s been almost a week since Summer classes 
began and the rubber hit the road, so to speak. We hope you 
got settled in nice and easy and that the ﬁ  rst few days were 
only mildly chaotic. In celebration of smooth transitions and 
new-(ish) beginnings, here’s your ﬁ  rst-week-of-the-semester edition of… 
Darts and Laurels
Most of us know North Korea from “The Interview,” its 
periodic nuclear weapons tests, its threats to destroy the whole world and its completely genuine reverence for a fam-
ily of paunchy men in unitards. 
It’s become kind of a sick joke in the international com-
munity today — point out the latest insane thing North Ko-
rea’s leaders did, and laugh uncomfortably. 
Well, North Korea is back at it again, but this time, it’s 
because the rogue nation just executed its defense minister. 
Why? Nobody’s sure yet. Guesses run from the rumors that he was plotting a rebel-
lion against Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un to that one time he 
fell asleep during a meeting. 
Whatever the reason, North Korea is now in the market 
for a new defense minister. 
It’s a dramatic thing for any country to go through, but 
North Korea decided to take the action a step further — they 
murdered him in public with a cannon, apparently. 
That’s some medieval shit. Even though it seems kind of feeble to condemn that kind 
of behavior with a metaphorical DART, we can’t sit by and 
let something that crazy go unanswered. 
So here’s a 
DART  for that , because… well, Jesus 
Christ, we don’t need to justify that one.
In nicer, more local news, UF just broke ground on a 
brand-new food bank for students. 
The food bank will hold the typical canned and nonperish-
able items. 
But it will also provide toiletries and fresh produce grown 
on UF’s campus, as well as host classes on cooking, nutrition 
and budgeting. We think the importance of this development 
cannot be overstated. One in 10 UF students report going 
hungry — even those who don’t often only have access to ramen and peanut butter. 
The fact that the bank will also educate students on how 
to live and eat better is another great development, and we’re 
ecstatic it’s here. So a 
LAUREL  to UF, for making this 
great stride.
Finally, we’d like to pick up the heaviest, most vile 
DART  we can ﬁ  nd and hurl it right where it belongs: this 
goddamn heat.  
Like, yeah, talking about the weather gets old really fast 
— but humans weren’t meant to withstand temperatures like this. Who’s responsible for this? Who in their right mind 
thought it was a good idea to live on top of what amounts to a heat-absorbing mosquito farm? 
Darts, darts, darts all around. We can’t throw enough.College summers and the zen of failing up 
One of my favorite professors once told me that college isn’t just about learn-ing the material of your respective oc-
cupation or future career; it’s about 
learning how to navigate through 
the everyday things life throws at you, like time management, self-discipline and man-
aging your ambitions such that they actually 
become realized. His words, compounded by me recently taking “What is the Good Life” — which, let’s be real, isn’t that terrible and could actually be great with a few major reﬁ  nements — have had me 
thinking a lot about how I’ve spent my time in college, 
and how I ought to be spending it moving forward.
Unlike much of the UF Student Body, or at least those 
I lurk on Facebook, I didn’t spend much of my Spring 
semester curating what my summer was going to look 
like as it pertained to internships, jobs or anything that would actually serve to make me slightly more hirable once I graduate. Grappling with my academic and extra-curricular responsibilities and the existential crises I’ve 
written about in this very paper proved to be enough. 
When asked by friends and family what I was doing this summer, I often replied that I didn’t know what I was doing in three hours, and it would be disingenuous of 
me to tell them what I was doing in three weeks. And 
so, as is wont to occur when one acts without a backup plan, when the hastily assembled “plans” I had for the summer fell through, I was left up shit creek without a paddle.
At ﬁ  rst, I freaked out. For those who don’t know me 
(most of you), this would be my second summer where I didn’t have an incredibly prestigious internship in *in-sert glamorous American city here* and failed to plan a 
trip to *insert beautiful Western European locale here.* 
But then, it dawned on me: I had no one to “blame” but myself. Although I’m sure that many of you learned to take personal accountability for one’s lot in life years ago, as evidenced by your prestigious internships in glamorous American cities and 
trips to beautiful Western European locales, 
this is all very new to me, and it proved to be an exciting development in my ongoing educa-tion in becoming a functioning human being. 
This not-at-all profound realization marked a 
signiﬁ  cant shift in how I approached the ever-encroaching summer: The three month period I 
was dreading and deathly afraid of had suddenly become one teeming with possibility and personal opportunities.
So, to those of you who unintentionally found them-
selves in Gainesville this summer, whether you’re tak-ing classes, working, doing both or nothing at all (yet), don’t despair. Sure, you may not be like your friends in 
New York City bumping into famous comedians in the 
streets after dark, or like your roommate in Colorado tak-ing advantage of the state’s thriving marijuana industry, but you have something their internships won’t provide: an opportunity for personal reinvention. Exercise. Read 
that book you’ve always wanted to. Pick up that instru-
ment you’ve been dying to learn. As Bill Watterson once mused, the days are just packed full of possibility. Grant-ed, this will require you to make a plan and actually stick 
to it, but hey, if not now, when?
It must also be acknowledged that if you were go-
ing to do a summer of self-discovery in any city, you 
could do much worse than Gainesville. It’s a city ﬁ  lled with attractive people, great bars, ample opportunities 
for academic and cultural fulﬁ  llment and Payne’s Prai-
rie. If this column has driven a single person to Google “Payne’s Prairie” and begin to plan a trip there, or moti-vated someone to join that book club they’ve been ﬂ  aky 
on, then my summer has already been made.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org“Finally, we’d like to pick up the 
heaviest most vile DART we can 
ind and hurl it right where it 
belongs: this goddamn heat..”THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
As a public relations major, I re-
ceive a lot of questions when I talk about my time as president of the 
UF chapter of the Society of Auto-
motive Engineers (SAE), an engi-
neering society that designs and builds a small, Formula-style race car and competes 
in an international competition.
My reply is usually something to do 
with the fact that I love cars, and I have 
my whole life. Not just my dad, but both of my parents gave me the bug when I 
was a little kid. Our “family” car was a 
two-door coupe that had four seats, and our family vacations consisted of going to the Mobil 1 Twelve Hours of Sebring, 
an annual motorsport endurance race.  
   When I turned 16, I needed a ride, so I 
had one of our old cars towed out of my driveway for repairs. Fixing up old Nissan 300ZXs isn’t cheap, so my dad and I ended 
up doing a full brake job ourselves. It was 
my first mechanical repair, and I’ll never forget it. I felt so accomplished, more ac-complished than I’ve ever felt from just do-
ing well on a test.
In high school, I assumed everyone had 
the same experiences I did and knew a lot about cars too, but I quickly re-
alized they didn’t. There were times I got really frustrated not 
having anyone to talk to about 
automotive stuff. The one rush I got every day was on the way to school when a guy who lived 
in my neighborhood with an old 
Mitsubishi 3000GT would try to race me.
I did finally find my car enthusiast niche 
when I wandered into the SAE shop as a 
college freshman. Joining the team was 
one of the best decisions I’d ever made, and I gained more automotive experience and friends who love cars as much I do.
I never thought of myself as any kind of 
expert on cars until college, when I start-ed getting phone calls from my non-SAE friends and acquaintances with automotive questions. 
Friends have asked me anything from 
“Is this a good deal on this car?” to “How do I check my tire pressure?” and “Did I get a good deal on my oil change?” Pretty 
run-of-the-mill stuff, but they still needed 
answers.
My goal with this column is to give sim-ple, no-nonsense advice to those who may not share my particular passion for automobiles. As col-
lege students, the time to become 
an independent adult is now and there are some simple things about car maintenance and care 
that everyone should know. Cars 
are great, but they’re not always affordable to repair, and if you’re 
trying to save some money there are simple ways to avoid an extra trip to the mechan-
ic.
I’ll try to share a thing or two about cars 
that might actually be interesting. A lot of 
fun stuff can get caught up in jargon and 
heavy car culture, but anyone with a car 
should know something cool that’s not just boring technical stuff.
I’ll also report on new technology ad-
vancements, consumer trends and motor-
sports, as well as give my reviews of new 
cars and prototypes and any other exciting car-culture news that occurs.
When I’m not at UF, you can catch me 
helping my Dad work on his 1990 Nissan 300ZX. 
My personal ride is the 2011 V6 Nissan Altima Coupe with a manual transmission. 
His name is Tom.I’ve already walked in commencement 
and I’m finishing up my capstone course this summer. With a background in public relations and a passion for cars, I am hop-ing to work in PR in the automotive indus-
try or for an automotive publication.
In this age where anything can be 
Googled and thousands of answers appear, 
I want to help provide specific advice and insight. Along with my own experience, I 
will also consult other experts and enthu-
siasts.
If there is something I haven’t already 
touched upon or you just have a specific 
question, feel free to send me an email at 
erikacanfijn@ufl.edu. Remember there are no stupid questions, and asking a simple question now could save you a lot of time and money in the future.
I look forward to a summer of sharing 
Fast and Furious one-liners, like, “It’s just something about engines calms me down, you know?” (Jesse “Fast and Furious,” 
2001).
Erika Canfijin is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Thursdays.
Ask me anything: I'm a one-stop shop for any and all of your car concernsGuest column
Erika Canfijin
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
HE FELL ASLEEP DURING A 
MEETING.
By The Associated Press
SEOUL, South Korea — North 
Korean leader Kim Jong-un 
executed his defense chief for 
sleeping during a meeting and 
talking back to the young leader, South Korea’s spy agency told lawmakers Wednesday.
National Intelligence Service 
officials told a closed-door parliamentary committee meeting 
that People’s Armed Forces 
Minister Hyon Yong Chol was killed by anti-aircraft gunfire with hundreds watching at a shooting range at Pyongyang’s Kang Kon 
Military Academy in late April, 
lawmaker Shin Kyoung-min said. 
The NIS didn’t tell lawmakers 
how it got the information, only 
that it was from a variety of 
channels and that it believed it to be true, Shin said. The agency wouldn’t comment when contacted by The Associated Press. Since taking power upon the 
death of his dictator father in 
late 2011, Kim has orchestrated a 
series of purges in apparent efforts to bolster his grip on power. The 
most notable purge was in 
2013 when Kim 
executed his 
uncle and chief deputy, Jang 
Song Thaek, for 
alleged treason.
Koh Yu-
hwan, a North Korea expert at Dongguk University in Seoul, said 
Kim Jong Un appears to be using 
purges to keep the military old guard in check as they pose the only plausible threats to his rule. 
Koh said Kim could be resorting to 
a “reign of terror” to solidify his leadership.
Last month, spy officials told 
lawmakers that North Korea 
executed 15 senior officials 
accused of challenging Kim’s authority.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Getting the Green
Nemi Patel, a 19-year-old UF biology junior, receives a copy of the 
Gator Greenbacks coupon book from Peter Boemler, a 23-year-old employee of Gator Greenbacks, outside the Hub on Wednesday. Patel said she likes to go through the book to see if there are any good coupons.
N. Korea defense chief 
executed in public
Jong-un
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
LA ﬁ  lmmaker brings documentary back to where it began
She attended Eastside High in Gainesville, pg. 12Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game
The Ofﬁ  ce edition, pg. 11By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
If you missed Yip Deceiver the last time 
they were in Gainesville, you can catch them 
again live on Sunday.
The electro-pop/indie-dance band will be 
returning to High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., and this time they’re coming equipped with a set of new songs and a fresh 
member.
“We’ve been a two-piece for the last ﬁ  ve 
years and it just got to the point where we had 
reached the limit of things that we could actu-ally do to make it interesting so we’re like, ‘Al-
right, now it’s time to get a drummer,’” Davey 
Pierce said.
The trio, now comprised of producer and 
songwriter Pierce, executive vibes manager 
Nicolas “Dobby” Dobbratz and drummer John 
Swint, has played 50 shows since the start of 2015.
“We’ve taken him (Swint) around the 
country twice now. I’m sure he’s regretting it,” 
Pierce joked.
Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show will 
begin at 8:30. Opening performances include 
Michael Parallax, Wales and Gainesville-based 
band Keys to Atlas. Tickets can be purchased 
for $9 at the door. Advanced tickets can be 
purchased for $7 at Hear Again Music and 
Movies or on ticketweb.com.
“We have been bringing them (Yip De-
ceiver) to Gainesville for years, ever since the 
members were in Of Montreal,” said Pat Lav-
ery, owner of Glory Days Presents.
After six years of touring the world and 
playing bass with Of Montreal, Pierce decided to venture off and establish his own project. In 
2008, he began writing songs for Yip Deceiver. 
The duo was ofﬁ  cially born in 2010 when Dob-bratz, who was also in Of Montreal, collabo-rated with Pierce.
“It was kind of a project that I did at my 
house to alleviate the boredom,” Pierce said. “Dobby heard it, and he wanted to sing on a track, so I put him on one song and it kind of kept going after that.”
The band is currently preparing for the re-
lease of their upcoming album, which Pierce said is more of a live band than the last record because they wanted it to be a little more or-
ganic.
“Now that we have the rest of the band we 
can actually be like a rock band, you know?” Pierce said.
Fans can expect to hear new music such 
as “Red Line” and “Local Business,” but may 
hear some of the older dance tracks from their last album, “Medallius,” such as “Get Strict” and “Lover.”
The song “Obnoxia,” another track on 
“Medallius,” speaks to Pierce the most and helped him through a time in his life.“It’s kind of like the truest thing that I’ve 
ever written with this project,” he said.
Pierce concluded by saying he enjoys play-
ing to two people as much as he enjoys playing to a thousand people.
“For me it really is just the act of actual-
ly getting up and doing it,” Pierce said. “It’s equally fun, everywhere, every time.”THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Yip Deciever returns to High Dive with new band, music
MUSIC
By Kemi Thomas
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville Commission on 
the Status of Women is reviving its 
annual Survivor’s Art Exhibit after ﬁ  ve years.
Survivors of interpersonal vio-
lence will be showcasing their art-work to the public at 7 p.m. Friday. The free exhibit will run until May 23 at the Hippodrome State The-atre, located at 25 SE Second Place.
There are going to be at least 15 artists, a guest speaker and two poets this year, said subcommittee co-chair Whitney Shadowens.
Shadowens had only been work-
ing with GCOSW for 18 months when they chose her to orchestrate 
the event with co-chair Sarah Kate 
Wilder.
“Hopefully next year, if we do 
this again, which I think it will be set to do again, I’m hoping to have more people involved,” Shadow-ens said.She said getting the artists to 
participate was the easy part.
“The hard part is the making 
sure everyone is able to get there, making sure when we get all of the art up and display it; to just make sure, on the day of, things go well,” 
Shadowens said.
Despite the stress, she said she’s 
sure the event will beneﬁ  t the com-
munity. A lot of the times, survi-vors have to defend themselves after suffering interpersonal vio-lence, she said.
Shadowens expects the event to 
create awareness and allow a safe space. She said she hopes the event will lead more survivors to ﬁ  nd a home with GCOSW.
Jamie Funderburk, who was a 
co-founder of the GCOSW Survi-vor’s Art Exhibit in the late 1990s, agrees.
She said that when a trauma 
survivor feels ready, sharing their story through artistic expression can give voice to the unspeakable and facilitate healing.
Funderburk said she’s excited to 
see this year’s exhibit is at the Hip-podrome Gallery.
“The Survivors Art Exhibit 
breaks the silence about the reality and severity of interpersonal vio-lence and offers a strong commu-nity of support for survivors to fa-cilitate healing,” Funderburk wrote in an email.
Art exhibit gives survivors of interpersonal violence a voice
It will open on Friday
“Hopefully next year, if we 
do this again, which I think 
it will be set to do again, I’m 
hoping to have more people 
involved.”
Whitney Shadowens
subcommittee co-chairCourtesy to the Alligator
Electro-pop/indie-dance band Yip Deceiver, which consists of Nicolas Dobbratz (left), Davey Pierce (center) and John Swint 
(right), will perform at the High Dive on Sunday.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
Whether you’ve been a fan of 
“The Ofﬁ  ce” since 2005 or you just 
discovered it on Netﬂ  ix for the ﬁ  rst time, now is your chance to binge drink while you binge watch.
The mockumentary-style comedy 
follows the everyday lives of the of-ﬁ  ce employees of Dunder Mifﬂ  in, everyone’s favorite ﬁ  ctional paper company located in the small town of Scranton, Pennsylvania.
So put down your ofﬁ  ce sup-
plies and raise up your glasses of the cheapest alcohol you can ﬁ  nd. If you’re anything like the Dunder Mif-ﬂ  in gang, you’re probably planning an excuse to party anyway.
Warning:  By the end of this 
game, there’s a strong possibil-ity you might get Meredith-after-a-work-party wasted.Take a sip … 
the ofﬁ  ceGallery Talk (Art)
Place: Harn Museum of Art
Time: 3 p.m.
 
Planetary (Film)
Place: Hippodrome State Theatre
Time: 2 p.m.
Price: $6 Every time Jim smirks at the camera 
crew
 Every time Andy mentions Cornell
 Every time Kelly ﬂ  irts with Ryan
 When Michael clashes with Toby
 When Jim successfully pranks Dwight Every time Michael says “Thatʼs what 
she says!”
 When Creed steals something
 Every time Michael calls a conference-
room meeting
Finish your drink…
 When Dwight tries to become assistant 
regional manager
 Every time Andy sings a show tune When Dwight tries to get Jim ﬁ  red
 Every time Ryan cheats on KellyFRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
A Piece of My Heart (A play about Vietnam)
Place: Acrosstown Repertory Theatre
Time: 8 p.m.
Price: GA $15 / Students and veterans $13
 
 
Subliminal Pepper (Sublime cover band)
Place: High Dive
Time: 9 p.m.
Price: Advance $6 / Day of show $8Into The Blue  (Dance show)
Place: Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
Time 1:30 p.m.
Price: $8.50
 
14th annual Hog Roast
Place: Gainesville Harley-Davidson
Time: NoonTake a shot … 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
By Veronica Garcia
Avenue Writer
The Hackensaw Boys are return-
ing to Gainesville, and fans can 
expect anything from the eclectic 
string band.
“It’s been a few years since they 
were last here, and good string 
bands touring through Gainesville 
are hard to ﬁ  nd,” said Pat Lavery, 
owner of Glory Days Presents.
The band will perform Tuesday 
at the High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. 
Doors open at 8 p.m., and the 
show begins at 9. Tickets can be 
purchased for $12 at the door. Ad-
vanced tickets can be purchased for 
$10 on ticketweb.com.
The Virginia-based string band 
initially formed in the fall of 2000 
with founding member David Sick-
men. 
What started as a group of 
friends with a desire to play Appala-chian Folk music resulted in playing 
various prominent music festivals, 
including All Good Music Festival, Bonnaroo, Telluride and Floydfest.
After years of touring, the lead 
singer and guitarist left the band to spend more time with his family.
“In 2005, I felt like I had to stay home more, so I stepped aside,” Sickmen said. “In 2012, by chance, I had seen one of the members and he was basically saying the band might stop; I thought that was hor-rible and I came back.”The band is on a U.S. tour while 
preparing for the release of its new album in the fall.The current lineup includes 
Brian Gorby on percussion, David Sickmen on guitar, Jimmy Stelling 
on banjo and Ferd Moyse on the 
ﬁ  ddle.
Sickmen said the band’s name 
came from one of the original group 
members, who described the name 
as the motion of sawing something really hard.
“At ﬁ  rst I was not sold on the 
name,” Sickmen said, “but I learned 
to love it very quickly.”
Attendees can expect to hear 
the band’s unique instrument, the 
charismo, during the show. The 
charismo is a homemade percus-
sion instrument created by former member Justin Neuhardt.
“It’s kind of like functioning art,” 
Sickmen said. “It’s a sculpture that 
you play.”
The band has made at least 100 
different charismos. Each is made 
with tin cans and played with 
spoons.
Sickmen described the band’s 
musical style to be their own, due 
to the fact that there have been mul-tiple songwriters in the group.
“We all are songwriters. We just 
wanted to get our songs together to create old-school music,” Sickmen said.Virginia-based string band Hackensaw Boys returns to GNV
MUSICBy Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
Eastside High School graduate Wadooah 
Wali is now a Los Angeles ﬁ  lmmaker with an award-winning documentary screening 
Saturday.
“When I was a little girl, I told my par-
ents that I wanted to write, direct and pro-
duce stories in TV and ﬁ  lm,” Wali said. “Being practical people, they told me that there weren’t any successful black female writers, directors, producers.”
Now, “Gaze of the Beholder,” Wali’s 
documentary on beauty, body image and self-acceptance, has touched people throughout the nation and overseas.
“It’s nice to see that kind of success and 
it’s good to see her coming back to where she came from,” said Nailah Summers, co-coordinator of the event.
The special one-night screening begins 
at 7:30 p.m. at the Civic Media Center, lo-cated at 433 S. Main St.
“It’s been an incredible journey,” Wali 
said on her documentary, which not only highlights her own personal journey but 
also features TV personality Carson Daly 
and Olympic Athlete Karina LeBlanc.
Wali’s younger sister, Chania Wali, 
came up with the idea of bringing the ﬁ  lm back to Gainesville. 
Chania, who works at Maude’s Sidecar 
Bar, is interviewed on the ﬁ  lm as well.
“The combination of her just being 
proud of me as her older sister, but also 
just wanting to bring that back to the home 
crowd was appealing,” Wali said.LA ﬁ  lmmaker brings documentary back to where it began
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Hackensaw Boys, a Virginia-based string band that uses a unique instrument called a 
charismo, will be performing at the High Dive on Tuesday. They performed in Gainesville before.
She attended Eastside High
“It’s nice to see that kind of success 
and it’s good to see her coming back to 
where she came from.”
Nailah Summers
event co-coordinatorTHURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    5-28-15-28-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-14-15-33-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-14-15-33-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-14-15-33-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1490. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com    6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   6-18-15-20-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THESUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
HALF BLOCK TO UF
$525 rent, August 1st. Four 3BR apts, quad, 
1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 condition, extras paid 
for, free parking, compare. 352-514-5060    
5-21-15-5-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, 
Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   6-4-15-8-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
Close to UF 4BR/3BA House
Excellent condition. Fenced yard. Pet friend-
ly. Call Mike 352-665-7316. 621 NW 35th St.    
5-21-15-3-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Great apartment University House. 1BR/1BA apt, furnished, all utilities and wifi connection included. W/D. $650 per month. Walk to UF campus. Pool, fitness. Annette 407-687-9852, Annettemarie19@aol.com.    5-14-15-3-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
2 Female Roommates to share 3BR/2BA condo asap, 5 mins from UF, Fitted Kitchen, Laundry, TV/Internet, Utilities incl, $550 per month.Call 208-589 6261    5-26-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Bare Electronicsbareelectronics@yahoo.com
Startup online electronic equipment repair.    5-12-1-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    5-14-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
2014 Jeep Compass for sale. 6600 mile-age, only one owner, great conditions, for $19,000. PRICE IS NEGOTIABLE   Call 832-851-7561     5-28-15-6-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-17-25-13VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 5-14-14-25-13 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedTHURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for 
various positions. Flexible schedules and 
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more 
at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-
25-14
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales 
staff in outside newpaper advertising sales. 
Motivator needed who works well with a con-
stantly changing staff. Duties include training 
university students in outside newspaper 
sales, layout and copy writing. Must work 
well within and meet daily deadlines. Good 
organizational skills a must. Newspaper ad 
sales background an advantage. Modest 
salary, good benefits and excellent working 
environment. With resume, send cover letter 
that must include salary requirements, to: 
General Manager, The Independent Florida 
Alligator, P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 
32604 or email to tcarey@alligator.org. No 
phone calls please. EOE
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working stu-dent for part-time work in land mainte-nance on weekends. Begin $10/hr. Contact TrueheartofFlorida@gmail.com    5-14-15-5-14
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
Looking for a PRN cleaner for home,office,& apartment cleanings...Please contact Caleitha@ 352-214-0868 call/text...You must pass a drug,reference, & background check..    5-21-4-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the 
directions.              5-28-15-6-14MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy 
Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
Fan Head is seeking a Campus Czar this summer/fall to promote its fun, innovative Gator wearable. Gain retail partners, work with campus groups and coordinate game-day sales. Great incentive compensation. Contact us at customerservice@myfanhead.com.    5-26-15-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
6-2-15-14-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience pre-ferred. Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.
com      5-28-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364   5-14-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! Receive Hands On Training. National Certifications Operating Bulldozers, Backhoes & Excavators.Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    5-14-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 
50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to 
Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 
843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. 
EOE    5-14-1-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? 
Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE   5-14-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
Divorce Attorney Douglas E. Massey 
gnvlawyer.com 352-219-2501      5-19-3-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    5-14-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    5-14-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    5-14-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Designated drivers are the greatestBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    5-14-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets
ACROSS
1 Windows
precursor
6 Hard-to-control
groups
10 Forensic
investigator’s
item
14 Advil alternative15 Pair on a lake16 Place to slog
through
17 “Wait, there’s
more ... “
20 Hullabaloo21 Barry White
genre
22 Dossier cover?23 “Boy, am I
dumb!”
25 Touch the
ground
27 “Wait, there’s
more ... “
33 Airline with the
MileagePlusfrequent flierprog.
34 Ole Miss rival35 Customs
collection
38 Golf lesson
subject
40 Charmin layer42 Black & Decker
rival
43 Dapper46 Gave up for
money
49 Irritated state50 “Wait, there’s
more ... “
53 Brainy Simpson54 Not within
walking distance
55 One needing a lift58 “__ Girl”: 2014
Affleck film
61 Battery terminal
sign
65 “Wait, there’s
more ... “
68 D.C. dealers69 Hawaiian coffee
district
70 Put a cap on71 Eye woe72 Kiddie-lit dog73 Stops bleeding
DOWN
1 Apple Store array2 Job opening3 Prefix with
goddess4 Go to extremes
5 Complete
collection
6 Con __: briskly,
on scores
7 Iolani Palace site
8 Estracell sponge
brand
9 Phishing fig.
10 Does a slow burn11 Surfing
convenience
12 Opera
showstopper
13 Gets in the pool,
maybe
18 Milo of the movies19 She adopted
Tigger
24 Top of a scepter,
perhaps
26 Part of MoMA27 Perturbs28 O.K. Corral
gunfighter
29 Toy (with), as an
idea
30 Sitter’s challenge31 Quiz answer
32 Maori carvings
36 Unshakable37 Cut and run39 “Don’t make me
laugh!”
41 __ Kippur44 Stone monument45 UFO fliers,
purportedly
47 Career officer
48 Forensic
investigator’s
molecule
51 Convertible, in
slang
52 Adviser who was
a regular “Oprah”
guest
55 Enervates56 Feature of some
paneling
57 In a laid-back
manner
59 Words of dismay
60 Straightened up62 Wedding rental
63 Combat group
64 LAPD ranks66 Puts one’s initials
on
67 Pampering, for
short
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/13/1505/13/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, May 13, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us on Twitter
Follow @Pinakk12 and 
@LFT orresIII for updates during Florida softball's NCAA regionalon Friday against FAMU. The UF men's golf team hopes to secure a spot in the NCAA Championship by finishing in the top-five at the NCAA Regional Championship. By Graham Hack, Graham 
Hall and Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writers
The University of Florida athletics 
department has undergone three 
head coaching changes in the past six months, forcing athletics director Jeremy Foley to search the country 
for the latest coaches to lead the 
Gators. 
With the gymnastics, football and 
basketball programs transitioning into the future, Foley looks ahead while reflecting upon the personnel decisions that have shaped his tenure. 
•   •   •
When Rhonda Faehn took the 
reins of UF gymnastics in May 2002, she inherited a program capable of contending with low expectations. 
Over the decade before Faehn's 
hire, the Gators had made the Super Six four times, finishing as high as second in 1998. But they were never considered a true powerhouse and continually lived in the shadow of nearby championship-caliber schools such as Georgia and Alabama.
In other words, it was only a 
good job. 
Faehn made it great.The former U.S. Olympian came 
to Florida after being an associate 
head coach at the University of 
Nebraska, a program she helped take to multiple Super Sixes and had garnered the honor of Assistant Coach of the Year in 2001.
Despite having no prior head 
coaching experience, Faehn quickly turned Florida into one of the top women’s gymnastics schools in 
the country, winning UF’s first 
Southeastern Conference title since 
1989 in only her fifth season and 
making three Super Sixes in that time span.
And that success only continued 
to snowball. 
From 2007-2015, she amassed 
seven more Super Six berths, three 
more SEC titles, five No. 1 recruiting classes in the last six years and the program’s first national title in 2013, followed by two more — becoming 
just the third program to ever win 
three or more titles consecutively.
After 13 years of climbing to the 
pinnacle of collegiate gymnastics, there was nowhere to go but down for both Faehn and Florida.
And that is why when Faehn 
dropped the metaphorical microphone and exited stage left to become the senior vice president of USA Gymnastics after the school’s third title, it made so much sense for her and left Florida in such a precarious position.
Faehn had reached her ceiling 
on this level. Now, she has the opportunity to reach new heights.
But even with Faehn, dealing 
with the outrageous expectations was going to be an unenviable task for Florida moving forward. Without her, it’s almost a no-win situation.
Enter Jenny Rowland, the woman 
tasked with picking up the colossal weight of Faehn’s microphone and ensuring the show goes on with the same level of success.
Her credentials are not unlike 
Faehn’s back in 2002: she has experience as an associate head coach at Auburn, won Co-Assistant Coach of the Year in 2015 and helped Auburn to its first Super Six in 22 years.
But she takes over a program that 
is similar only in name to the one Faehn took control of in 2002.
It’s a good problem to have 
when you inherit the talent of the three-time national champions, but no coach in the country will have to deal with more pressure than Rowland next season.
•   •   •
For the first time in 25 years, the 
Gators had to replace a basketball coach and a football coach within a one-year span.
Foley hired Mike White to replace 
men's basketball coaching legend Billy Donovan and selected Jim McElwain to replace football coach Will Muschamp.
White and McElwain will carry 
Florida’s most prominent programs into new eras.
McElwain is hoping to turn 
around a football program that’s 
been mediocre at best the past two 
seasons. Muschamp wasn’t the answer to continue the success Urban Meyer brought to the program.
Muschamp didn’t win any SEC 
titles in his tenure as coach and was let go during the middle of another disappointing season. McElwain was hired on Dec. 4 and immediately got 
to work to fill the rest of his coaching 
staff.
McElwain hired eight assistants 
to the team including offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier, defensive coordinator Geoff Collins and co-defensive coordinator Randy Shannon. 
McElwain and Nussmeier are 
installing their version of the pro-style offense, an offense in which quarterbacks Will Grier and Treon 
Harris started to learn during Spring 
practice.
Barring any transfers coming into 
the program, Grier or Harris will likely be the starting quarterback when the season begins on Sept. 5 against New Mexico State.
Neither quarterback looked 
overly impressive during the Spring 
game. McElwain will have to make 
sure one of them is ready for a 2015 schedule that includes road games against Kentucky, Missouri, LSU and 
Gators head to SEC Outdoor Championships
The No. 3/4 Florida men's and women's track and field teams are looking 
to secure the Southeastern Conference Outdoor Championships beginning today in Starkville, Mississippi. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhonda Faehn looks on during Florida gymnastics' third-place finish at the Southeastern Conference 
Championships at The Arena at Gwinnett Center in Duluth, Georgia, on March 21.
Florida athletics department entering transition period
SOFTBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Despite losing two of its last three 
games, Florida softball isn’t feeling the 
pressure heading into postseason play.
In fact, they’re about as relaxed as 
they’ve ever been.
At the end of Wednesday’s infield prac-
tice during a scorching day, the players and coaches converged 
in the circle. Despite the fast-paced ground ball 
drills and high level of in-
tensity all practice, some infielders wanted to have a little fun at the end.
“We were getting 
ready to break and kind 
of go over our next couple days of routine with the infielders and [they said], ‘can I throw a pitch?’ and I’m like, ‘yeah, go ahead,’” coach Tim Walton said.
Among those to throw a pitch was Lau-
ren Haeger.
Haeger, who’s 24-1 this season in the 
circle and leads the Southeastern Confer-ence with a 1.47 ERA, is no stranger to pitching. But she’s accomplished all of that 
with her right arm.
She stepped in the circle at the end of 
practice and threw a pitch with her left 
arm. The ball sailed over the catcher’s head, leaving the players and coaches be-hind her laughing.
“That was really bad,” Haeger said with 
a chuckle.
Haeger, a senior set to start her final 
postseason run, knows what it takes to get back to Oklahoma City for the Women’s College World Series. That’s why she tries 
to keep the atmosphere fun and loose for 
her teammates.
“That’s how all of our practices are,” 
Haeger said. “If you’re not having fun, Gators maintaining composure ahead of NCAA regional
Haeger
SEE ATHLETICS,  PAGE 20
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19UF closes regular season with home series against Auburn18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
1
1312111098765432
  
    
S. Main St .W. Unive rsity Ave.
SW 1 3th St. UF
N Main St.E Unive rsity Av e. NW 6th St. 
NE 3rd St. SW 2nd St. SW 3rd St. 
S Main St.  W University Ave. 
SE 2nd Ave. SW 2nd Ave. SW 1st Ave. SE 1st Ave.SE 1st St.
SE 2nd Place
SW 5th Ave.Manuel’s  
Vintage 
Room:08N
SUN 
CENTERNW 2nd St.NW 3rd St.
SW 6th Ave.Hippodrom e
BASEBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
Etched across the orange brace-
let that Logan Shore wears on his wrist are ﬁ  ve white letters: grind.
On Wednesday, as the sopho-
more ﬁ  elded questions about Flori-da’s previous win, a 9-7 road upset over Vanderbilt, the word seemed to carry more weight than usual.
“I think that’s kind of what 
we’ve been looking for all year from our guys,” Shore said of the victory.
It’s a ﬁ  tting term for this year’s 
Florida baseball team, which has overcome injuries, inconsistencies 
and inexperience to reach its cur-
rent position: two games behind the Southeastern Conference’s top 
spot with one series remaining.
No. 6 Florida (38-14, 17-10 SEC) 
will face Auburn (33-20, 12-15 
SEC) at 7 p.m., beginning a three-game series with a Tiger team that sits 7.5 games behind ﬁ  rst place in the SEC West. A sweep is almost necessary if UF wants a chance at claiming the SEC regular season title.
“Not every season is going to 
go perfect. There’s gonna be a lot of ups and downs,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “But if you told me every year here you would have three games left and you’re still in the hunt, I’d take that every year.”
The same can be said of his 
players, whose conﬁ  dence has ris-en after UF took two out of three 
games against Vanderbilt in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, last weekend. In 
Game 3, the Gators rallied from a 
three-run deﬁ  cit to defeat the No. 7 Commodores in 10 innings.
“It really told us a lot about our 
team, and that we can never give up and we never do,” senior third baseman Josh Tobias said. “We’re never out of any of the games. And when we kept ﬁ  ghting in that last game, it showed some moxie and competitiveness that we knew we always had. It was good to show it on the ﬁ  eld.”
At times this season, however, parts of Florida’s team didn’t show 
it. Its offense was often counted 
upon to pick up its pitching staff, and it did. 
So far, the Gators are 34-2 when 
they outhit their opponents and 
24-5 when they hit a home run.
But in the past month, Florida’s 
pitchers have gone 10-4, and its 
bullpen is rounding out the sea-son with a 17-2 record, a 2.98 ERA and 11 saves. Entering this week-end, UF’s pitching staff has nearly tripled its strikeouts (412) since recording 148 midway through the season.
“I think, obviously, you wanna 
be playing your best baseball at the end of the year,” O’Sullivan said. “You can look at our season and how it’s gone — we’ve won some 
series and we’ve lost some series.
“But to sit here in the last week-
end and have all our goals still in 
front of us and to still be relevant in terms of the SEC, I’m pleased.”
UF vs. Auburn Starting Pitchers
T onight:  
Logan Shore (6-5, 2.85 ERA) vs. 
Cole Lipscomb (6-2, 2.47 ERA)
Friday: 
A.J. Puk (7-3, 4.73 ERA) vs. TBA
Saturday: 
TBA vs. TBATHURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
UF FOOTBALL
Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Just over a month removed 
from the conclusion of Spring 
practice, Florida head coach Jim 
McElwain spoke to the media by 
teleconference on Wednesday morning.
Following reports that former 
Notre Dame quarterback Everett Golson had visited the university on Tuesday, McElwain was asked about the prospect of UF adding transfer players to the roster.
“There’s going to be an oppor-
tunity for some guys to come in and obviously get some playing time,” McElwain said. 
“We’re thin in some areas, 
and that’s pretty obvious. That was the hand we were dealt, and 
I look forward to trying to piece 
that thing together.
“There will probably be a lot of new names on the roster mov-ing forward. These guys all came 
here to win a championship and 
that’s what we’re looking to do.”
McElwain revealed that red-
shirt junior quarterback Skyler 
Mornhinweg has decided to trans-fer from UF and will continue his playing career at 
Columbia Uni-
versity in the fall.
Florida is 
now left with just two scholar-ship quarterbacks on the roster – redshirt freshman Will Grier and sophomore Treon Harris – com-peting for the starting role.
The Gators did not add any 
quarterback recruits on scholar-
ship in the Class of 2015 and have 
yet to land a commitment for the position in the Class of 2016.Backup QB transfers
you’re not gonna win.”
Second baseman Kelsey Stewart also ﬁ  red a 
pitch from the circle despite having never pitched 
in her career at Florida. Walton said he likes how 
his team understands the difference between work and fun.
“[That was] the tail end of what was a long day 
for those guys, and they were still ready to have 
fun,” Walton said. “I love that about them.”
Postseason play is a time when players really 
focus on practicing and preparing for games with-
out dealing with classes, which Haeger values. 
“Postseason’s super fun,” Haeger said. “We all 
talk about it. We’re like, ‘postseason’s awesome.’ You just play softball and that’s so nice you don’t 
have to worry about class or anything like that.”
There’s also inevitably a lot of downtime out-
side of practice and games during the postseason. 
Senior shortstop Kathlyn Medina said it becomes a 
great opportunity for the team to bond.
“We have team dinners, team breakfasts – this 
morning we went to Peach Valley,” Medina said. 
“We’re just enjoying each other’s company.”
The Gators will have the upper hand during this 
weekend’s regional play because all games will be played in Gainesville at Katie Seashole Pressly Sta-dium, marking the 13th consecutive season that Florida will host an NCAA regional.
Medina said this is a big advantage for them 
because they’re so familiar with the stadium.
“I love this ﬁ  eld and I feel comfortable on this 
ﬁ  eld,” Medina said. “We know our ﬁ  eld like the back of our hand. I mean, I could stand out there 
with a blindfold on and probably be able to do 
something, so it’s a good thing to have.”
The Gators, who were named the No. 1 overall 
seed for the tournament, will take on Florida A&M for their ﬁ  rst game of the weekend on Friday at 6 p.m. The teams in UF’s regional include the Rat-
tlers, Florida Atlantic and Hofstra. 
Medina and the team aren’t paying too much 
attention to the seeding.
“If we come in here thinking it’s just gonna be 
an easy road to the World Series, then I think we 
could get snake bit as I like to say,” Medina said. “So we just have to make sure we’re taking every-body seriously.”SOFTBALL,  from pg 17UF faces FAMU on Friday at 6 p.m.
“If we come in here thinking it's just gonna be 
an easy road to the World Series, then I think 
we could get snake bit as I like to say."
Kathlyn Medina
UF softball shortstop
McElwain
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2015
South Carolina.
White will face the daunting task of 
replacing Donovan, the winningest coach in 
Gator basketball history with 467 wins and two national titles during 19 seasons with the 
Gators. 
But White wants to carve out his own path.
The 38-year-old coach went 101-40 in 
his four seasons coaching the Bulldogs and reached the quarterfinals of the National Invitation Tournament the previous two seasons. White was also named the Western Athletic Conference Coach of the Year in 2013 after leading Louisiana Tech to a 27-7 record.
While the Gators return their leading scorer 
from last year’s team in Dorian Finney-Smith, they will have to replace the production of Michael Frazier II, who declared for the NBA Draft along with Chris Walker, and Eli Carter, who decided to transfer.
•   •   •
Foley is running with the transition, even 
if the past year has been unlike anything UF’s athletics director has ever seen.
He remembers hiring Donovan from 
Marshall 19 years ago — arguably the biggest 
hire of his tenure — like it was yesterday, and 
he must have known Donovan would get that itch one day to move on from Gainesville.
When Donovan announced he was leaving 
in 2007, before a last-second change of heart, he had just hit the peak of his career.
 The Gators were coming off back-to-back 
National Championships, and the NBA’s Orlando Magic badly wanted him.
It was the perfect opportunity, but there 
were people who kept Donovan a Gator.
Gainesville had become not just the home of William John “Billy” Donovan Jr., but also the home of his wife, Christine, their four children and his parents. 
And then there was Foley, who became like 
family to Donovan.
“I don’t want to get emotional here either, 
but I don’t think people understand the relationship that he and I had,” Donovan said during his farewell press conference on May 4. 
“Do we agree on everything?  No. But there 
is a lot of love between he and I and a lot of care. “That seems to be a consistent thing said 
about Foley: He cares.
In the 23 years that Foley has directed UF 
athletics, he has made it a priority to care for people.
When he hired Donovan, Foley made sure 
Donovan knew he wouldn’t just be the men’s basketball coach.
He would also be mentoring impressionable 
young men, caring about families and emphasizing the importance of putting the classroom before the court.“I worked as hard as I could. I did everything 
I could. I cared deeply about the program,” Donovan said.  “I cared deeply about Florida, and just wanted to leave a dent and to bring value. And I hope that by my presence for 19 years that the place is better for having me 
here.”
Donovan said he felt at peace leaving 
Florida because the program is in good hands.
Those hands are Jeremy’s.
“Jeremy is the best athletic director in the 
country, and he’s done this before,” Donovan said. “Jeremy cares about each sport very much. But he also cares much, much more about the University of Florida."
While he’s unsure of what the future 
holds, Foley’s methods have proven to be successful over the past 23 years, and he’s approaching the job with the same level of care and consideration that earned him the lofty reputation he holds throughout collegiate athletics.
As Foley unveiled the future of the Florida 
Gators men's basketball team at White's 
introductory press conference, he said that the 
sadness of Donovan’s departure will remain forever.
But he understands Donovan’s happiness 
comes first. 
“It’s his life, his career, his goals and his 
decisions, so totally at peace with it,” Foley said. “Will I miss him? Every day. Will I make sure that I have a relationship with him 
forever? We will all do that.
“But I’m not sitting here saying 'I cannot 
believe Billy left. How can he do that?' I’ve 
never had those emotions. I’ll be sad. It’s just it’s something good, we all loved, enjoyed and had a lot of fun. Golly, we had fun. When that’s over, yeah, there is some sadness. But that will be there forever. The good part is we’re excited about the future.”ATHLETICS,  from pg 17Donovan: Jeremy Foley is the best athletic director in the nation
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
University of Florida athletics director Jeremy Foley addresses the media before 
Florida men's basketball head coach Mike White's introductory press conference at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Monday. 
