We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 13 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
Florida volleyball set for double-
header in Hawaii 
UF will close weekend against San Diego State,
pg. 17
Mothers hold bake sale at UF for children with 
cancer
The goal is to raise $1,000, pg. 5
Chipotle to oﬀ  er delivery to 40 campuses
UF is not currently on the list, pg. 8Check out the Avenue
Comedians, beer and unusual courses, pg. 9-13
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Aleena Martin, a 19-year-old UF family, youth and community sciences sophomore, gives a “Free Hug” to T anuj Amalean, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore, on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. Mar-tin was with her principles of family, youth and community sciences class giving free hugs as part of an extra-credit assignment. “We are encouraged to give healing through hugs, ” she said.
THE GROUP HUGGED 25 
PEOPLE IN AN HOUR.
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
berickson@alligator.org
Among the sea of students 
hustling on Turlington Plaza 
on Wednesday, UF student Aleena Martin held up a pink sign with the words, “FREE 
HUGS.”
“What’s that for?” asked 
a passerby, cashing in on his 
free hug.   
“Just hugs,” smiled Martin, 
a 19-year-old UF family, youth 
and community sciences soph-
omore.
She said according to Kate 
Fletcher, her Principles of Family, Youth and Commu-nity Sciences professor, hugs are a form of therapy proven to relieve sickness, stress and anxiety.
“Hugging can be healing,” 
she said. “It relieves stress and tension.”
Each semester, Fletcher of-
fers her students the oppor-tunity for extra credit if they hug students, Martin said. The group hugged about 25 people in an hour.
“The goal is really just to 
brighten someone’s day and spread the love,” said Amy 
O’Neal, a UF psychology ju-
nior who helped coordinate the event.  
As other students wiped 
sweat from their foreheads, Fletcher’s students offered hugs.
“Some people want a free 
hug,” said Angela Locarno, a 
19-year-old UF family, youth 
and community sciences soph-omore. 
“They stop, and say, ‘Yeah, 
I could use that.’”
UF wildlife ecology and 
conservation sophomore Mi-chaela Oglesby participated in the event and watched people 
take selﬁ  es and Snapchats in 
“group hugs” on Turlington.
Jenna Palgut, a UF envi-
ronmental engineering junior, asked for a hug.
“It’s just nice to see strang-
ers love on people,” the 20-year-old said.
LOCAL
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Whether you enjoy learning through 
ﬁ  lms, discussions, musical performances 
or art exhibits, there is something for ev-
eryone to learn about Latino culture at 
Gainesville’s September ﬁ  lm festival.
The Latina Women’s League will host 
its 11th annual Latino Film Festival start-ing 6:30 p.m. today at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art in the Chandler Auditori-um. 
The festival’s opening event is an Ecua-
dorian ﬁ  lm by a female ﬁ  lmmaker celebrat-ing women in ﬁ  lm called “En Nombre de la Hija,” or “In the Name of the Girl.”
The ﬁ  lm’s director Tania Hermida will 
lead a discussion after the ﬁ  lm, answering audience questions and opening up a dia-
logue about the ﬁ  lm and the cultural issues 
present in the character’s situation.
Victoria Condor-Williams, the festival’s 
director and Latina Women’s League presi-
dent, said the festival gives the community 
a chance to learn about and address issues in Latino culture, such as immigration and refugee crises.
“It gives the community the opportu-
nity to learn more about the challenge, the goals and the life of many immigrants who 
come here,” she said. “One of the things 
we are trying to present this year is a view about the situation not only in the U.S., but in general, like in Europe with the many 
children of the Syrian community.”Local ﬁ  lm festival brings Latino culture into the spotlight By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police are looking for an 
armed robber after a man reportedly shot 
another man in the leg at the Hidden Vil-lage apartment complex Tuesday night — and left one man in the hospital and an-
other on the run.
At about 9:15 p.m. Tuesday, ofﬁ  cers re-
ceived a call about shots ﬁ  red in the apart-
ment complex, located in the 2700 block of 
SW 27th Ave. They then found a 63-year-old man on the ground.
The victim reportedly tried to stop a 
man from breaking into his daughter’s car, 
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said.
The victim eventually swung a ﬂ  ash-light at the man’s head, at which point the man pulled out a gun and shot the victim in his right leg, Tobias said.
When police arrived, the man was gone 
and the victim’s 25-year-old daughter was trying to stop her father’s bleeding.
Police used a tourniquet on the victim 
before emergency services transported him Armed robber shoots and injures local man
UF students get extra credit by giving free hugs SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4
SEE FILM FESTIVAL,  PAGE 4At the Hidden Village apartments“I can’t imagine running away from 
people who need help.”
  Yvette Quinn  
Hidden Village apartment resident 
“It’s important to learn and understand, 
and that is one of the reasons we are 
presenting these ilms and activities.”
Victoria Condor-Williams
film festival directorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPMVOLUME 110 ISSUE 13
HIGH  90° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will feature a rock 
wall, a four-person tumbler, video games and the Multicultural Greek Council Showcase: Nourishing 
the Roots of our Culture on Friday 
from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. GatorNights will also show “Avengers: Age of Ultron” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
CORRECTIONS
In a story published Wednesday 
titled "Yon Hall opening adds more space for HPP," the head-line should read HHP, and one of the departments added was the 
Department of Health Education 
and Behavior Students. The 
Alligator reported otherwise.
In the same issue, a story titled "UF study: Racial bias isn’t excus-
able," the study found that bias is 
excusable when the target person 
is completely unaware of it. The 
Alligator reported otherwise.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
RAISING THE BAR 
Sandor Valenciaga, a 28-year-old UF aerospace engineering graduate, pulls him-
self over a raised bar outside the Reitz Student Union at the Marine Ofﬁ  cer Pro-gram table Wednesday. Valenciaga completed 17 pull-ups.
POLICE ALSO FOUND THE MAN 
HAD SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA. 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Tuesday afternoon after he reportedly stole 
money and was found with spice, a synthetic form of marijuana.
At about 6 p.m. Tuesday, Taj Perry, 24, 
reportedly took $20 from the hand of Gators Tobacco employee Fred Lassiter, according to a police report.
Perry reportedly told police that he put a 
$20 bill on the ground outside as a joke, and that Lassiter picked it up and went back in-side, according to the report.
A woman standing outside never saw 
Perry put money on the ground, but she re-portedly heard Lassiter say, “Give me back my money,” several times, according to the report.
Another employee reportedly saw Perry 
take the money from Lassiter’s hand inside the store, as did a security camera, according 
to the report.
After searching Perry, 
police found more than 
1 gram of synthetic mari-
juana, a mix of plants and various chemicals often packaged as spice.
Spice-related emergen-
cies spiked this year, and 
arrests for the drug start-
ed increasing over the last couple years, Lt. Tscharna Senn and Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias, both 
GPD spokespeople, wrote in emails. Police 
arrested Perry on charges of robbery and pos-session of less than 3 grams of spice.
Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $25,000 bond.Man arrested for robbery
Perry
to UF Health Shands Hospital. His 
current status is unknown.
The gunman reportedly stole 
the victim’s wallet and his daugh-ter’s purse and cellphone in addi-tion to a nearby woman’s purse and necklace, Tobias said.
The victim was visiting his 
daughter to help with her car when the confrontation unfolded, 
Tobias said, and witnesses report-
edly saw the robber lingering be-forehand.
Yvette Quinn, 60, a resident in 
the complex, said she heard two 
gunshots while inspecting the 
apartment’s ﬂ  ooded entrance and looked up to see a man running in the opposite direction.
“It was just shocking,” she 
said.
Quinn said her experience as 
a Florida social worker and Navy veteran might be why she ran to-ward the victims before police ar-rived.
“I can’t imagine running away 
from people who need help,” she said.
Police are calling the shooting 
a crime of opportunity, and Quinn thinks neighborhood ﬂ  ooding cre-ated that   opportunity.
“So many cars have stalled out 
that we’ve had to push them out 
all day, and so they’re parking up 
there and they’re prime for rob-bery,” she said.
Russell Manning, 41, said he 
moved to Hidden Village in Feb-ruary and never worried about crime.
“Everybody kind of keeps to 
themselves back here,” he said.  
Tobias said Gainesville Police 
is working on a comprehensive robbery prevention plan that in-cludes a public-safety presenta-
tion, self-defense classes and 
increased Citizens on Patrol pres-ence. 
The shooter had not been iden-
tiﬁ  ed.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely no secret that 
our number of robberies have increased, so we can’t just keep responding to these calls — we 
have to be proactive in it as well,” 
Tobias said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
SHOOTING,  from pg1The gunman stole the 
victim’s wallet, daugh-
ter’s purse and cellphone
The story of refugees ﬂ  eeing violence in 
their country and seeking refuge in another 
is one that happens in many places, she 
said.
“It’s important to learn and under-
stand, and that is one of the reasons we are presenting these ﬁ  lms and activities,” 
she said. “To know what’s going on in this 
world.”
Condor-Williams said she hoped the fes-
tival would present an opportunity for stu-dents to watch ﬁ  lms from other countries.
“The screening opens the eyes to the 
challenge human beings have,” Condor-
Williams said.
The festival is free and open to the com-
munity and relies on grants and sponsors 
for funding. The ﬁ  lms and presentations will take 
place at several venues across Gainesville, including the Hippodrome State Theatre 
and Santa Fe College.
UF and Santa Fe students volunteered to 
organize the event.
Nicole Segini, 20, the festival’s social 
media assistant, is in charge of two Satur-day showings at the Harn.
The UF telecommunication junior said 
the showings — “Jaula de Oro” (“The 
Golden Cage”) and a Bolivian ﬁ  lm called 
“Tierra sin mal” (“Land Without Evil”) — 
are both interesting and informative. She hopes the content will attract a 
young audience.
“A lot of young people don’t necessarily 
go and watch movies at ﬁ  lm festivals — they’re very different from what we nor-mally watch,” she said.
These ﬁ  lms show a different side of the 
world, she said.
“We want people to come and see how 
the different movies represent each coun-try,” she said. “They’re all Hispanic, but there is a different culture in every country 
so I think it’s really fun to see that.”FILM FESTIVAL,  from pg 1Other ilms will take place at Santa Fe and the Hippodrome
ABOVE:
Police ofﬁ  cers gather around the 
crime scene of an armed robbery Tuesday. The gunman reportedly stole the victim’s wallet, along with two purses, a cellphone and a 
necklace before ﬂ  eeing the scene.
BOTTOM LEFT:
A view of the crime scene where 
a 63-year-old man was shot in the leg during an armed robbery at Hidden Village on Tuesday night. The victim tried to stop a man from breaking into his daughter’s 
car when he was shot.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Cpl. Rob Kennedy examines the 
cars inside the crime scene of an armed robbery. Hidden Village residents park their cars near the entrance of the complex because of severe ﬂ  ooding. “So many cars have stalled out that we’ve had to push them out all day, and so they’re parking up there and they’re prime for robbery, ” said Yvette Quinn, a 60-year-old resident.“It’s deinitely no secret that 
our number of robberies 
have increased, so we can’t 
just keep responding to 
these calls — we have to be 
proactive in it as well.”
Officer Ben T obias
GPD spokesman Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
“A lot of young people don’t necessarily 
go and watch movies at ilm festivals 
— they’re very diferent from what we 
normally watch.”
Nicole Segini
social media assistantTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
THE GOAL IS TO RAISE $1,000.
By Jenna Kline
Alligator Contributing Writer
Today on Turlington Plaza, students can 
buy treats for a sweet cause.
Two organizations focused on childhood 
cancer, Momcology and Cookies for Kids’ 
Cancer, are holding a bake sale on Turlington 
Plaza from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. for donations to 
support childhood cancer research.
The goal is to raise $1,000 and awareness, 
said Christine Kinsey, one of the “momcolo-gists” hosting the sale. Momcology is a non-proﬁ  t that connects about 4,500 cancer par-
ents around the world for peer support and 
medical information sharing. The bake sale will have 1,004 baked goods, Kinsey said. There is no set price on the sweets.
“It’s for donation,” Kinsey said. “So take 
something and give what your heart leads you to give.”
The proceeds will support phase-one re-
search, including new treatments, develop-
ment, research and drugs. Kinsey said current treatments are outdated and survival rates for 
children with cancer are not good enough.
Kim Buff said she founded Momcology af-
ter her son was diagnosed with cancer. She said she found support from parents in the similar situations.  
“It really brought a lot of light to my life 
meeting these women,” she said.
September is Childhood Cancer Awareness 
month, so Momcology partnered with Cookies for Kids’ Cancer to hold more than 60 nation-wide bake sales. Kinsey said UF was a great 
venue.
“There’s no place else in Gainesville where 
you could reach out to the young people that 
are just getting started at the beginning of their careers, and maybe give them a heart for kids with cancer,” she said.Mothers hold bake sale at 
UF for children with cancerBy Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
On Wednesday evening   — the same 
day as his 28th birthday — Jonathan Long 
stopped a robbery.
Long, working at a nearby Shell gas sta-
tion, said he saw 54-year-old Otha Brown punch a woman in the head at least four times at the corner of 34th Street and Archer 
Road.
When nobody intervened, Long closed his 
station and walked to the corner, where he 
tried to separate Brown and the woman.
After a brief struggle, Long channeled his 
16 years of martial arts training and brought Brown to the ground with a leg sweep.
“I am a very nice person,” Long said. 
“That’s why I didn’t hurt him.”
Gainesville Police soon responded to calls 
about a man reportedly attacking a woman and reaching into her purse. 
The woman was gone when ofﬁ  cers ar-
rived, so the incident was labeled as a dis-
turbance, Sgt. John Nabet said. Without a victim, Brown was not arrested.
“During all the confusion, our female...
decided she did not feel like being the victim 
and got into a car and disappeared,” he said.
Brown said money led to the struggle.He said his frustration started at the Ar-
cher Road Wal-Mart when she tried to take his M&M’s candy, he said.
Brown said he then gave her $10 for ciga-
rettes, but decided to get the money back.
At the crosswalk, Brown held Long’s 
name tag, ripped from Long’s shirt during the scufﬂ  e. A bloody towel lay on the ground be-
low his scuffed shin.
“Well, he shouldn’t have put his hands on 
that girl,” Long said. “That’s his fault.”
Since 2008, Brown has been found guilty 
on three counts of disorderly conduct, three counts of resisting an ofﬁ  cer, and four counts 
of battery, according to Alachua County court records.
As police began to leave, Brown asked 
Nabet if he could use the Shell station, and Nabet advised he use one further down the road.
“No more mischief tonight,” he said.Local man stops robbery
“There’s no place else in Gainesville 
where you could reach out to the young 
people that are just getting started at the 
beginning of their careers, and maybe give 
them a heart for kids with cancer.”
Christine Kinsey
Momcology group memberThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnKentucky clerk Kim Davis is only the beginning
As noted in last week’s Darts & Laurels, a 
Kentucky clerk has been jailed for refus-ing to issue marriage licenses to same-
sex couples. She appealed her case all 
the way to the Supreme Court — who 
ruled this summer that marriage is a right to be en-joyed by all — and was denied an appeal. Despite 
being effectively ordered to do so by the highest 
authority of law in the U.S., she still refused to issue licenses.
I do not mean to spend a lot of time on her personal mar-
riage history, as many others have, because what matters is 
the harsh discrimination, which she is attempting to imple-
ment through what she determines to be her religious liber-ties. The problem with this is she is a public servant. She does not work for a religious organization, but rather the U.S. 
government, and it is easy to see why the law saw it fit to 
send her to prison for acting in contempt of court.
Unfortunately, the jailing of Davis has sparked a martyr 
effect in certain Republican circles. Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee said Davis’ actions were warranted and he 
would do the same if he were in the same situation. Davis’ 
lawyer compared her imprisonment to the persecution of Jews in Nazi Germany.
Kim Davis is the latest in a string of anti-LGBTQ+ move-
ments that have masqueraded as expressions of religious lib-erty in this country. Before the monumental Supreme Court decision that guaranteed marriage equality nationwide, many state governments had begun passing “religious-lib-erty” legislation.
Supporters of this kind of legislation say it must be passed 
to protect the freedoms of the religious in this country. Al-though this seems like a noble effort, when you look at the legislation, it is not extending religious liberty, but instead 
enabling individuals to suppress basic rights of the LGBTQ+ 
community.Portions of these laws include protecting busi-
nesses that do not want to serve people who iden-tify as heterosexual. The now-classic example is 
the “Christian” baker who opted not to bake a 
cake for the marriage of a same-sex couple.
The problem is the defense of the “Christian” 
baker would not hold up in court. Refusing to 
serve people based on their sexual orientations is 
the same as refusing people services due to their race, sex, or ironically enough, their religion. It is 
discrimination in every sense of the word.
The LGBTQ+ community experiences discrimination in 
many spheres of society. In many states, it is perfectly legal for employers to fire employees simply due to their sexual orientations.
Once more, the GOP has managed to skew the law to 
fit its personal ideologies. The very party that constantly es-pouses following the Constitution to the letter does not want to acknowledge the fact that these laws are unconstitutional. It is an attempt to “protect” the religious majority from a crisis that is nonexistent. Republicans’ cries of persecution 
are over others they dislike gaining the same rights as them.
Despite the large amount of progress we have made as 
a country, there is still a lot of work to be done. Members 
of the LGBTQ+ community face discrimination — simply 
because of who they are — from people who refuse to treat 
them as equals. That is not what America ought to be about. We are a country where many have fought for the right to be treated with the same level of dignity. Although that has not always been the case, it is one of the most admirable ideals 
that can be seen within our founding documents. The “con-
troversy” over extending the right of marriage to LGBTQ+ individuals is just as silly as the people claiming it violates their right to observe their religion.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.A mea culpa and a 
teachable moment
This past Tuesday, we ran a column titled “Medio-cre Advice: Fair skin, bedroom advice.” The column engendered a fair amount of controversy over the 
columnist’s assertion “pale is better,” in response to 
an inquiry from a woman asking how to get a tan 
despite Gainesville’s rainy weather.
When we ran the column, we in editorial overlooked 
language that could be seen as offensive and demeaning to individuals with darker complexions. Although that was not the intent of the columnist — indeed, he asserts for the woman in question to embrace her natural tone rather than attempt to alter it, an ultimately positive message — it upset 
and hurt a considerable number of students and readers. 
For that, we apologize.
Going forward, it is our aim to be more considerate and 
aware of the language used in our articles. Neither the col-
umnist nor the editorial board intended to assert that pale 
skin is in any way superior or more worthy than darker skin; however, there is no doubt the bluntness of the state-ment made it read as an objective fact, rather than a reflec-tion of the columnist’s own sexual preference to pale com-
plexions. We accept full responsibility for not giving more 
consideration to the tone and language used in the piece.
We recognize UF is a diverse, passionate student body; 
as a newspaper, it is our obligation to reflect that. Further-more, we do not see ourselves as above criticism; we are willing to acknowledge when we’ve messed up, as we did 
here.
Those who read the column and took umbrage with it 
had no hesitation to speak up and make sure their voices 
were heard. Although it was not under the most ideal cir-cumstances, ultimately this is a good thing. Engaging in 
dialogue is more constructive than quietly resenting those 
you may have disagreements with. Dialogue is what enables progress and meaningful changes to be put into practice.
Every student attending UF is here for the same reason: 
to learn. Learning is not restricted to lecture halls and labs; college is meant to be a time that gives us the capacity to screw up without permanently ruining our lives. None of us is infallible, and lessons come from success and failure in equal measure.
There is no doubt a lesson to take away from all of this. 
We at the Alligator pledge to be more aware of the word choices we use in our paper. Likewise, this occurrence is a prime example of a universal lesson: Words, no matter how 
well intentioned, can have dire consequences. We appreci-
ate every reader who felt compelled to speak up and make his or her feelings known; we would expect no less.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
“None of us is infallible, and 
lessons come from success and 
failure in equal measure.”
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
Dear UF Students,
My name is Chris Boyett 
and I currently serve as the 
Impact Party President. 
I am pleased to announce 
that our party’s slate for the 
Fall 2015 Student Government 
elections has been released. 
After four days of inter-
viewing, the Impact Party has 
selected the 50 most qualified and capable students to serve 
in the Student Senate.
This Fall, 278 of the 341 
students who slated in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
slated with Impact Party. 
We are truly grateful to at-
tend a university with so many 
deserving students and had to make many difficult decisions. 
The Gator Nation is full 
of students eager to make an impact, and it seemingly be-comes more competitive with 
each passing election cycle. 
We heard a vast amount 
of excellent ideas from those 
who came to slate and decided on the 50 candidates we felt 
best aligned with our party’s 
aspirations and were best suit-ed for each seat.
Having to decide on only 
50 students is a tall task, espe-cially at a university like ours that fosters an incredibly com-petitive environment. 
We selected candidates 
who are focused on ending po-litical gridlock inside the sen-ate chambers and are eager to make SG effective again. 
We are proud to announce 
our full, qualified Senate slate for the Fall 2015 elections and cannot wait to continue to move Gators forward.
Go Gators.
Chris Boyett
Impact Party President
Over the past few weeks, the Internet, television and radio stations have been reporting with a somewhat lackluster energy, speciﬁ  cally in regards to Target’s 
decision to remove the “gender labels” from its toy 
sections. People from all over the country have cre-
ated giant outpourings of both support and contempt for Tar-get and the choice to let parents and children decide for them-
selves what is for girls, for boys and for everyone.
Recently, the mega-retailer announced on its blog, A Bulls-
eye View, it will no longer have signs with “boy” and “girl” 
qualiﬁ  ers in certain departments like toys and bedding. Tar-get seemed to, within its statement, already be preparing disclaimers for 
itself, saying, “We know that shopping preferences and needs change 
and, as guests have pointed out, in some departments like Toys, Home or Entertainment, suggesting products by gender is unnecessary.”
People across the nation, myself included, have taken this bold move 
as a moment to sigh in relief, feeling our efforts had resulted in some-thing large and concrete. Feminists, gender activists and many parents have seen this strategic change to the idea of shopping as a great step forward in the way we live as a commercial society.
Citizens holding the opposing view have done anything from post-
ing on their social media accounts to vowing to pull out of Target as a business and no longer shop there. I am in full support of Target’s bold move.
Upon reading through the concerns of some of these people posting 
and challenging Target’s decision, I was most troubled by the people who claimed they and the grandparents of their children would have a hard time shopping for their kids for the holidays or any other occasion. What was most troubling for me was not that these people had such a static and unmoving concept of what they should be buying for their 
children, based strictly on tradition and hardly noticeable signage, but that they apparently had never thought to ask their child(ren) 
what they wanted. Or, you know, gotten to know their kids well enough to shop for them when they aren’t around.
I think the largest issue is people are complaining that 
once these barriers have been removed, there will be no re-striction upon children or their families to only buy toys and goods assigned to them by their gender and by what shelf 
holds what item.
I am honestly surprised that people even care this much 
about these assigned sections. When I was a child my family 
would have bought me a Barbie if I asked for one, and they 
would not have batted a single eye or given one disconcerting glance. I 
am troubled by the notion that people are so stuck on certain toys and 
goods being for one gender or another. I am even further thrown that these complainers do not know their own children, the little ones they are responsible for, well enough to know what they like if they aren’t 
there to speak for themselves.
Without being taught what is for boys and what is for girls, some 
of these future generations might have boys who are comfortable be-
ing nurturing and caring if they had cared for a doll and girls who do not feel like their lives are a political statement or an oddity if they like 
Star Wars or want to play with Nerf guns. If you are a person who has 
no problem denying a child something they want on the basis that it is not under a sign which indicates their gender, you have a problem on your hands. Those problems, just like whatever is holding you back 
from the kinder, simpler option of genderless shopping, is something 
all your own. Not something you should be pushing on your kids or angrily typing at Target about — and not something any sign in any store can ﬁ  x for you.
A version of this column by Cameron Grover originally ran in The 
Maine Campus.Genderless shopping options show societal progress UWire
Cameron 
Grover
UWireBy Lexie Bajalia
Alligator Writer
Going away to college for the first 
time isn’t easy. 
But according to the most recent 
annual survey conducted by the Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles, 
college freshmen are actually more 
emotionally distressed than they have been in the past 49 years.
The survey found the proportion 
of students who frequently felt de-pressed also rose.
At UF, about 1 in 4 students seri-
ously considered leaving school due to poor mental health, according to the most recent Healthy Gators Stu-dent Survey Report, a comprehensive health study of UF students, pub-lished in 2013. But GatorWell, which provides services to reduce student stress, aims to help those students by opening a new office in the Reitz 
Union.
This will engage more students at a more convenient location, said 
Maureen Miller, the director of Ga-
torWell. The opening is tentatively 
scheduled for January 2016, when the new section of the Reitz Union opens.
Through GatorWell, UF students 
looking for wellness coaching can learn stress-management strategies, said Sara Martin, a health promotion specialist at GatorWell.
“We would work on creating a 
goal around that and then an action plan to get them there.”
Freshmen are often challenged 
by schoolwork in a way they aren’t used to or confused about choosing a major.  
In addition to academic stress, 
students may experience relation-ship, health or financial stress.Students should not hesitate to 
take advantage of campus resources 
and reach out for help, said UF psy-
chology junior Mariah Boudreaux.
She is also a former intern for To 
Write Love on Her Arms, a non-profit organization that helps those strug-gling emotionally.
“The biggest thing that I would 
say is to remember that other people feel that way, too,” Boudreaux, 20, 
said. “No one on this campus needs 
to feel alone.”By Beatriz Martinez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is still on the waiting list for 
Chipotle delivery.
A new partnership between Chi-
potle and Tapingo, a mobile com-
merce app, will begin taco and bur-rito bowl delivery to 40 university campuses nationwide by the end of 
fall, but UF has yet to make the list.
Neither the Chipotle on Archer 
Road nor West University Avenue 
was chosen for delivery services to UF students. 
Chipotle did not make the de-
cision about which universities would initially receive delivery, 
Danielle Winslow, a Chipotle pub-
lic relations and communications manager, wrote in an email.
“Since this delivery service is 
offered through Tapingo, they de-cide which universities to expand to and when,” Winslow said.
A number of factors were con-
sidered for the initial list, such as Tapingo’s relationship with the campus and the app’s operations and logistics, Leanne Reis, pub-
lic relations manager at Tapingo, 
wrote in an email.
“Our goal is to extend our ser-
vices to all students, and we hope 
to be at UF ASAP,” Reis said.
Students who use the Tapingo 
app will be charged an average of 
$2.99 for delivery with no other service fee.  According to Reis, the 
average delivery time is 25 minutes 
between placing an order and get-ting food and a receipt.
For 19-year-old UF political sci-
ence and women’s studies sopho-more Lillian Rozsa, the price for ordering Chipotle is a little high but the serving size and accessibility make up for the expense.
“My friends talked about wish-
ing they delivered last year, and now it’s almost a reality,” Rozsa said.8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
Lina Mejia (left), 21, and Nicholas Acosta, 22, both UF architecture juniors, eat chips and guacamole at Chi-
potle on West University Avenue on Sept. 1. Chipotle’s new delivery program does not currently include UF.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
HARDCORE PARKOUR 
Sebastian Arango, a 20-year-old UF biomedical engineering junior, shoots off of the wall bordering Turlington Plaza to complete a backflip during his parkour routine  Wednesday. Arango said he will practice his skill just about anywhere and was on Turlington because it was near his next class.
LOCAL
Chipotle to offer delivery to 40 campuses, but not yet UF 
CAMPUS
A stressed generation may lead to more depressed freshmenSHE PLANS TO HIGHLIGHT 
DIFFERENT TYPES OF RESEARCH.
By T aylor Maloney
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences’ new associate dean for research 
grew up on a small farm and chose to get her doctorate in agricultural and resource eco-nomics at Oregon State University.
“No one’s born saying they want to be an 
agricultural economist,” said Sherry Larkin, the newly appointed associate dean, laugh-ing.
She was promoted after being a UF pro-
fessor for about 15 years.
As associate dean, she said she plans to 
showcase different types of research, such as social-science research.
A lot of people think of research as bea-
kers and experiments, she said, but not all fields within IFAS are like that. She said she will also continue to oversee 
graduate students.
One of her students, 22-year-old Natalie 
Miaoulis, took Larkin’s class as an under-graduate and now does research under her 
as a graduate student.
“It’s through our re-
search that we’re able to 
impact the community, our nation and our world,” 
the international food and resource economics stu-dent said.
Miaoulis said Larkin 
has been a personal men-tor for her, showing her 
that “you can raise a family, you can travel the world, be successful academically and professionally and make a difference.”
Jackie Burns, the IFAS dean for research, 
said Larkin was an asset to the college from the very beginning.
“Our team leadership has been stronger 
now than it ever has been,” she said.UF IFAS appoints new 
associate dean for research
Larkin
“No one on this campus needs 
to feel alone.”
Mariah Boudreaux
UF psychology junior“Our goal is to extend our 
services to all students, and we 
hope to be at UF ASAP.”
Leanne  Reis
T apingo public relations managerKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Adult Swim’s David Liebe Hart to perform at High Dive
Read our interview with Liebe Hart on pg 13.What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Twin Peaks, ” pg 10.UF offers unusual courses, pg 11.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Comedian Christopher Titus is com-
ing to Gainesville to support his seventh 
90-minute comedy special, “Born With a 
Defect.”
Titus, who starred in Fox’s “Titus” and 
now hosts “Pawnography” on History 
channel, will perform at 8 p.m. Friday at 
the University Auditorium, located at 333 
Newell Drive. 
Tickets are available at tickets.perform-
ingarts.uﬂ  .edu. Tickets can be purchased for $29, $39 or $49 depending on the price 
zone.
Amy Douglas, the UF Performing Arts 
director of marketing and communications, 
said the performing arts department regu-
larly works with outside presenters to pro-
vide venue support for local, regional and national acts.
“We are pleased that we can assist 
Combustion Live with Mr. Titus’ most re-
cent tour,” she wrote in an email.
The comedian, who last performed in 
Gainesville at the 2003 Gator Growl, re-
ﬂ  ected on his experience.
“I would say Gator Growl is one of the 
weirdest gigs I’ve ever done,” Titus said.
He said that after telling a joke, the 
crowd’s laughter would slowly work its way around the stadium before he could tell another one.
“I think I did six jokes in like 14 min-
utes,” Titus said. “Because it was just, it was so freakin’ big, man.”
Students who come to the show can ex-
pect to take away some advice from it. He 
said he encounters a lot of young people 
who tell him they can’t wait to have kids, a statement for which he has a simple reply.
“Yeah you can,” Titus said. “Trust me, I 
have ‘em. You can wait.”
The comedian also references a new 
joke that says for the cost of raising kids, you could buy a Ferrari sports car and live the Ferrari life.
“Between (ages) one and 18, a kid’s 
gonna cost you 300 grand; that’s base lev-el,” Titus said. “And what you can get with 300 grand is a Ferrari 450 Italia and what you get with a 450 Italia is pretty much anything you want.”
His jokes are brutally honest and draw 
inspiration from his personal life, includ-ing his divorce and upbringing in a dys-functional family.
 One of his specials, “Norman Rockwell 
is Bleeding,” focuses heavily on his family.
“My mom was mentally ill, and my dad 
was a raging alcoholic and abusive… and one day I just got how absurd it all was,” 
he said, “and once I got how absurd it was, it was easy to write jokes about it.”
The comic grew up with a father who 
would show up to school events and games 
with a beer in his hand, regardless of what 
anyone thought of it. Titus said there is a 
picture of his dad sitting in the water get-ting ready to ski, with a beer in one hand and the skiing rope in the other.
“He always had a beer in his hand; 100 
percent of the time,” Titus said.That’s who his dad was. He was always 
having fun and would eventually drink enough and “piss everybody off,” which was even more fun for his dad, Titus said. 
He would have “fun on top of fun” without 
caring what anyone else thought.
As he has grown older he has begun to 
appreciate the way his dad “lived his own 
life.” His own daughter is a high school 
student concerned about what other peo-ple think of her, he said. He said college students need the same advice that he gave 
her.
“Listen, it’s gonna go by in a blink,” Ti-
tus said.
He said if you want to spend your rela-
tively short time in high school and college 
trying to ﬁ  t in, then go ahead and ﬁ  t in so the crowd will accept you.
“But if you’re deranged, the crowd will 
make you their leader,” Titus said. “And 
that’s who you wanna be.”
He touched on this concept in “Norman 
Rockwell is Bleeding,” saying the crazy 
people are the ones who pique interest and 
encourage others to come up and talk to 
them.
“You know those are the guys that start 
companies,” Titus said. “Those are the guys that change the world, man.”
Some of his own success could be at-
tributed to this reasoning, because he’s admitted to himself that you have to be a 
little crazy to be a comedian.
He questions what kind of person can 
walk into a room ﬁ  lled with a thousand 
people and believe he is the funniest and 
most charismatic person there.
Apart from being admittedly crazy, the 
artist pours a lot of effort into his craft. 
Stand-up has been his only paycheck 
since he began at 19 years old. He had to hustle, he said, and over time his constant 
hard work and stress became his normal, day-to-day work ethic.       
“I’ve kept it going because I wrote 
seven specials,” Titus said. “A lot of guys become comedians to get a TV show. I be-came a comedian to be a comedian -- never 
wanted a TV show.”
Now, the comedian is ready to perform 
for the Gators again. He said with 90 min-
utes of comedy, he’s going to rip some faces off.
This time around, he won’t be limited to 
telling six jokes in 14 minutes.
He’s also expecting to hurt some people 
with his jokes and the pure honesty that 
comes from his brand of comedy, he said.
“I do a joke in the new show where 
I say, ‘I have two kids. I stopped at two 
kids because my ex-wife’s vagina was busy elsewhere. It had a guest list, and I wasn’t 
on it,’” Titus said. “People go ‘Oooooh,’ 
but I can’t say that any nicer.”Christopher Titus to return to GNV with new material
Courtesy to the Alligator
Christopher Titus has taken his life and turned it into a comedy skit. The co-
median will perform at 8 p.m. on Friday at the University Auditorium.
The comedian will perform Friday at 8 p.m.
“My mom was mentally ill, and 
my dad was a raging alcoholic and 
abusive… and one day I just got how 
absurd it all was, and once I got how 
absurd it was, it was easy to write 
jokes about it.”
Christopher Titus
comedianTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
Take a sip when…
 Special Agent Dale Cooper drinks a “damn ﬁ  ne 
cup of coffee”
 There is an incoherent dream sequence or 
hallucination
 Special Agent Dale Cooper talks to Diane on his 
tape recorder
 Someone orders a cherry pie from the Double R 
Diner
 Hawk makes some pseudo-profound comment
Take a shot when…
 Special Agent Dale Cooper gives “the thumbs 
up,” and take an extra shot if itʼs reciprocated
 The Log Lady talks to her log
 Audrey Horne does something kinky or suggestive
 Someone admits to sleeping with Laura Palmer
 Someone says, “The owls are not what they seem” 
or “Fire walk with me” 
 You see either the Man from Another Place or the Giant
Finish your drink…
 And pour another every time they show the 
Homecoming Queen picture of Laura PalmerReleased in 1990, ABC’s 
“Twin Peaks” begins with a 
centralized murder mystery 
combined with classic soap-op-era elements, deadpan humor, 
dark mysticism and a sheer 
style of its own. 
The Mark Frost- and David 
Lynch-produced serial drama cracks the mystery of Laura Palmer’s (Sheryl Lee) murder.
Although the show only 
lasted two seasons, don’t be fooled by its short life span.
Two seasons are more than 
enough to witness the array of characters, from the young cross-dressing Drug Enforce-
ment Administration agent 
played by David Duchovny, to the 40-year-old Twin Peaks 
High School cheerleader with 
superhuman strength. 
With that being said, no 
great cult TV show is without an accompanying drink.By Andrea Cornejo
Avenue Writer By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer 
In Susan Bluck’s ofﬁ  ce in McCarty Hall, a quote hangs 
on the wall: “An awareness of death encourages us to 
live more intensely.”
Bluck, an associate professor in UF’s psychology de-
partment, has been teaching a class on death and dying 
for almost a decade -- a course many students might not 
know exists. The subject has been an interest of Bluck’s for quite some time although, outside her ofﬁ  ce, it has been generally ignored.
“People study child development and teenagers de-
veloping, and we just think, ‘Oh that’s completely nor-mal right? Of course that’s not a weird course,’” she said. “(Death) is something that happens to absolutely every-body, and it’s something that we hardly ever talk about.”
Bluck’s course is not alone in its novelty. At UF, a uni-
versity of about 50,000 students, a wide range of subjects and disciplines are readily covered, including feminism, coffee culture, food and religion, white-collar crime and even samurai war tales.
For Marit van Gelderen, a student in Bluck’s class, 
getting a chance to tap into different parts of academia is vital. Originally from the Netherlands, van Gelderen, 21, is taking classes in Gainesville during the Fall before 
traveling back home to pursue a master’s degree in clini-
cal neuropsychology.She said learning more about death will help her in 
the future when she needs to care for elderly patients or those suffering from terminal illnesses.  
Ann Whitney Sanford, an associate professor in UF’s 
department of religion, said many courses are developed based on student interest. 
“If you look at each faculty member, especially in the 
humanities, most of us have pretty diverse areas,” San-ford said.
One of the courses Sanford teaches, Religion and 
Food, delves into the ritual of eating and the social and cultural implications that go along with it.
“There’s a lot of ways that food lets us look into reli-
gion, history and just a lot of human behavior,” she said. “And we all like to eat.”
Pete Westmoreland, a lecturer in UF’s philosophy de-
partment, said the feminism course he co-teaches with a colleague includes students from all across campus.
“This class has a very broad range of students with 
lots of different kinds of interests,” he said, “which makes it a lot of fun to teach and a challenge.”
Lok Wong, a UF masters student in architecture, is 
currently enrolled in the Coffee Culture, Production and Markets course. Wong, 28, said he believes students should be aware of all the opportunities the university presents.
“Playing it safe is anti-college,” Wong wrote in an 
email.  UF oﬀ  ers range of unusual courses
CAMPUS
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
Local businesses The Top and Alligator Brewing Co. 
are teaming up for a special dining experience.
The restaurant and brewery are offering an exclusive 
beer-pairing dinner at 6:30 p.m. Monday at The Top, lo-cated at 30 N. Main St. 
“It’s something that you don’t see a lot of in 
Gainesville,” said Aaron Kahn, the head brewer at Alliga-tor Brewing. “It’s becoming a more popular thing with craft breweries reaching out to restaurants they like and respect in the same city and putting this together.”
For the beer-pairing dinner, the event organizers have 
carefully paired six handcrafted beers with ﬁ  ve delec-table courses.
“As far as appetizers go, we have a welcome beer, 
which is a lemon and Rosemary Gose called The Trav-eler,” Kahn said.
While this is the ﬁ  rst time the two businesses collabo-
rate for a beer-pairing dinner, it isn’t the ﬁ  rst time either business has participated in the trend. Alligator Brewing had a smaller beer-pairing event at local restaurant The Jones B-Side a couple of years ago, while The Top has previously collaborated with Swamp Head Brewery, Ci-gar City Brewing and Bell’s Brewing.
“I’ve known Aaron for a long time and enjoy working 
with him,” wrote Chase Rossi, the chef at The Top in charge of the event, in an email. “His beer is exceptional, and these beer pairing dinners give us a chance to do something creative outside the normal realms of the daily restaurant business.”
The Top has recently expanded its craft beer selec-
tion, motivating Kahn to collaborate with the restaurant.
“It seemed like a good ﬁ  t in terms of the atmosphere 
and size and what I wanted to do,” Kahn said.
Rossi hopes the guests enjoy the food, the beer and 
the unique dining experience.
“I don’t want to give away the whole menu, but I’m 
looking forward to the salmon dish paired with the Viog-
nier barrel aged pale ale, and the short rib braised with 
a brown ale and served with a Smoke Habanero Ale,” Rossi said.
Frankie Ramos, 25, a UF alumni and chef at Fork and 
Pasta, said he is attending the event because it “piqued his interest.”
“It’s interesting how the taste changes when you pair 
it with food,” Ramos said.  “It’s something not a lot of people think about when making a beer selection, but people do it all the time with wine.”
When asked what he’s expecting, Ramos replied, “It’s 
at The Top. They always have great beer and great food. 
It can’t fail.”The Top hosts beer-pairing dinner
“As far as appetizers go, we have a welcome 
beer, which is a lemon and Rosemary Gose 
called The Traveler.”
Aaron Kahn
head brewer 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
Maude’s hosts a showing of “Casablanca” at 8:30 p.m. followed by “Indiana 
Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Art” at 10:30 p.m. Tuesday.
By T aylor Maloney
Avenue Writer
About 20 people huddled outside 
Maude’s Classic Cafe watching “Casablan-
ca” on a large screen projector at 9 p.m. 
Tuesday. Cloth napkins were draped over 
the streetlights to set the mood.
The coffee shop’s new event, Maude’s 
Movie Tuesdays, involves screening ﬁ  lms 
on the restaurant patio at 8:30 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. at no charge for the rest of the month.
The showings have been in full swing 
since July with movies like “Finding 
Nemo,” “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” 
and “Iron Man.”
The event’s founder, 43-year-old Ste-
phen Tierney, started it due to his own love 
for movies.
“I love movies and I put on a lot of 
events in town,” he said.
When Tierney is not showing movies at 
Maude’s, he DJs at The Atlantic Nightspot, where he has worked for 15 years.
He bought the projector set inexpensive-
ly from the UF Surplus Facebook page and 
later bought and repaired a broken screen 
from The Harn Museum of Art.
“I’ve just always been a big fan of mov-
ies in general,” he said.
On rare occasion, you’ll catch Tierney 
on a night when he brings his PlayStation instead of a movie.
He said he wants to do an anti-game 
day where he plays video game clips from 
YouTube.
Tierney also takes requests for what 
movies to play from the event’s Facebook page.
“Sometimes, if enough people want to 
see a movie, I’ll come out another night 
and play it,” he said.
Tierney said he is excited for October’s 
movie nights, where he hopes to show 
scary movies and potentially the Harry Pot-
ter series.
Although Maude’s pays him for how 
many people show up, Tierney gives back 
to the Gainesville community by organiz-ing this event.He said he thinks it’s just a great way to 
get together.
Devin Moore, a UF accounting fresh-
man, was searching to ﬁ  nd community when he stumbled upon Maude’s.
“I went exploring my ﬁ  rst week here 
and I found downtown and I found this 
place,” said 18-year-old Moore.
Moore attends events at Maude’s, such 
as Movie Tuesdays, to meet people with 
similar interests.
“It can bring together people — like-
minded people,” he said.
Moore hopes to see a Quentin Tarantino 
marathon at the coffee shop sometime in the future.
“I want, like, ‘Reservoir Dogs,’ ‘Pulp 
Fiction’ and ‘Jackie Brown’ in a row,” he said.
For Phillip Corrado, 21, Movie Tuesdays 
are an alternative to streaming services like 
Netﬂ  ix.
“It allows people who actually haven’t 
seen some of these movies to see them for 
free,” the UF digital arts and sciences se-nior said.
Corrado is the current president of the 
UF Bachelor of Arts in Digital Arts and Sci-ences Society, and he was looking to ﬁ  nd a place for members to socialize.
“Community would make it much more 
friendly,” he said.
Prior president of the society, 21-year-
old Alex Pinchin, was looking for a place the younger members of his clubs could go.
“If you’re under 21, there’s nothing you 
can do,” the UF digital arts and sciences senior said.
Pinchin also likes the informal environ-
ment the movie nights create.
He said you might catch glimpses of 
the screen while walking by and say, “Oh that’s that movie I like.”‘Maude’s Movie Tuesdays’ oﬀ  ers organic ﬁ  lm experience
FILM
“It allows people who actually haven’t 
seen some of these movies to see them 
for free.”
Phillip Corrado
UF digital arts and sciences senior 
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE/uni2219  film  /uni2219  dance  /uni2219  music  /uni2219  art  /uni2219  theatre  /uni2219  community  /uni2219 /uni2219  community  /uni2219  theatre  /uni2219  art  /uni2219  music  /uni2219  dance  /uni2219  film  /uni2219
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11
Trey Tucker Band / The Pine Drape
High Dive
210 SW Second Ave.
8 p.m.  | Advance $6, Door $8
Pizza & Beer
First Magnitude Brewing
1220 SE Veitch St.
4 p.m.  | Free EventHaile Farmers Market
Haile Village Center
SE 91 T errace
8:30 a.m.  | Free Event
Peter and the Starcatcher
The Hippodrome State Theatre
25 SE Second Place
5 p.m.  | $15-$35SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 13
Gainesville Food T our
Downtown Restaurants 
and Landmarks
10:45 p.m.  | $48.99
A T. rex. Named Sue
Florida Museum of Natural History
3215 Hull Road
10 p.m.  | Free EventBy Mariana Riquezes
Avenue Writer
A musician, puppeteer, paint-
er, street performer and actor will 
be performing in Gainesville on 
Tuesday — and it’s all the same 
person.
Known for his work on Adult 
Swim and “The Junior Christian 
Teaching Bible Lesson Program,” 
David Liebe Hart, who has also appeared on “The Daily Show” and “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” is a character like no other.
Liebe Hart is no stranger to the 
spotlight, but recently he decided to change things up by combining music, puppets and videos into 
his current tour — something he 
has never done before.
“This show is different; I’m 
doing electronic music, whereas before I was a punk-rock band,” 
said Liebe Hart.
The comedian will perform at 
9 p.m. on Tuesday at High Dive, 
located at 210 SW Second Ave. 
Tickets can be purchased for 
$12 at the door or for $10 in ad-vance on ticketﬂ  y.com.
Liebe Hart is certain his old 
and new fans will love some of 
his new material, which he wrote 
in collaboration with music pro-ducer Jonah Mociun.
While many of Liebe Hart’s 
fans are familiar with his early music — which he wrote and performed for the “Tim and Eric 
Awesome Show, Great Job!” —
Liebe Hart regrettably said he can no longer perform any of those songs because Warner Bros. owns them.
However, he recently released 
a new album, “Astronaut,” in which he sings about aliens, ghosts, women, living a vegan lifestyle and UFOs.He said he “wrote a song about 
living in a haunted house in Chi-cago with two ghosts known as the Pickle Man and Mr. Moose.”
Another one of his songs, 
“New Technology,” is based on how his cousin Phyllis McKen-nan, who worked with the FBI, conﬁ  ded in him with secret infor-mation.
“She shared with me that the 
GPS was something that they (FBI) got from working with the extraterrestrials,” Liebe Hart said, 
“and how the extraterrestrials 
used the GPS to travel through space from one part of the galaxy to another.”
Along with some of his new 
songs, the performer said his mu-sic producer helped him develop a better and more professional tour this time around.
Liebe Hart mentioned some of 
his personal artwork and videos will be projected onto the stage to complement his music and stand-up comedy.
“This tour also has more pup-
pets, and I do stand-up comedy in this tour, which I didn’t do in my other tour,” Liebe Hart said, 
referring to his previous tour with 
performer and musician Adam Papagan.
Pat Lavery, owner of local 
booking company Glory Days 
Presents, said he wanted Liebe 
Hart to perform at High Dive because it’s known for bring-ing up-and-coming comedians 
to Gainesville before the main-
stream is aware of them.
Lavery said the audience 
should expect Liebe Hart’s show to have music, stand-up, stories, 
puppets, videos and more.
He also felt Liebe Hart’s show 
is “quirky, to say the least.”THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
David Liebe Hart, best known for his work on Adult Swim’s “Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great 
Job!, ” will be performing his comedy show at 9 p.m. Tuesday at High Dive.
Comedian David Liebe Hart to perform in GNV Tuesday
The live show includes puppets, musicTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious at-mosphere. $425/mo includes high speed in-ternet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 352-631-0737    9-11-15-12-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-30-15-29-2
● HOUSE FOR RENT - 2927 SW 1st Ave ●
Directly across from UF Golf Coursel
4-5BR/3BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Only $1,775/month
No application fee, all pets ok.
352-258-0025
9-11-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-9-15-73 -10 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
● 20 PIECE WILD TURKEY DECANTER 
COLLECTION (3 miniatures go with col-lection for free.) $1500. ● VALUABLE 
PLAYBOY MAGAZINES - 2000 - 2012 . $1500.  Call Lloyd at 352-262-4390.    9-10-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
2007 HYUNDAI ENTOURAGELike new, 6-cyl, Front-wheel drive, gas, 115,800 mi, gold, clean title. Nice, extra clean, ready to go! Leather, sunroof, DVD, full capt chairs, running-board, loaded. $6500. 352-226-7251    9-10-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course 
creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
P/T cleaner needed for offices,apartments, and homes. Must have own transportation and be able to pass a background/reference/drug test..weekly pay and hrly rate of 8.25/hr..if interested please call 352-214-0868    9-10-5-14
 
ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
352 Inc. is looking for a rockstar admin to work 20-25 hrs/week Mon-Fri. in a fun and creative working environment. Looking for someone who is proactive, reliable and hardworking. If interested please send re-sume and schedule to lclifton@352inc.com.    9-14-15-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE DANCE CLASS - CARDIO-A-GO-GOThis Thursday, Sept 10th, 6pmThe Lingerie Co. - 2614 SW 34th St. Calltoday to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    9-10-15-4-21
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Becky Burleigh and 
Florida's soccer team opens Southeastern Conference play tonight against No. 6 T exas A&M. Read the story on pg. 18. Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at@alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics.UF WILL CLOSE WEEKEND 
AGAINST SAN DIEGO STATE.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
The Florida volleyball team may be in 
Hawaii, but they’re not on vacation.
It’s a business trip, if anything, for the 
Gators.
No. 2 UF (4-0) takes on Eastern Wash-
ington (4-3) and No. 16 Hawaii (5-1) in 
Honolulu tonight at 10:30 and 1 a.m. Fri-
day, respectively. 
UF will then ﬁ  nish its trip at the 2015 
Outrigger Resorts Volleyball Challenge 
against San Diego State on Saturday at 8:30 p.m.
While it may seem like just another 
volleyball tournament for the Gators, there’s much more time management that goes into it.
Just like any other student, they still 
have schoolwork.
“We all have classes, so we’re gonna 
have to stay on top of that,” sophomore outside hitter Carli Snyder said. 
“[We] can’t just be like, ‘oh two week 
vacation to play some volleyball.’”
Head coach Mary Wise said before the 
trip that her players would be studying on the plane and in the hotel.
“That’s part of college athletics is learn-
ing to be proactive in the schoolwork,” 
Wise said. 
“Get work done ahead of time, com-
municate with the professors [and] take By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Like the season opener, Florida 
won’t name a ﬁ  rst-string quarter-
back for Saturday’s game against 
East Carolina, coach Jim McEl-
wain said Wednesday. 
Instead, McElwain said he ex-
pects to use a game plan similar to 
the one against New Mexico State, 
with quarterbacks Will Grier and Treon Harris rotating series.
The only question remaining, 
is who will take the ﬁ  eld for the 
ﬁ  rst drive.
“We’re going to basically do 
the same thing,” McElwain said. 
“Which guy is going to trot out 
there ﬁ  rst we’re going to visit af-
ter tonight’s practice, but it will be very similar.”
Grier and Harris have created 
little separation between each 
other for the starting quarterback 
role, but McElwain doesn’t see it as a problem. 
He likes the progress both 
have made, and could envision the Gators using multiple quarter-backs throughout the season.
“I’m looking for consistency in 
performance at all positions, not just the quarterback spot,” McEl-wain said. 
“(Grier and Harris) were OK in the last game. They weren’t great. It wasn’t earth-shattering 
by any stretch of the imagination. They’ve got to get a ton better. I look for them to hopefully take 
another step this week.”
That step apparently wasn’t 
taken Wednesday, and McElwain didn’t hold back his frustration. He said the quarterbacks made 
several poor decisions when the offense was practicing red-zone situations. 
The ﬁ  rst-year Florida coach re-
peated “you don’t get do-overs” 
on poor throws, not even during 
mid-week practice.
“If you want me to call it out, 
we had two late throws in the 
red area today. It can’t happen,” 
McElwain said. 
“We had one late (throw) over 
the middle that’s gonna get inter-cepted. That’s unacceptable. And 
those are things that kill you, the 
unacceptable behavior, when you know better.”
Regardless of the progress the 
quarterbacks make before Satur-day, the Gators will be missing one of their contributors — senior wide receiver Latroy Pittman — against the Pirates.
For the ﬁ  fth game in his career, 
Pittman was suspended, and un-able to contribute against New Mexico State. 
After initially calling it a one-
game suspension, Pittman ﬁ  gured to be reincorporated into UF’s of-fense this week.
But McElwain revealed 
Wednesday that Pittman hasn’t completed his suspension just yet.
Gators add assistant coach to softball staff
Florida softball coach Tim Walton announced the addition of Doug Mirabelli 
to UF's staff as a volunteer assistant coach. Mirabelli spent 11 years in the Major Leagues, retiring after the 2008 season. He is a two-time World Series Champion and a former ﬁ  fth-round pick in the 1992 MLB Draft. Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier runs for a touchdown during Florida's 61-13 win against New Mexico State 
on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
Gators to use similar quarterback rotation against ECU 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
JUST SOME HACK
It’s time for Roger Goodell to give up his disciplinary powers.
After having yet anoth-
er suspension reduced or 
overturned — this time in the 
Deﬂ  ategate case — coupled with a new ESPN report on the NFL commissioner’s handling 
of Spygate, it’s clear Goodell is 
unﬁ  t to hand out fair, well-reasoned pun-ishments.
When the last collective bargaining 
agreement was drawn up between NFL owners and the NFL Players’ Association in 2011, nobody seemed to realize that giv-ing the commissioner the power to judge, sentence and hear appeals was a bad idea.
There were other issues on the table 
that both sides deemed more important at the time, and as such, it went unad-dressed.
Because of that, Goodell has every right 
to determine and rule on all player pun-ishments, a terribly ﬂ  awed sys-tem with anyone in charge.
But Goodell, a man whose 
decisions have been incon-sistent, unfair and made for public relations purposes, not justice, has proven he is one 
of the last people who should 
have such power. And if he cares about the credibility of 
the league, he will relinquish that power and give it to someone else.
We don’t have to look far for evidence 
of the commissioner’s failure to act fairly.
In the Ray Rice domestic violence case 
from 2014, Goodell vastly underestimated 
the scale of the crime and didn’t pursue 
the facts to the fullest extent, ultimately handing down a two-game suspension. That was obviously a mistake.
But after video of the incident was 
made available to the public, the com-missioner reacted to the public outcry by NFL needs to rid itself of Goodell
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 19
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24Florida volleyball set for 
doubleheader in Hawaii McElwain unsure who will start
“W e all have classes, so we’re gonna 
have to stay on top of that.”
Carli Snyder
UF outside hitter18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
The No. 10 Gators soccer team will open 
Southeastern Conference play tonight, as 
they host the reigning conference champs, 
No. 6 Texas A&M, at Donald R. Dizney Sta-
dium at 7.
This will be Florida’s first home game 
at Dizney Stadium this season, taking a 
break from James G. Pressly Stadium for 
the evening — the site of two home wins against then-No.1 Florida State and Okla-homa State.
Since the Aggies (5-1-0) joined the SEC 
in 2012, both teams have won one outright conference title apiece. 
In 2013, UF and TAMU were co-SEC 
champs after posting identical 9-2 confer-ence records.
Texas A&M comes into tonight’s SEC 
opener as defending conference champi-ons, led by coach G Guerrieri.
However, the Aggies come into 
Gainesville after a big loss against Florida State, who the Gators beat 3-2 on Aug. 30.
Florida (4-1-0) coach Becky Burleigh 
said on Monday that TAMU’s loss to FSU may spark a fire under the Aggies.
“I know (Guerrieri) pretty well, and I’m 
sure he’s repurposing that loss as a great opportunity to focus his team,” Burleigh said.Aside from the loss to the Seminoles, 
Guerrieri and his team will come into 
Gainesville tonight with another incentive 
to take down the Gators: To avenge last year’s 1-0 home loss.
On Oct. 3, the then-No. 6 Gators took 
on the then-No. 9 Aggies in College Sta-tion, Texas.
UF and TAMU both entered the mid-
season contest at Ellis Field with respec-tive four and five-game winning streaks. 
The Aggies had yet to lose at home.Florida set to open SEC play at home against Texas A&M
“It was one of our best games that we 
played.”
Liz Slattery
UF junior midfielderSOCCER
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 20Neal practiced W ednesday for the 
first time since the end of Fall campTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
“He’s got a little time to go,” McElwain said. 
“It’s about earning your way back, doing what’s 
right every single day.”
McElwain wants Pittman to make the most out 
of his final season as a Gator, but that won’t hap-pen until Pittman does the necessary things to get there.  
“It’s his choice. It’s no one else’s,” McElwain 
said. 
“It’s not anything you did, it’s not anything that 
coach did, it’s a choice that each one of us make every day of our lives.”
If it was Martez Ivey’s choice, the freshman 
would be out there practicing with the Gators.
McElwain provided an update on Ivey’s condi-
tion, saying he’s “probably still a week away, how-ever he’s done great and should be back ready to go.”
Ivey reportedly slightly tore his meniscus and 
his recovery was estimated to be between two and four weeks. 
Yet McElwain said Ivey “may actually get a cou-
ple reps tomorrow, we’ll see what happens after we get it looked at again.” 
Junior cornerback Keanu Neal returned to prac-
tice Wednesday after missing the season-opener 
with a leg injury suffered in the final scrimmage of 
Fall camp. 
Defensive backs coach Kirk Callahan said Neal’s 
return to the field will immediately be noticeable.
“Leadership, toughness are two things that jump 
out (about Neal),” Callahan said. 
“He’s very serious in that he takes everything 
that he does seriously, whether that’s practice, technique, film study.
“Things that he puts in off the field (are) going 
to show up on Saturdays when he’s out there.”FOOTBALL,  from pg17making new rules for domestic abuse and suspended Rice in-definitely. 
The problem was the new 
rules weren’t in place when the 
incident occurred, and even if 
it had, an indefinite suspension didn’t follow the new rules any-way. There was no basis or prec-
edent for that type of penalty.
As much as you might abhor 
Rice’s actions, you can’t make 
up punishments on the spot, and you certainly can’t double pun-
ish someone.
Goodell did the same thing 
shortly after with Greg Hardy, 
who was initially charged for an 
incident with his girlfriend be-
fore the charges were eventually dropped. 
Despite the fact that the in-cident occurred before the new 
domestic violence policy was in 
place, the commissioner gave him a 10-game suspension, like-ly to quell the public backlash.
The 10 games were reduced 
to four by an arbitrator, who cited how there was, of course, no precedent for Goodell to levy such a suspension.
And most recently, ESPN’s 
Outside the Lines reported that the recently nullified four-game suspension of Tom Brady was 
a “makeup call” for not going 
after the Patriots hard enough during the 2007 Spygate scandal because he didn’t want the spot-light from an investigation.
Instead, Goodell opted to 
downplay the scope of the or-ganization’s spying and had evidence destroyed that would 
have revealed just how far back 
the Patriots had been involved in the practice.
With that in mind, he went 
after the organization and Brady, having to prove to the public and, most importantly, the other 
owners that he wouldn’t play fa-
vorites.
That’s the big problem.Goodell hasn’t made his deci-
sions based on rules with the in-
tention of fitting the crime with 
the punishment. 
Instead, his first reaction is 
always public or private dam-
age control, and he’s willing to 
suspend the established laws of the league to save face for the league, one way or the other.
The NFL needs a judge who 
will make decisions based on fairness, completely unattached to the league’s interests.
And that has not, is not, and 
will not be Roger Goodell. COLUMN,  from pg17
AP Photo
New England Patriots quarterback T om Brady throws a pass against the Seattle Seahawks 
during the first half of NFL Super Bowl XLIX in Glendale, Arizona. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mackenzie Dagostino sets the ball during Florida's 3-0 win against Idaho on Aug. 30, 2014, in the O'Connell Center. 
advantage of the down time that 
there is.”
But the Gators will have their 
work cut out on the court too.
The 16th ranked Rainbow Wa-
hine boast a .266 hitting percent-age and one of the best hitters in 
junior Nikki Taylor, whose five 
kills per set ranks 7th in the na-tion.
But Florida has the blocking 
ability to stop a player like Tay-
lor.
Sophomore middle blocker 
Rhamat Alhassan leads the nation 
with 2.5 blocks per set, a main 
reason UF’s 3.18 blocks per set 
are eighth best in the country. 
Alhassan's work has not gone 
unnoticed outside Gainesville. 
The Glenarden, Maryland, na-
tive was named the Sports Im-ports/AVCA Division I National Player of the Week on Tuesday af-ter recording a team-high 13 kills, 
two service aces and nine blocks 
in UF's 3-1 upset over then-No. 3 Texas at the VERT Challenge. 
The Gators have also been po-
tent on the offensive side of the 
ball.
Florida’s .330 hitting percent-age is third in the nation — led 
by three players hitting over .400 in Simone Antwi, Ziva Recek and 
Alhassan.
And while Hawaii has Taylor, 
Florida has junior right-side hitter Alex Holston, who leads the team 
with 3.93 kills per set.
Eastern Washington isn’t as 
formidable an opponent as Ha-waii.
The Eagles come into tonight’s 
match with a .209 hitting percent-age, which is ranked 147th in the nation.
Between the double header 
and managing her courses, senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino said it’ll be easier than it seems.
“We are student-athletes, we 
have to balance workouts, school, practice, traveling...all the time,” Dagostino said. 
“So it is an extended period of 
time, but I think we’re all pretty good at it and we’re gonna be OK with it.”VOLLEYBALL,  from pg17Florida's 3.18 blocks per 
set is good for eighth 
best in the country 
“W e are student-athletes, we 
have to balance workouts, 
school, practice, traveling...all 
the time”
Mackenzie Dagostino
UF senior setter20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
The Aggies are averaging three goals per game this season
A late-game goal by junior forward Sa-
vannah Jordan, along with some solid play 
from the defense and former goalkeeper 
Taylor Burke, led to the road win for the Gators.
“It was one of our best games that we 
played,” junior midﬁ  elder Liz Slattery said 
of the 2014 victory over the Aggies.
Now, the focus for Florida is playing its 
ﬁ  rst game on its SEC schedule, and Bur-leigh is aware that, regardless of the op-ponent, the importance of this game is getting the ﬁ  rst conference matchup out of the way.
“Starting SEC play is just another part 
of our progress,” Burleigh said on Monday. 
“It’ll be a great experience for this team 
to know what it feels like to play in an SEC game.”
Playing a team of TAMU’s caliber early 
in the season can help the Gators deter-mine how good they really are and what they need to work on for the rest of the conference schedule. 
Burleigh will especially be looking to 
Florida’s defensive to slow down Texas A&M’s attack. 
The Aggies present the best offensive 
attack in the conference thus far, scoring 
an average of three goals per game this 
season.
TAMU also leads the conference in 
shots per game and corner kicks per game.
UF’s back line will face a signiﬁ  cant test 
by the Aggies’ forwards, led by sophomore Haley Pounds, whose ﬁ  ve goals and four assists gives her a share of the SEC lead in points with 14. 
Burleigh understands this, and the con-
cept of facing such a tough opponent to begin conference play entices her. 
“They’re really gonna push us to the 
limit, and I’m really excited about that, to 
see how we respond.”By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
MAJORS
Anthony DeSclafani, 
Cincinnati Reds
The Reds may be terrible, as their 
57-80 record suggests, but a bright 
spot for Cincinnati is the way An-
thony DeSclafani has pitched this 
season.
In his last 20 innings, the right-
handed starter is 1-1 while allowing ﬁ  ve earned runs and striking out 19. His 8-10 record is a product of the team’s poor play, but his 3.75 ERA this year indicates Cincinnati may have a consistent starter for its ro-tation going forward. The Reds will look to build around young players 
like DeSclafani after trading away 
pieces like ace Johnny Cueto at the trade deadline in July.  
Preston Tucker, 
Houston Astros
After a four-month stay in the 
MLB, Preston Tucker was sent down to the AAA-level Fresno Grizzlies un-
til rosters expanded on Sept. 1.
Since being recalled, Tucker 
hasn’t received a ton of playing time, 
but has gone 3-for-9 in ﬁ  ve games for the Astros. Regardless of how Houston ﬁ  nishes the season, Tucker will have produced an encouraging rookie year. He’s slugged 12 home runs and knocked in 32 RBIs to ac-
company a .253 line so far this year.
Mike Zunino, 
Seattle Mariners
Mike Zunino’s season never took 
off.
After hitting just .160 in the ﬁ  rst 
half of the season as the Mariners’ 
everyday catcher, he came back in 
the second half to hit .210. Zunino, 
the third overall pick in the 2012 MLB Draft, hit just .174 with 11 home runs and 28 RBIs in 112 games this year.
Not only was his average the worst among all catchers with at least 100 games, but also it was the worst among all players with at least 
100 games. Zunino was sent to the 
instructional league once rosters ex-panded on Sept. 1 and won’t likely be back with the club this season.
MINORS
Harrison Bader, 
Peoria Chiefs
The Class-A Peoria Chiefs are in 
the middle of a playoff run, partly because of Harrison Bader’s play.
Over the last 10 games, Bader hit 
.300 with three home runs and ﬁ  ve RBIs. In 61 total games for the Chiefs and State College Spikes of the New York-Penn League, he’s hit .311 and amassed 11 home runs, 32 RBIs and 17 stolen bases.
Josh Tobias, 
Williamsport Crosscutters
The Class-A short-season Wil-
liamsport Crosscutters are also in the playoffs with the help of second baseman Josh Tobias.
Tobias has compiled a steady 
.368 average with one home run, four RBIs and four stolen bases over his last 10 games, showing he’s heat-
ing up in time for the postseason. His 
season line is also pretty gaudy, as he boasts a .321 average with four home runs and 12 stolen bases. Former Gators providing support for major-league teamsGATORS IN MLB
SOCCER,  from pg 18
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Liz Slattery (16) dribbles the ball during Florida’s 3-0 win against Miami on Aug. 
22, 2014, at James G. Pressly Stadium. 