We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 31 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
Florida soccer intends to keep 
using two goalkeeper rotation
Redshirt junior Val Tysinger and freshman 
Kaylan Marckese have both impressed, pg. 14
Students plan to Kill the Cup
A new competition urges students to bring reusable cups to the Library West Starbucks, pg. 3
Agriculture program provides local produce
Students can register to receive baskets of produce from local farms, pg. 8Under the sky
Students and locals enjoy the fall weather. Check out the photo story,  pg. 9
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
TAKING TIME TO RECLINE
Kyle Stoughton (from left), a marketing student, jokes with Lydia Hensel, a health science student, and Cassie Hicks, a family, 
youth and community sciences student, by Lake Alice on Monday. The three 19-year-old UF sophomores hung around the lake to take a break from studying. Hensel said there are a lot of opportunities around campus to use her hammock, especially “when the weather gets nice. ”
By Jessica Morales
Alligator Contributing Writer
While most restaurants in Mid-
town focus on dinner, a new res-taurant is putting the emphasis on breakfast
Krazy G’s, a restaurant under 
construction in the building next to Shuck Restaurant & Raw Bar, will soon begin serving all meals to Mid-town passersby — including break-fast from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m, said Bob D’Alessio, the co-owner of Krazy G’s.  
For the past 15 years, D’Alessio 
said he has wanted to open up a res-
taurant in the area — speciﬁ  cally a 
restaurant that serves all three meals.
“I think there is a big need for 
breakfast around here,” he said, adding that he’s watched other res-
taurants unsuccessfully try to serve breakfast in the past.
The building renovations will cost 
around $300,000, including the large deck that is being built to host out-
door seating and a smoker for meat, 
D’Alessio said. He hopes to open the 
restaurant before the UF homecom-ing game.
The restaurant will be located in the old building, but Chris Fragale, co-owner and chef at Krazy G’s, doesn’t want to stick with the old-
house theme.
“We’ve been doing that in the 
past and we want to change our 
ways, so we’re going more modern with our food,” Fragale said.New Midtown restaurant is Krazy for breakfast
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Second-year UF medical student Ansley Schul-
te revamped HealthQueer Alliance last year with 
two goals in mind: to educate the health science community on LGBTQ+ health and to create safe spaces for the LGBTQ+ community.
After the organization was inactive for several 
years, Schulte, 23, said she will see those goals become a reality through its Trans Health Month events in October.  
The ﬁ  rst event is a cultural competency work-
shop Monday, she said. Schulte said the events will educate health science students on how to 
properly treat transgender patients.
“If you ask pretty much every trans person 
who has been to a doctor, they’ll say that the doc-
tor asked them very inappropriate questions that were not medically necessary,” she said.
The month’s workshops and panels lead up 
to the main event, Trans Health Night, Schulte said. On Oct. 29 at 6 p.m., the Equal Access Clinic at 1707 N. Main St. will become a safe space for 
trans patients to receive care.
HealthQueer Alliance treasurer Jeffrey Ferrell 
said Trans Health Night is a step in the right direc-
tion to changing the way transgender patients are treated.
“We need providers in the community who are 
willing to step out and say, ‘I’m friendly and will-ing to take care of trans people,’” the 23-year-old said.   Transgender 
health month 
to kick oﬀ   
THE PROGRAM WILL FOCUS ON 
SIX COUNTRIES IN WEST AND 
EAST AFRICA AND SOUTH ASIA.
By Jennifer Louissaint
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gator Nation is everywhere — in-
cluding Africa and Asia.
Thanks to a $49 million grant from the 
U.S. Agency for International Development, UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences will work to feed the world and end hunger in Africa and Asia. With the money, the university was able to start the initiative with the Feed the Future Innovation Lab for 
Livestock Systems, which was created at the 
beginning of the month, said Adegbola Ad-esogan, the program’s director.
The lab targets six countries in West and 
East Africa and South Asia. It aims to in-crease livestock productivity as well as the incomes and nutrition of livestock stakehold-ers within these countries, Adesogan said.
“(The grant) shows that American people 
care, the generosity of our people in attempts to help the most vulnerable,” Adesogan said.
Women will be an important part of the 
initiative, as they do the bulk of farming in the countries being helped, he said. 
UF animal sciences senior Christian Keen 
said he thinks the lab is a great opportunity for women.
“It’s great because it impacts people all 
over the world,” the 21-year-old said.IFAS awarded grant to end world hunger SEE RESTAURANT,  PAGE 4It will be next to Shuck
“W e need providers in the community 
who are willing to step out and say, ‘I’m 
friendly and willing to take care of trans 
people.’”
Jeffrey Ferrell
HealthQueer Alliance treasurerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
She’s the First
She’s the First UF is hosting its 
first annual #DayOfTheGirlUF 
summit on Sunday from 9 a.m. 
to 2:30 p.m. in celebration of International Day of the Girl Child. This event will be a 
half-day conference made up 
of speakers, panels and work-shops. The goal is to bring awareness to the community about current issues regard-
ing women, health, careers, 
education and more. For more details, visit dayofthegirluf.splashthat.com.
Death row guest speaker
Death row chaplain Dale Recinella will speak today at St. Augustine Catholic Church 
and Student Center in the 
church library, located at 1738 W. University Ave. The public is invited to the free event to 
hear about Recinella’s 25 years 
in prison ministry and what he has learned about the death penalty. His talk is entitled “Florida’s Machinery of Death: 
Who is the Killing For?” The 
public can learn why he be-lieves everyone — prison staff, victims’ families, inmates’ 
families — are harmed by the 
death penalty. Refreshments will be served during a Q&A session. Parking is free in the church lot. For more infor-
mation, contact Gainesville 
Citizens for Alternatives to the Death Penalty at 352-378-1690.
Fast-A-Thon
Fast-A-Thon is Islam on Campus’ biggest event of the year. It is held annually at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. 
Fast-A-Thon is a day on which 
students and community mem-bers are asked to fast for a day. The IOC will donate money to 
Project Downtown Gainesville, 
which feeds the homeless and hungry in Gainesville every Saturday and Sunday, and Islamic Relief USA’s Nepal 
Disaster Response, which is 
an independent humanitarian and development organization with a presence in more than 
40 countries around the globe. 
The event itself is a huge ban-quet to break the fast and in-cludes free dinner for all the attendees. Fast-A-Thon will be 
6:30 p.m. today. Pledge to fast online at islamoncampus.com/
events/fast-a-thon/.
African Americans in Paris 
class informationAt 2 p.m. Wednesday, Sharon Austin, director of the African 
American Studies Program and 
associate professor of political science, will provide informa-tion about her (POS/AFA 4940) 
African Americans in Paris 
class in the second-floor con-ference room of the Institute of Black Culture on West University Avenue. The two- 
to three-credit hour course will 
be offered in Paris, France dur-ing Spring Break 2016.  Please contact Austin at polssdw.ufl.
edu for more information.
Mid-Autumn Festival show
UF’s Chinese American 
Student Association and 
Chinese Student Association 
are hosting a Mid-Autumn Festival show Saturday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
There will be free food and a 
variety of performances fea-turing individuals from the UF and Gainesville commu-nity. The show will also fea-
ture cultural activities and free 
raffles. Mid-Autumn is a time to celebrate the harvest, the moon and being with family. 
The show, “Coming Home: A 
Journey Through China,” will incorporate these themes in narrative woven between per-formances. The show is free 
and for all ages. Doors open at 
6 p.m., and the show starts at 6:30 p.m.
UFIC and the Fulbright Lecture 
Committee workshopUFIC and the Fulbright Lecture Committee will present a “What I Need to Prepare If I 
Receive a Fulbright Award and 
Go Abroad” workshop on Oct. 24 from 9 a.m. to noon. This workshop will be presented 
by clinical assistant and pro-
fessor of nursing Karen Reed. Reed was a Fulbright Scholar in Cambodia for the 2013-2014 academic year. There she 
taught as a visiting professor at 
the Kampot Regional Training Center in Kampot, Cambodia, as well as conducted profes-
sional development programs 
for Cambodian nursing faculty, nurses and nursing administra-tors.Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-tidisciplinary clinic at the 
UF Levin College of Law that 
serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. The program provides free and 
confidential legal representa-
tion, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigration and restraining or-
ders for the protection against 
domestic violence. The pro-gram also has a social worker who specializes in intimate 
partner violence and provides 
counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable 
community resources. If you 
or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 352-273-0805 or email drake@
law.ufl.edu.
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
Comedy
Free stand-up comedy features UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals every 
Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret. The show features professional co-medians and amateur comics 
tearing up the stage. Feeling 
funny? Show up before 9 p.m. and sign up for our comedy open mic.  The comedy work-shop at 8 p.m. is hosted by lo-
cal pros. Visit  facebook.com/
gainesvillecomedyshowcase.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening?” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after above events and 
keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper. 
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 31
HIGH  81° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
  Mia Gettenberg
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
PRECIOUS PUP
Stay-at-home mom Shelley Rose and her 9-year-old daughter Nevaeh Rose 
greet a 6-month-old Weimaraner and Labrador Retriever mix named Gan-dalf at Haisley Lynch Park on Monday. “My daughters and I have been doing nothing but sitting outside, ” Rose said. “It ﬁ  nally feels like fall. ”
CAMPUS
By Danitza Yukopila
Alligator Contributing Writer
Donald Pemberton is work-
ing to ensure all students get a 
chance at success.
Pemberton, the UF College of 
Education’s Lastinger Center for 
Learning director, has offered 
underprivileged students that opportunity through Take Stock In Children, an organization he founded 20 years ago.
Recently, the National Col-
lege Access Network awarded Pemberton the Bob Craves Champion of College Access 
Award to recognize his work 
with the organization.
“There are so many young people who will be successful in 
life if simply given the opportu-
nity,” he said.
 Take Stock In Children has 
made it possible for more than 25,000 underprivileged students to attend college, Pemberton said. The program awards col-lege scholarships to high school students and provides them with 
mentors who encourage them to 
pursue higher education.
Sara Melnick, deputy director 
of the NCAN, wrote in an email that Pemberton was the natural choice for this award because he is devoted to helping students.
But Pemberton’s invest-
ment in education doesn’t stop 
at Take Stock In Children. He also created Algebra Nation, a statewide program designed to 
increase the passing rate of high schoolers on algebra end-of-course exams.
“It’s really afﬁ  rming that if 
you invest in people at a young age, they’ll be successful,” he said.
UF communication sciences 
and disorders senior Tyler Dw-yer is a Take Stock In Children scholar. He said  he started the program in middle school and worked with a mentor until he graduated.
“If it wasn’t for Take Stock 
In Children, I probably wouldn’t be here at UF,” the 21-year-old 
said. Director gives students a chance
By Gabrielle Calise
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students packing their backpacks for Library 
West might want to include a coffee mug.
Throughout October, UF’s Greeks Going Green 
and the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability will encourage stu-
dents to bring a reusable cup to Starbucks as part of 
the national Kill the Cup Campaign. Students who 
use their own mug at the Library West Starbucks can help UF win against 15 other participating uni-versities, said Rachel Reiss, a UF political science junior and the president of Greeks Going Green.
The school that uses the highest percent of re-
usable cups will win a $2,500 grant to continue implementing sustainability initiatives, the 20-year-old said.She said the Starbucks at Library West was cho-
sen to record participants because it has the highest 
coffee sales volume on campus. 
Customers who bring reusable cups get a 25-
cent discount at Starbucks, she said.
The campaign will also serve as a platform to 
educate people about sustainability. Consumers 
often think paper to-go cups can be recycled, said Allison Vitt, the outreach and communications co-ordinator for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability.
“Those cups deﬁ  nitely go to the landﬁ  ll,” Vitt 
said. “They have a lining that keeps that coffee from seeping out of it, and therefore they are not paper, they’re not plastic.” 
Nationwide, Starbucks only has a reusable cup 
rate of 1.8 percent. UF beats that average with a rate of about 3.2 percent, Vitt said.
UF English professor Pamela Gilbert buys tea 
from Starbucks at least once a day. She usually for-
gets to bring her own cup with her.
Reiss said taking a cup can become habitual.
“It’s really important, and it’s really easy for stu-
dents to do,” Reiss said.Students plan to Kill the Cup 
“They have a lining that keeps that cofee 
from seeping out of it and therefore they 
are not paper, they’re not plastic.”
Allison Vitt
outreach and communications coordinator4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
PUPPETS FOR A CAUSE
UF Alpha Epsilon Delta honor society members (from left) Sabina Braverman, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology senior; Alex Huellssman, a 22-year-old UF biology senior; Jamie Luntz, a 19-year-old UF health science sophomore; and Michelle Smith, a 19-year-old UF health science sophomore rehearse for a puppet show in the Reitz Union Breezeway on Monday.   
CONSTRUCTION ON 
CAMPUS TAKES AWAY 
PARKING SPOTS.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Alexis Smith can’t drive to cam-
pus.
Instead, the animal sciences 
freshman has to drive her Honda 
Fit from her scholarship house on 
Southwest ninth Street to the park-
ing lot at Southwest Recreation Center. From there, she has to take the bus to her classes.
“It’s just not effective,” the 
18-year-old said.
Smith is just one student strug-
gling to find parking on campus, especially after UF had to move 
three parking lots this Fall due to 
new buildings being constructed. The construction of the new chem-istry building on a parking lot re-moved about 108 spaces, and the parking lot across from Daur Hall was also taken due to construc-tion, according to Scott Fox, the di-rector of UF’s Transportation and Parking Services.
But as a result, Fox said, spac-
es, including carpool and disabil-ity spaces, have moved and a new parking garage is in the works.
Transportation and Parking Ser-
vices also found that not all of the 
carpool spaces were being used, he 
said.
“On any given day, there were a 
lot of empty spaces,” he said. 
Yet, with the moving of carpool 
and disabled spaces, the lack of parking became an issue for UF faculty and students alike.
Mark Sterling, an IT specialist at UF, said he tried to join the carpool program last May but was told he would have to check back in June to see if there would be room for him to join the program.
The carpool program used to be 
free and offer faculty closer spots 
as an incentive to join the pro-
gram, Sterling said. Now, the de-cals cost $150 per person per year.
Fox said UF is not getting rid 
of the carpool program. He said a new policy makes carpool spaces available to other decal holders af-ter 9:30 a.m. 
“I could see why those people think they’re not being let in,” he said.
There are currently about 260 
carpool groups, Fox said. 
Fox said his department is look-
ing to expand parking by convert-ing the McCarty Parking Lot into a 
garage. The location was approved 
to be converted into a parking ga-rage and Parking and Transporta-tion Services is now trying to se-cure funding for the project.
The problem is that UF puts 
buildings on parking lots, Fox said.
“It’s tricky,” he said. “It’s 
tricky.”
UF looks for solutions to student and faculty parking woes
Because the restaurant will be lo-
cated near UF’s campus, D’Alessio 
said he sees the restaurant as a place where students and faculty can come for lunch and get a quick bite to eat.
While the restaurant will serve all 
meals, D’Alessio is the most excited about the late night breakfast. He plans reintroduce the Asher Special to students and the Gainesville com-munity. This dish was once served at Skeeter’s Breakfast House, a popular local restaurant that closed in 1995.
“None of them were born 
when Skeeter’s was in existence,” D’Alessio said, describing the dish as home fries or hash browns covered in melted cheese and eggs. “I think it’ll be attractive to a lot of professors and staff.”
TJ Holmes, a 20-year-old UF sport 
management junior, said he thinks the new restaurant in Midtown is a good idea.
“When I leave from Shucks or 
one of the bars down here, I actu-ally want to eat breakfast instead of always having to go to Pizza by the Slice or something to get dinner,” Holmes said.
For Sydney Malveaux, a shift 
manager at Pita Pit, the new restau-rant and the breakfast option might bring some competition.
“That might give us a little bit of 
a run for our money, I think,” the 21-year-old UF criminology and law senior said of the late night breakfast option.
“That’s definitely smart, and I’m 
sure it’ll appeal to a lot of people.”
RESTAURANT,  from pg1It is intended to open before homecomingCAMPUS
By Katelyn Vogt
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF School of Physician Assistant Studies 
will celebrate 50 years of the field this week.
Today, the school’s Class of 2017 will kick 
off P.A. week, which honors physician assis-
tants and their contribution to health care. The 
week coincides with National P.A. Day today, 
along with the birthday of the profession’s founder, Eugene A. Stead Jr. The celebration will end Monday.
On Thursday night, there will be a recep-
tion and discussion panel called “The Evolu-tion of the Physician Assistant Profession, 1965-2015.” The talk will be held in the re-cently opened George T. Harrell, M.D., Medical 
Education Building and feature a panel of prac-
ticing P.A.s, said Ashley Giddings, president of UF P.A. Studies Class of 2017.About 120 faculty, P.A.s, students and com-
munity members are expected to attend, the  UF P.A. Studies first-year graduate student said. Both medical and P.A. students are in-vited.
“It’s a way to bridge past, present and fu-
ture physician assistants,” Giddings, 24, said.  
UF P.A. Studies first-year graduate student 
Lindsey Culbreth said the panel offers students a great chance to network with practicing P.A.s.
“To be able to sit down and eat with them 
and talk to them, it’s a really great opportu-nity,” the 22-year-old said.
The P.A. Studies Class of 2017 officers and 
faculty planned the week’s activities, which in-clude spirit days and a team competition based 
on participation, Giddings said.  
Today, she and her classmates will cel-
ebrate the founder’s birthday with cake.UF students celebrate 50 years of physician assistant education
IT’S TO CELEBRATE THE 
SUMMER ISLAMIC 
HOLIDAY RAMADAN 
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF chemical engineering fresh-
man Yasir Nagi’s last meal was 
Gator Dining leftovers — Philly steak-and-cheese Hot Pockets. 
He won’t eat again until he goes 
to the Stephen C. O’Connell Center tonight.
The 18-year-old is forgoing food 
during Islam on Campus’ Fast-a-Thon, which mirrors the sum-mer Islamic holiday Ramadan. About 700 people will participate, breaking their daylong fast in the O’Connell Center.  
“The purpose of fasting is to 
develop our powers of self control and self restraint, and also to expe-rience how the less fortunate live their lives,” Nagi said.
Fast-a-Thon is an annual UF 
event that explains what fasting is and why it’s important to the Islamic faith, Rashhan Siddique, a 
20-year-old UF electrical engineer-
ing junior, said. Ramadan has two purposes. The first is to attain Al-lah’s (the Islamic god) conscious-ness and be aware that Allah is in our daily lives, and the second is to feel thankful for everything you have.
For every person who partici-
pates, UF Islam on Campus will donate $5 to two organizations, one local and one international, said Siddique, one of the event’s organizers. Some of the dona-tions will go to Project Downtown Gainesville, which provides food for homeless people on Bo Did-
dley Downtown Community Plaza. 
Money will also be donated to Is-lamic Relief Worldwide, which provides relief abroad, Siddique said.
The breaking-of-the-fast event 
will kick off at 6:30 p.m. with a 
dinner catered by Golden Dynasty 
Chinese, a restaurant in Orlando. This year’s festivities will also in-clude AbdelRahman Murphy, who will speak of the spiritual impor-tance of fasting and his experiences as a Muslim convert, Siddique said. Murphy will be paid $2,400 hono-rarium, which will cover his flight and hotel.
Nagi, who was raised Muslim, 
said he feels close to the Muslim community when he fasts. He said he felt that sense of togetherness in his hometown of Pembroke Pines, Florida, and he said he hopes he will feel the same way at the Fast-a-Thon.
“I hope to find people who are 
open-minded with Islam and peo-ple who are willing to learn about what it means to fast,” he said. UF students skip  
food for Fast-a-Thon 
“The purpose of fasting is to 
develop our powers of self 
control and self restraint, 
and also to experience how 
the less fortunate live their 
lives.”
Yasir Nagi
UF chemical engineering 
freshmanNATIONAL
ASSOCIATED PRESS
The numbers jump off the page: 
Nine dead on an Oregon college 
campus, 12 in a theater in Aurora, 
Colorado. Thirteen soldiers and 
civilians at Fort Hood, Texas; 32 people at Virginia Tech; 13 at a community center in Binghamton, 
New York. Twenty-six dead — 20 
of them young children — at an el-ementary school in Newtown, Con-necticut.
Mass killings like the one Thurs-
day at the Umpqua Community Col-
lege in Roseburg, Oregon, scraped 
nerves raw, commanded headlines and prompted an anguished Presi-dent Barack Obama to take to the airwaves — again — to condemn 
gun violence.
Here’s another number: 8,124. That’s the total of homicides by 
gun in 2014, according to the FBI’s Crime in the United States report. That works out to an average of 
156 a week, more than 22 people 
shot to death every day across the country.
Dr. Helen Farrell, a forensic psy-
chiatrist who teaches at Harvard 
Medical School and is on staff at 
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Cen-ter in Boston, said people do have more interest in — and there is cer-
tainly more intense media coverage of — mass killings because they are 
relatively uncommon.
“That’s unfortunate because 
those single homicides are far more 
prevalent and cause just as much 
pain and suffering to the people in-volved,” she said.
In just the 24 hours surround-
ing Thursday’s Oregon killings, 
there were at least a dozen shoot-
ing deaths.Mass shootings grab headlines, but others go under the radar
NIGHTFALL IN GAINESVILLE“That’s unfortunate because 
those single homicides are far 
more prevalent and cause just 
as much pain and sufering to 
the people involved.”
Dr. Helen Farrell
forensic psychiatrist
Nicole Gomez 
Alliagtor Staff
Nightlife in Midtown isn’t all burgers and beers, especially 
during the week. While students reveled at Relish and 
cavorted at 101 Cantina, other Gainesville residents 
worked and relaxed in the 70-degree air Monday night.
 Security guard T errell Brown, 50, guards the Farrior Hall con-
struction site at UF. He said his night of making sure no one jumped the fence or climbed a crane hadn’t been very exciting so far. “I ain’t caught a jailbird yet, ” he said. 
Christiana Ramirez (right), a 26-year-old Bly’s School of Cosmetology student, and Mystic T obacco owner Ricardo Morales smoke hookah outside the 1219 W. University Ave. tobacco shop. Ramirez said she came with her mother, who visits every night. “The cave is really cool, ” Ramirez said, referring to the shop’s newly added hookah lounge inside.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnChristianity and gay marriage: Embrace the change
Ever since the June 26 U.S. Supreme Court 
ruling that legalized gay marriage in all 50 states, the radical Christian community has exploded in outrage. Christian pub-lic figures like Franklin Graham and Joel 
Osteen contend the foundations of Christianity itself are under attack.
Citing a supposed Thomas Jefferson quote 
(actually closer to Martin Luther King Jr.’s words in “Letter from a Birmingham Jail”), “If a law is unjust, a man is not only right to disobey it; he is obligated to do so,” Graham wrote in his column for The Christian Post, calling for Christians to op-pose the ruling in their day-to-day lives.
We have since seen many objections and arguments —  
from Kim Davis’ refusal to issue marriage licenses for gay couples to Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s refer-ence to the ruling as a “ threat to American democracy.”
In light of all this contention, last week on “The Late 
Show with Stephen Colbert,” Colbert asked his inter-viewee, beloved actress and LGBTQ+ activist Ellen Page, “What do you say to people who feel that their religious rights go ahead of (gay people’s) marriage rights?”
Colbert’s question raises a profound concern we must 
confront as a nation: How do we reconcile social progress with seemingly contradictory religious convictions?
The answer lies in our admittance of two key points: the 
U.S. holds no official religion, and Christianity is fallible.
Radical Christian figures defer to the inaccurately para-
phrased Thomas Jefferson quote recited earlier. Mean-while, in one of his personal letters, Jefferson strongly ar-gued “religion is a matter which lies solely between Man 
& his God,” and cited the First Amendment, saying the 
government should “make no law respecting an establish-ment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
Irrespective of the religious undertones of early colo-
nial American history and religious rhetoric of modern U.S. politicians, our Constitution, as stated in the First Amend-ment, first and foremost holds the law above religious con-victions.Second, we need to let go of our idealized at-
tachment to a pure Christian faith. All religions are responsible for both immense good and evil.
As Ellen Page responded in Colbert’s inter-
view, “Religious liberty and religious freedom is 
so, so important. It’s so, so crucial. And what’s 
unfortunate, throughout history, [is] religious liberty has been used to justify discrimination based on gender, based on race and now it’s the LGBT community.”
Back in the 19th and 20th centuries, when 
states defended their anti-interracial marriage 
laws, they often referred to their strict abidance of the “natural law,” or God’s law. Denying people of their civil 
liberties based on religious conviction now in 2015 is no 
different or any more acceptable.
Moreover, the religiously inspired hate of these Chris-
tians contradicts the core tenets of Christianity itself: love, respect and hope. Christians like Kim Davis and Frank-lin Graham are so quick to quote the Bible’s definition of marriage between a man and a woman, but they seem to forget how Jesus taught his followers “You shall not hate your fellow countryman… you shall love your neighbor as 
yourself.”
All this to say, Christianity is not infallible: There is a 
sea of inconsistency and malpractice within the text of the 
Bible and its messages.
But as we embrace equal rights, not only do we bridge 
the gap between our societal practices and the core tenets of love in the Christian faith, but also we further expose the danger of permitting ignorance and discrimination with the excuse: “It’s in the Bible.”
And so, to those Christians who feel discomfort in rec-
onciling religious teachings with a changing society — an understandable discomfort, for we all naturally fear big change — I say embracing gay marriage and the LGBTQ+ movement is an opportunity to become better Christians.
As Jesus himself taught: Love thy neighbor.David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.When our generation signed up for Facebook many 
moons ago, it was hard to conceive of a social life past our K-12 upbringings. Surely every kid who 
came to our bar and bat mitzvahs would still be 
our dawgs, right? Those dudes you took selfies 
with in the Apple Store for your MySpace profile picture? Best friends for life. That girl you met at the food court 
that one time after you and your boys stocked up on Panda 
Express? If only you had gone to the same school and seen more of each other, there really could have been something special there!
Our Facebook friend list reads like the detritus of every 
social interaction we’ve had over the last seven-odd years (that is assuming like most of us, you signed up circa 2008). Every drunken add, every cute girl or guy at “that” party, every person you promised you’d someday hang out with —  
they’re all there, living their lives and constantly reminding 
you of casual interactions and days of social bliss long-since passed. If we like them — or at the least find their antics as well as trials and tribulations amusing — we keep ‘em around, invested in their personal narrative in this grand 
thing we call life. If they’re the type that shares Minion 
memes or whose sense of humor is guided by low resolu-tion image macros, we cast them out, hopefully to never be thought of again.
But how do we navigate the social media posts of those 
who were once important? We all have friends we fell out with, people who broke our hearts or people who were once close but turned out to be bigoted jerks. In an age where friendships exist in perpetuity on the Internet, what IS the 
etiquette for navigating defunct friendships on social media?
As far as Facebook goes, the two main options are unfol-
lowing and deleting. Deleting, the most permanent of dec-
larations, casts that person into obscurity, out of mind and 
out of sight. In contrast, unfollowing allows that person to 
stick around, only without reminding you they exist on a daily basis in your feed.
It is the opinion of this office that deleting, as reluctant 
as one might be to do, is the best option. Loss — although 
that may be too strong a word for this scenario — is an un-
avoidable and consistently reliable part of human existence. Our forebears dealt with it, and our generation seems to stave it off at all costs. 
It’s part of the reason culture of the last 60 years is hap-
pening all at once (an editorial for another time), and it’s most certainly why we torture ourselves by not possessing the fortitude to unfriend. Imagine your dad lurking his high school sweetheart on Facebook: It’s gross and inappropri-
ate, right? Now understand that in keeping those people 
around, that’s the future you’re creating for yourself 20 years down the line.
Shape up, empty your emotional baggage and go on a 
Facebook cleaning spree.Clinging to the past 
is dangerous, 
self-defeating
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David 
Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
It is a dance we 
Americans have fa-miliarized ourselves 
with and have be-
come pretty good 
at since the Columbine High School massacre: 
One or more distraught 
gunmen and several or more victims. A school or theater in sanguinary peril. A storm of grief that ﬂ  oods the com-
munity and ends up brieﬂ  y affect-
ing the whole nation. Trivial de-bates on whether to mention the killer’s name or pretend he is (be-
cause, yes, it is always a he) Lord 
Voldemort. The urge to have the memory of the victims take pre-cedence over the memory of the perpetrators. The manning of the 
battle stations as pro-gun proletar-
ians exchange ﬁ  re with those bur-ghers who demand more regula-tion. A speech from the governor, 
and if the stars are aligned prop-
erly, a head-nodding indie-pop hit about the massacre. In the end, no change in policy occurs, and the timer is reset to mark the seconds 
from the last blasting till the next 
one.
If I’ve missed a step, it’s be-
cause this part of American cul-
ture has eluded me for quite some 
time. I’m ﬁ  nally getting properly tuned into American culture 3.0. I’ve ﬁ  gured out ironic tattoos and the craft-beer craze. The regres-
sive political correctness of col-
lege towns took me a while, but I came along eventually. Fast food and cool cars were the genesis of 
my American-culturing ever since 
I had a badass set of Hot Wheels and my mother was too tired from work to cook. But gun culture (and the carnage that comes with 
it) is a hard one to understand and 
even harder to stomach.
Maybe because I never grew up 
shooting or because I didn’t have 
the Second Amendment framed 
and hung up next to Christ on the cross, but I’ve never really gravi-tated toward purporting this fac-tion of American bois-terousness. One thing is for sure: It would be 
impossible for me to 
assimilate in doing so now. Gun culture may be American, but it’s 
still foul.
With a myriad of 
other matters concern-
ing our rights as Americans (e.g. 
voting or keeping money from 
politics), the Second Amendment 
has still found itself as the poster child for patriots who know noth-ing about the Constitution but 
“value their rights” and rugged 
individualism. Rugged individu-alists with Facebook and Twit-ter accounts espouse the dangers of gun control, and every thrice 
in a while compare the want for 
background checks to steps the Third Reich took in disarming its citizens. What I’m trying to say 
(albeit poorly) is most gun owners 
are imbeciles. The irrelevancy of the Second Amendment in modern American life and how the privi-lege of a well-regulated militia has 
become confused with the right to 
bring an AR-15 into Arby’s is my source. The notion of a gun own-er standing valiantly against the 
federal despots who want to dis-
arm you, even if it means blood-shed, and think you might have a chance is hilarious. Remember Waco? Wake up, kid. While you’re 
worried about your “right” to bear 
arms, your real rights are being nulliﬁ  ed by actions like the ones taken by the Citizens United orga-
nization or a renewal of the USA 
Patriot Act.
But let’s not think about it. 
Let’s not politicize this. In the meantime, we’ll just stomach the 
actions of this last gunman and 
wait for our turn.
This is a distinct part of Ameri-
can culture, and it is a very stupid 
and thoughtless one.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe jour-
nalism junior. His column appears 
on Tuesdays.Latest shooting the latest 
in a long American tradition Column
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org“Stressed” is a key word in the 
college student vocabulary. You hear it in class, from your friends, walking through campus and essentially 
anywhere you’re within earshot of 18- to 25-year-olds. It’s typically around this point in the semester that every area of our lives is moving at maximum speed, and with the ﬁ  rst round of midterms rapidly approaching, it seems as though stress is all anyone talks about — myself included.
I’ve found through my time here at UF that stress 
manifests itself in a variety of ways in students. There 
are those who vent about their source of stress for 
hours on end but never want to do anything to address it (a habit I’m undeniably guilty of). There’s the type that falls off the face of the Earth until the stress sub-sides. Or perhaps you’re able to completely deny the existence of stress even as your life seemingly falls to shambles. Yet perhaps the noblest of these variations is the type that sublimates their stress into productivity.
As a fun interjectory vignette, I once drank an 
espresso at 9 p.m. for no apparent reason, resulting in my highly over-caffeinated mind keeping me up into the wee hours of the night staring at my school cal-endar and agonizing over all the things I had to do in the next few weeks. It wasn’t until I woke up the next morning with a clear head that I came to the conclu-sion that, in most cases, stress is useless. I had weeks to prepare for the exams and term papers supposedly looming over my head, and tormenting myself over it 
wasn’t going to help one bit.
A little bit of stress can be healthy, but it’s once you pass the point of no return that it be-
comes debilitating. When time spent worry-ing surpasses time spent working, you know you have a problem. It’s the ruminating — not the exam or paper — that can do the 
most damage.
As far as dealing with stress is concerned, 
everyone has their thing. Mine involves cov-
ering my room with Post-it notes, detailing what I need to do and when I need to do it. It’s a tad neurotic, but it works. Whether it’s going for a run, meditating or aggressively 
making lists, any method to combat creeping anxiety will do. It’s letting the anxieties build up on top of each 
other that’ll drive you off the deep end.
It’s situations where it seems as though your life has 
become the deﬁ  nition of Murphy’s Law, “Anything that 
can go wrong, will go wrong,” that can make you do some crazy things or just shut down altogether. When my laptop decided to spontaneously melt its hard drive three hours before my 20-page term paper was due last semester, I didn’t think I would make it through. But I did. I learned two things that day: Dropbox is an in-
dispensable resource, and life goes on. It’s easy to get 
tunnel vision and think there’s no way your life could get worse. Honestly, it could and it probably will. But guess what? You’ll make it through that too.
So go take a walk, watch a cute puppy video or pull 
a Tom Haverford and “treat yo self.” As long as you re-member one deadline will not be the end of the world, you’re golden. Besides, we’re all in this together as one big, stressed out UF family.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her col-
umn appears on Tuesdays. Mid-terms bring about stressful times Column
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
A UF STUDENT WAS ARRESTED.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested two men over 
two days for reported involvement in motorcy-
cle-related crimes.
About 10:55 p.m. Saturday, Michael G. 
Wilson, 19, ran his motorcycle into an officer 
who was directing traffic at the intersection 
between Museum Road and Gale Lemerand Drive, according to a police report.
Wilson is a UF engineering freshman, UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando said.
An officer later found the motorcycle at 
Hume Commons — listed as Wilson’s resi-dence in the police report — before Wilson reportedly jumped on and drove away.
Wilson temporarily escaped on Woodlawn Drive by speeding through heavy traffic, ac-cording to the report.
Police arrested Wilson on charges of aggra-
vated battery and failure to obey police orders, 
along with two charges of resisting an officer.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County 
Jail, where he was released Sunday afternoon 
on his own recognizance.
As of press time, Wilson could not be 
reached for comment.
About 3 a.m. the next day, Scott W. Bro-
gan, 21, of Ocala, drove more than 100 mph on West University Avenue, where the speed limit 
is 35 mph, according to a police report. With 
a passenger on board, Brogan evaded two of-ficers before crashing at 17000 W. Newberry Ave.
Police arrested Brogan on a charge of at-
tempting to elude a police officer and took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $30,000 bond. Motorcycle crimes lead to arrests
Brogan
Wilson
CAMPUS
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Every week, Lindsey Barter 
would wait for food.
It comes in a crate stuffed with 
spinach, tomatoes and pumpkin muffins with jam.
Sometimes, the 21-year-old 
said, the contents would be a sur-prise.
“I got to experiment with kale 
before it was cool,” the UF interna-tional studies senior said.
Barter’s crate was part of the 
Gator Community Supported Ag-riculture program, hosted by UF’s 
Office of Sustainability. Started in 
Fall 2010, the program partners with local farms to bring produce to members of the UF community. Students pay up-front for crates of produce and pick up their share weekly from UF’s Agronomy De-partment near Southwest Recre-ational Center.
This year, the program will part-
ner with three local farms — Haw-thorne’s Frog Song Organics Farm, Alachua’s Swallowtail Farm and Gainesville’s Siembra Farm. Par-ticipants can choose which farm their crate comes from each week, with prices ranging from about $26 to about $30.
Frog Song Organics kicked off 
deliveries Oct. 1. The other farms will start deliveries later in the month, and the program will con-tinue until the end of winter.
To Allison Vitt, the UF Office of 
Sustainability outreach and com-munications coordinator, the pro-gram is a great way for students to know where their food is coming from.
“It’s not just this anonymous 
walk into a grocery store,” she said.“You know the farm that it is coming from.”
Amy Van Scoik, co-owner of 
Frog Song Organics, said her crates are typically packed with lettuce, turnips, sweet potatoes, carrots and other vegetables in the fall.
“I love exposing people to new 
crops,” she said, adding that the most exciting things she’s ever sold were turmeric and ginger.
Van Scoik said about 20 to 25 
UF members are currently enrolled in the program. Although the first crates were already delivered, about 75 spots are still available.
Noah Shitama, the founder of 
Swallowtail, said the farm has an assortment of greens available this fall, such as bok choy, kale, col-lard greens and herbs like dill and oregano.
Siembra Farm, which joined 
the program last year, will make its first delivery Oct. 21. Co-owner 
Cody Galligan said the farm typi-
cally provides sweet potatoes, egg-plant, peppers, yucca, arugula and other vegetables.
For Shitama, participating in the 
program is a way for him to fulfill his farm’s mission of providing better food for his family and com-munity.
“I love working with living 
things and watching things grow,” Shitama said. “The most gratifying thing is bringing food to people.”Agriculture program 
provides local produce
By Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF engineering students will 
show off their creative side.
On Thursday, the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum of Art will host a 
Museum Nights event highlight-ing engineering and its relation-ship to art, said Tami Wroath, the 
museum’s director of marketing 
and public relations. This is the fifth year the museum will host an event that highlights engineering.
“We’re showing the community 
and campus that art is useful in any field,” she said.The museum expects more than 
800 people to attend “Art In En-
gineering,” which will feature art 
pieces and performances by UF en-gineering students and faculty. The event will take place from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., and admission is free.
More than 35 art pieces will be  
featured at the event, Wroath said. There will also be about 20 perfor-mances ranging from instrumental 
to vocal to dance.
UF nutritional sciences junior 
Michael Ngo said he is attending 
the event to watch his friend per-form a dance that mixes choreog-
raphy with heavy objects being 
thrown in the air.  
“I’m excited to learn more about 
what engineering is about and how 
it relates to the arts,” the 21-year-
old said.
UF computer engineering fresh-
man Kassandra Philogene said she is looking forward to the event, 
which is unlike anything she’s ever 
been to.
“I like engineering and I like 
art,” the 18-year-old said. “I hope 
it’s gonna be a good time.” Engineering students show creativity
Will showcase at the Harn
“W e’re showing the 
community and campus that 
art is useful in any field.”
T ami Wroath
Harn director of marketing and 
public relations
Gainesville Throwbacks
Oct. 8, 2003
Bernie Machen is selected as UF’s 
11th president. The former president 
at the University of Utah, then-59-year-
old Machen was chosen over Louisi-ana State University System President William Jenkins and University of Il-
linois Urbana-Champaign Chancellor 
Richard Herman. His nomination was approved two days later, and he then signed a five-year contract  worth up to $450,000 per year — about $180,000 
more than his $271,000 salary at the 
University of Utah.
Oct. 4, 1988
A man robbed a Steak ‘n Shake, 
1610 SW 13th St., and shot three of 
the workers in the head on Tuesday morning. Isaiah Griffin, 28, died at the scene while Todd Bidwell, 17, died 12 
hours later at UF Health Shands Hos-
pital. Deanna Leudeman, 33, was in critical condition. The workers were found in the cooler. Gainesville Police released the name of the suspect as Darren Ivis Sheppard. Sheppard was arrested Monday Oct. 7, 1988. 
Oct. 10, 1975Student announcers at WRUF-FM 
made the switch from turntables to 
tapes. With the new tape service, all 
music is pre-selected and runs uninter-rupted until the announcer stops the tape to run a commercial, station iden-tification, public service announce-
ments or news of the hour. While the 
turntables are still being used for clas-sical and jazz programs, some student announcers were not satisfied with 
the switch. “Perhaps the tape service 
is a victim of people not accepting change,” third year journalism major Gwend Stripling said.
- Jordan McPherson 
and Ariana Figueroa
Alligator file photo
Gainesville activist Jesse Schmidt stands before a crowd of about 120 people as 
Occupy Gainesville rallies on the steps of City Hall on Oct. 5, 2011.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
UNDER THE SKY
ABOVE:
Austin Riddaugh, a 20-year-old 
UF applied physiology and kinesi-ology junior, studies on the south side of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Monday afternoon. Riddaugh said he was enjoying the cool weather and peacefulness of the stadium. “It’s surprisingly quiet during the week, ” he said.
MIDDLE LEFT:
An alligator visits Burt Silver-stein, a 70-year-old cardiologist, interrupting his reading time at Lake Alice on Monday. He said the alligators are usually calm, but he “keeps an eye on them. ” Silverstein chooses the lake to es-cape into casual reading because it’s beautiful and quiet.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Charla Markesteyn, a 27-year-old UF agricultural operations management junior, enjoys the weather while working on agri-cultural construction homework at the Thomas Center on Mon-day. As she learned about wiring and plumbing, Markesteyn also took time to enjoy the weather. “It’s a beautiful day outside, ” she said.
Patrick Hunt, a 21-year-old UF horticultural science senior, measures out a plot of land at UF’s Student Agricultural Gardens on Monday for a cover crop of fava beans. The gar-den intern said cover crops help keep the soil from eroding while they are not using the land. The cool October after-noon set the scene for Hunt to plant the fava bean seeds with the Gator Gardening Club.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
● ● HOUSE FOR RENT ● ●2927 SW 1st Ave. Across from UF Golf Course   4-5BR/3BA, W/D,DW, cent AC/heat Only $1,775/mo No application fee, all pets ok. 352-258-0025       10-7-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
 
 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
SEP 4 - NEW MEXICO STATE
SEP 11 - EAST CAROLINA
SEP 25 - TENNESSEE
OCT 2 - OLE MISS
OCT 30 - GEORGIA (JAX)
NOV 6 - VANDERBILT (HOMECOMING)
NOV 20 - FLA ATLANTIC
NOV 24 - FSU
DEC 4 - SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
CONTACT YOUR
SALES REP TODAY
352-376-4482RUN 5 OF 9 DATES AND RECEIVE 15% OFF  
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDED
Up to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Attractive & Fit Female Graduates Wanted
for South FL based modeling assignments.
You must be a college graduate, well
spoken, and mature. A good personality is
also required. PT or FT opportunity. You
must be living in or ready to move to South
FL. We can help you plan for your future:
business, health insurance, and retire-
ment guidance is part of our package. Earn
$4,000-$12,000 per month depending on
your motivation and availability. Email your
resume and physical stats to Taylor:
Ms.MiamiModels@gmail.com
10-6-15-5-14
CITT Web Services captioning has an OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Live & work in Atlanta, rent free!FT Nanny & Personal Assistant needed for Gator grad couple w/ 2 young boys. Good salary + free rent. Email geoff@352inc.com to apply.   10-7-15-5-14
2 volunteers needed to help coach girl's la-crosse team at local high school. Must have min 4 years playing experience. Call Lynn at 352-214-3840 for more info.    10-6-15-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY 
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Amanda Butler and 
Florida's women's basketball team opened practice on Sunday, and the team is instituting a ﬁ  ghter's mentality. Read the story on pg. 14Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida named FWAA National T eam of the Week
The Florida football team was named the Football Writers Association of 
America National T eam of the Week, the association announced Monday. The Gators have been honored ﬁ  ve times with the award, with the last coming last season after their 38-20 win over Georgia on Nov. 1. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF safety Marcus Maye (20) goes in for a tackle during Florida's 38-10 win against Ole Miss on 
Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
COACH MCELWAIN 
WANTS THE TEAM TO 
REMAIN FOCUSED ON 
THE TASK AT HAND. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Restore the order.
It might seem like three simple 
words, but those words have be-
come the calling card for coach 
Jim McElwain and the Gators. 
The program adopted the slo-
gan, which McElwain has used 
as motivation to get Florida back to the heights the team is used to 
seeing.  
“We were right up there at the 
top of the order,” McElwain said. 
“Yet, for some reason, the or-
der has been skewed. It’s because other teams are getting really good now.”
The last time Florida was this 
relevant in the college football landscape, the team was coming off an 11-2 season and got off to a 3-1 start in the 2013 season. 
But that season ended in disas-
ter as the Gators went 4-8.
UF’s football brand took a hit 
the last two seasons and the state of the team was in limbo before McElwain was brought in. 
Florida’s ﬁ  rst-year coach has 
stressed the importance of build-
ing it back up and the legacy that 
the players on the team carry is larger than the name on the back of the jersey.  
And through ﬁ  ve games, McEl-
wain has helped build the brand back up, evidenced by UF’s No. 11 ranking in the country, and the expectations for the program are 
high once again.
Rebuilding the brand is part 
of the mantra McElwain brought Florida paying no mind to hypeAIR JORDAN
Early on in life, 
Jim McElwain owned a 1972 
Ford Pinto.
It wasn’t 
anything special, a 
sweet-pea green se-
dan with an eight-
track tape player that skipped from time to time.
“At that time, 
none of us knew they blew up,” McElwain joked at his weekly Monday press conference. 
“What did that say about my 
dad that he would take care of me and pay $375 for this thing? But it served its purpose.”
Just like the Pinto that 
helped the young coach travel 
around his hometown of Mis-
soula, Montana, McElwain is hoping the Gators continue to serve their purpose and avoid 
the potential explosion that 
could come at any minute.
With Florida back in the na-
tional spotlight following a 38-10 upset win over then-No. 3 
Ole Miss on Saturday, UF’s ﬁ  rst-
year coach needs to make sure the Gators remain grounded as they continue the brutal sched-
ule they still have to play.
 “People (are) rubbing their 
bellies and making them feel 
good,” McElwain said. 
“Yeah, they should get their 
bellies rubbed. I mean, they’ve done a good job. And yet how do you handle it?”
One win does not 
deﬁ  ne a season, and 
the Gators need to 
take note of that.
Just like the one-
hit wonders of the 
music world, the 
hype around a big win ﬁ  zzles quickly if you don’t follow it up.
McElwain decided to go back 
to the ‘60s to make his point, citing The Cyrkle’s 1966 hit “Red Rubber Ball.”
The song reached as high as 
No. 2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart in 1966  — the same year The Beatles released their album “Revolver.”
While McElwain had a slew 
of songs to choose from to make his point, the chorus of the catchy, upbeat 2-minute, 
15-second “Red Rubber Ball” 
describes everything he needed to say. 
“Oh, I think it’s gonna be all 
right/Yeah, the worst is over 
now/The mornin’ sun is shinin’ 
like a red rubber ball.”
Sounds pretty close to the 
situation UF sits in.
After the ﬁ  nal two years of 
the Will Muschamp era — a 24-game stand where Florida went a combined 11-13 and 6-6 at home — McElwain has begun to Gators need to back up 
Ole Miss game to avoid 
becoming one-hit wonders
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Mary Wise has had a track record of dom-
inating the Southeastern Conference.
In her 25 years as head coach of the Flor-
ida volleyball team, she had never lost three 
straight SEC matches.
That is, until the No. 17 Gators suffered 
another crushing ﬁ  ve-set loss to Arkansas Sunday, plummeting Florida (9-4, 1-3 SEC) down the conference standings.
Wise, who led UF to nine straight unde-
feated SEC titles from 1995-2003, only lost two SEC matches in all of the 1990s.
Now she’s lost three in the span of eight 
days.
Part of the reason for the losing streak is 
the strength of the SEC now, Wise said.
“There used to be a day where you could 
win in the league without bringing your A-game,” Wise said. “Those days are long gone.”
Florida is now 0-3 in ﬁ  ve-set matches af-
ter losses to Arkansas and Missouri. 
Despite that record, Wise said she is 
proud of the way her team has played.
“To be in two ﬁ  ve-setters speaks really 
well to the grit of our team,” she said. “I know we’re judged by the ﬁ  nal score 
and that’s athletics, but what’s going into it 
is a whole lot of heart.”
The bottom line remains that the Gators 
have had trouble closing out games recently.
On Wednesday, Florida led Missouri 2-0 
before dropping three straight sets.
Yet on Sunday, even when the Gators 
played statistically better than their oppo-
nent, they couldn’t leave Fayetteville with a win.
UF hit .252 with 65 kills and 12 blocks, 
while Arkansas hit just .144 with 54 kills and UF volleyball remaining calm, collected despite adversity SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Gators have lost three straight
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
“I know we’re judged by the inal score 
and that’s athletics, but what’s going 
into it is a whole lot of heart.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coach
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
 
The Florida soccer team is focused on 
playing all in and playing hard every min-
ute of the match.
On Friday night, the No. 12 Gators (8-3-
1, 2-2-1 Southeastern Conference) tied the 
Kentucky Wildcats in a 1-1 draw leading 
to the first SEC tie-result of the season for 
both teams.
Freshman goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese 
got the start in goal for the Gators and played all 110 minutes of the match. 
Marckese made four saves and let up 
one goal in the tie.
In the five games she has played, the St. 
Petersburg native has made 13 saves and 
given up five goals.
Marckese has been formidable in goal, 
as she has a record of 4-0-1 with one shut-
out on the season.
The freshman has been in a fluctuating 
role as coach Becky Burleigh experiments with both Marckese and redshirt junior Val Tysinger in the starting lineup. 
The freshman keeper made zero ap-
pearances in the team’s first four games, but since being subbed in during UF’s 3-2 overtime win against Oklahoma State on Sept. 4, Marckese has started in four of the team’s last seven games, having gone 3-0-1 
in those starts. Burleigh said Monday that she was sat-
isfied with the team’s defensive perfor-
mance in Friday night’s draw against Ken-tucky  (9-2-2, 3-1-1 SEC) and thinks the 
team took a lot from the overtime match.
“I think as a whole, our team played re-
ally well on Friday night,” Burleigh said. 
“From the front to the back, the defen-
sive effort, and that obviously includes Kaylan, was really good and I think that as long as we continue to build on that and 
she continues to build on her experience, that’s going in the right direction.”
Burleigh won’t name a starting goal-
keeper until Friday when the team takes on 
Tennessee but the last three weeks when 
the Gators have played multiple games Burleigh has split the starts between the two goalkeepers.
With only the top 10 SEC teams mak-
ing the SEC Tournament in Orange Beach, Alabama, Nov. 2-8, getting either a win or a draw in the Gators’ remaining six confer-ence matches is going to be vital in secur-
ing a postseason spot for Florida.
Statistically, Marckese is the best option 
for the Gators in order to achieve that goal. 
Marckese boasts a better save percent-
age and winning percentage than Tysinger.
Down the stretch, the Gators will play 
three more home matches and three match-
es on the road ending with a road match against the last place Georgia Bulldogs in 
Athens, Georgia.  
Burleigh said Monday that as long as 
the team reaches its full potential by the 
time November and December roll around, 
everything else will fall into place.  
“For us, we are looking to progress,” 
Burleigh said.
 “I think each week as we get better at 
certain things those are things that we add to our repertoire as a team. Those things 
(making the postseason) take care of them-selves.”14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF goalkeeper Val Tysinger throws the ball in play during Florida’s 3-2 win against 
Florida State on Aug. 30 at James G. Pressly Stadium.  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Ronni Williams dribbles the ball during Florida’s 77-42 loss to South Carolina on Jan. 19 at the O’Connell Center. 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
When most people hear the 
words “brick house,” they are usu-
ally preceded by the words “she’s 
a” in reference to the 1977 Com-
modores classic “Brick House”, but for the UF women’s basketball team, the words have taken on a 
whole new meaning.
Instituted by coach Amanda 
Butler at the beginning of her UF 
coaching tenure, the “Brickhouse Award” is given to one player af-
ter each practice and game. 
“There are certain things that 
we’re measuring, that we’re track-
ing every single practice because 
we want them to be the bricks, 
the foundation of the way that we play and the way that we com-pete,” she said. 
The award is based on values 
like talk, hustle, rebounds and la-yups, among others, that Butler feels should build the foundation of a good basketball team. 
In a metaphorical sense, the 
bricks add up to form a powerful team unit.
At Sunday’s first official prac-
tice of the season, junior forward 
Ronni Williams took home the 
award in the main practice and sophomore guard Dyandria Ander-son took it in the second, smaller practice. 
“It was great competition,” 
Butler said, adding that “it was a big deal for Ronni to win it and it was a big deal for (Dyandria) to 
win it in the second practice.”
Butler herself set the tone for 
the intensity and importance of the 
first practice by showing up wear-ing a pair of glistening chrome-sil-
ver basketball shorts, the likes of 
which would have fit in perfectly in future Bikini Bottom. 
“Sunday, goin’ to church, you 
put on a dress. If it was your birth-day, then you put on something new or something special. First day of school, you gotta wear something cool. 
And yesterday was the first day 
of practice, so I had to come with something a little special to try and set the tone,” Butler said.
Based on her opinion of how 
the first practice went, Butler would probably say that setting the tone with her silver pants worked.
“I loved how we competed,” 
she said. “I think there was a great understanding of how good we can be as a unit if we bring the 
level of competition against one 
another in practice that we need. That’s just going to elevate the level of the whole group.”
The team specifically focused 
on the importance of touch in their first practice, meaning that they worked on interacting with each other. 
This included everything from 
on-court communication to high-fives and chest bumps, all with team energy in mind.
“I think we did an outstanding 
job yesterday with the way that we just energized each other with connection,” Butler said. 
The focus of practice starting 
on Wednesday is going to be de-fense as UF tries to find its defen-sive identity. 
That being said, the team ap-
pears to be ahead of last year’s 
squad when it comes to finding an 
identity in general. 
“I think that we have a much 
more firm identity, and that’s gon-
na continue to evolve and grow,” 
Butler said. 
When it comes to progression 
on the court, Butler said that early signs are encouraging. However, 
she acknowledged that it’s go-
ing to be a while until everything comes together for this team.
“It’s also very early,” she said.
“I know a lot of things are go-
ing to change and grow in the 
right direction.”Gators hold first practice of season 
Florida intends to keep using two goalkeeper rotation
Freshman continues to impress10.5 blocks.
“If it had been a boxing match, 
we would’ve won by decision,” 
Wise said. “Arkansas won the big points when it mattered.”
Wise knows it’s up to her to 
play the players who’ll make the clutch plays.
“We gotta find a combination 
of players who can, for the serv-ing-passing game, make plays at crunch time,” she said, “not just in the beginning of sets.”
Finding that combination will 
be tougher now too, because se-nior setter Mackenzie Dagostino is “highly doubtful” to play this weekend with a concussion, ac-cording to Wise.
Dagostino’s concussion is the 
most recent of reasons to hinder Florida’s lineup this season.
Sophomore outside hitter Carli 
Snyder suffered an ankle injury in early September and senior out-side hitter Ziva Recek missed three games while playing for Slovenia’s national team in Europe.
“Once again just when we got 
everyone back, we’re faced with another challenge,” Wise said. 
“But our main goal is still in 
front of us. Our main goal has al-ways been, has not changed, is to play our best volleyball in Decem-ber.”
The losing streak also hasn’t had 
too much of an impact on Wise, 
who started Monday’s press con-
ference with a simple phrase: “The good news is the sun did come up.”TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks to the stadium before Florida's 38-10 win against Ole Miss on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.  The 
Gators are ranked in the AP T op 25 for the first time since October 2013. 
Aaron Albright  / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise calls out to Mackenzie Dagostino during Florida's 3-1 loss to Kentucky on Sept. 27 in the O'Connell Center. 
right the ship.
The Gators are now 5-0 in 
McElwain’s first five games as 
a UF coach, a feat last accom-
plished by Steve Spurrier back in 1990. 
They’re ranked No. 11 in the 
country, on the cusp of being a top-10 team for the first time since the start of the 2013 season.
They’re clicking in all phases 
of the game, the offense, defense and special teams all putting in the effort to close out a game.
“We know we have to remem-
ber how we were a couple years ago and just keep fighting and just keep practicing hard,” safety Marcus Maye said. 
“Just the whole message is 
don’t get complacent and don’t 
stop working.”
But that tune has been sung 
before. 
And unless Florida can contin-
ue its success for the next seven 
weeks and climb the charts, this season’s success risks being con-sidered a one-hit wonder, none different than the songs that 
came blaring from McElwain’s 
eight-track tape player in his Ford Pinto.
“I don’t think we are,” McEl-
wain said, “but we’ll find out this week.”COLUMN,  from pg13VOLLEYBALL,  from pg13Senior 's injury is latest blow to Gators
with him and he’s made it a point to make the team buy into it so he could change the culture 
surrounding the program.  
“When he first came in, that 
was one of his first big things. 
We have to get back to where 
we used to be,” safety Marcus 
Maye said. 
“He doesn’t let us take a step 
off anything. Just doing all the little small things he wants us 
to do.”
With the team getting off to 
a 5-0 start, the chatter outside 
the program is picking up once 
again.  
The challenge for the team is 
to ignore it and continue to do 
the same things it has done for the first five weeks of the sea-
son.
After not being relevant for 
more than two years, Maye said 
it’s a breath of fresh air for the 
Gators getting back into the 
rankings. 
However, he said the coach-
ing staff has warned the team not to get caught up where it's 
at and to ignore what is being said outside of the locker room.
“We just go out each day at 
practice. Coach says don’t let 
the outside stuff distract us with what we have going on,” Maye said. 
“Just going out and practic-
ing every day and getting back to the drawing board, taking each day at a time.”
Now, as Florida enters this 
week’s practice preparing to face the Missouri Tigers on Sat-urday in Columbia, McElwain said the game will be the big-
gest test the Gators have faced 
all season.
Not only because the Tigers 
are the next opponent on the schedule, but he wants to see 
how his team will respond after 
being praised for its upset win against then-No. 3 Ole Miss.
“(I’m) excited for where 
we’re at,” McElwain said. 
“At the same time, it’ll be re-
ally interesting to see how we handle the praise from all the people that obviously said they 
weren’t worth a hill of beans 
and now are talking about them. People rubbing their bellies and making them feel good.”FOOTBALL,  from pg 13McElwain doesn't want 
the team's ranking to  
affect Florida's focus16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015
SCOUTING
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
The Jim McElwain era of Florida football is 
off to a 5-0 start, but after playing four of their 
first five games at home, the No. 11 Gators (5-0, 3-0 Southeastern Conference) will now play 
three games away from The Swamp over the 
next four weeks, starting with Missouri (4-1, 1-1 SEC). Here’s what you need to know about the Missouri Tigers:
Offense:
Missouri has yet to pose a threat offensively in the early going of the season. The Tigers are averaging 21.4 points per game and are dead 
last in the SEC in total offense (322.4 yards/
game) and rushing offense (119.4 yards/game). Furthermore, the team will again be without junior quarterback Maty Mauk, who was suspended Sept. 29 for an undisclosed vio-lation of team rules. Freshman Drew Lock will get the start for the second straight week. 
Defense:
While Missouri’s offense is nothing to gloat 
about, its defense continues to keep it in the game. The Tigers are surrendering just 12 points a game this season, the best in the SEC and seventh in the country. Part of the team’s success can be attributed to the development of an inexperienced defensive line, which helped hold South Carolina to just 10 points and a meager 4.7 yards per play. 
Special Teams:
Kicker Andrew Baggett has been reliable for 
Missouri all season, making 7-of-8 field goal at-tempts, and punter Corey Fatony has pinned 11 of his 29 punts inside the opponent’s 20-yard line this season. But the special teams 
play falls off from there. The Tigers are averag-
ing a below-average 16 yards per kickoff return (13th in SEC) and 7.77 yards per punt return (12th in SEC), showing a void created once All-American returner Marcus Murphy left.
Last time out:  Oct. 18, 2014
The Tigers pounced the Gators to the tune 
of a 42-13 victory in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium to hand UF its second-straight homecoming loss. Missouri’s Marcus Murphy paved the 
way, scoring three of the Tigers’ five touch-
downs on a 96-yard kickoff return, 5-yard rush and 82-yard punt return. Missouri also forced Florida to turn the ball over six times — four of which resulted in a touchdown — and sacked UF quarterbacks Treon Harris and Jeff Driskel a combined six times.Previewing Florida football’s matchup against the Tigers 