We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 68 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
Gators rallying around Treon Harris
The sophomore quarterback has 
struggled while coach Jim McElwain implements a pro-style offense, pg. 13
Inﬁ  nity Hall gets its Senate seat
UF Student Senate gives Inﬁ  nity Hall residents their own senator, pg. 4
SG educates about mental health
It’s part of Mental Health Awareness Week, pg. 5Giving Gators: Students donate 
to homeless, hungry
Check out the story and photo story, pg. 8
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
THE FUCHS AWAKENS 
UF President Kent Fuchs surprises the crowd dressed as Darth Vader at Tuesday night’s “Star Wars”-themed UF vs. University of Richmond basketball game. During the ﬁ  rst timeout, he strolled out with others dressed in Stormtrooper masks, removed his helmet and danced.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Brandon Stanton will be speaking to the hu-
mans of Gainesville on Dec. 9.
Stanton, the writer and photographer be-
hind the blog and best-selling book “Humans 
of New York,” will speak to students at 8 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. He will be paid $45,000, wrote Kevin Gerson, Accent chairman, in an email.
Since 2010, Stanton has initiated intimate 
conversations with strangers on the streets of New York. He posts several interviews, accom-panied by portraits, on the HONY Facebook 
page nearly every day. His photos and inter-
views often reveal tales of extreme hardship or happiness.
On Facebook, Stanton’s 
page has 16 million likes. 
On Instagram, the page yields nearly 4 million fol-lowers.
Alex Mazzeo, a UF psy-
chology junior, said he’s 
looking forward to hearing 
the stories behind Stanton’s interviews.
The 20-year-old is impressed by how Stan-
ton earns the trust of complete strangers. If stu-dents look through the HONY page, Mazzeo 
said they’ll ﬁ  nd something that touches them.
“I’ve never seen any project taken like 
this,” he said.
UF biology junior Mar Dominguez has fol-
lowed Stanton’s Facebook page since he was in high school. He said the HONY page is ad-dicting because of how well Stanton mixes his 
photography with his writing.
“I think the pictures he takes are really 
complementary to the stories he tells,” the 
20-year-old said. ‘Humans of New York’ photographer to visit UF
CAMPUS
By Lexie Bajalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students asked Republican 
presidential candidates questions on Tuesday, and they’re hoping to get answers.
In the CNN Campaign Camp-
er, which was parked in front of Pugh Hall, students had their questions ﬁ  lmed and have the 
potential to be aired during future 
GOP debates. They asked the can-didates’ stance on issues of racial diversity, LGBTQ+ rights and economic stability. 
CNN media producer Kellie 
Keesee declined to comment.
UF nursing sophomore Natalia 
Cuervo attended the event. The 
20-year-old said it’s important for 
diverse people to share their po-litical views.
“I’m glad that this gave us an 
opportunity to have our voices heard as university students,” she said.
Watching debates can inﬂ  u-
ence millennials’ opinions about presidential candidates, accord-ing to a recent study published by the College Republican National 
Committee.
“They’re sort of seeing through 
the lens of who’s going to help 
me or who’s going to help people like me,” said UF political science professor Michael Martinez.
Jared Blackburn, 20, a mem-
ber of UF College Republicans, said it’s important for millennials 
to vote.
“We are the future leaders 
of America, so we need to think 
about that when we vote,” the UF political science major said. “We are the ones that are going to have to deal with what happens in this next election when we en-ter the job force.” CNN asks UF students 
their views on issues 
IT’S THE MOST POWERFUL 
SUPERCOMPUTER IN THE STATE.
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gators pushed in earplugs before touring 
UF’s new supercomputer Tuesday afternoon.
As part of UF President Kent Fuchs’ inau-
guration, more than 150 UF faculty, staff and 
other supporters gathered at the East Campus 
building to celebrate the ofﬁ  cial launch of Hi-PerGator 2.0, the state’s most powerful super-
computer.  
“We are now not limited by resources,” 
Fuchs said of the Dell-manufactured machine, which continually whirs loudly as it processes information.He told the crowd the computer will help UF 
researchers inspire change on campus.
The computer cost more than $8 million, 
said Elias Eldayrie, the UF Information Tech-nology vice president and chief information of-ﬁ  cer. The funds came mostly from the UF IT of-ﬁ  ce, the Provost Ofﬁ  ce and Ofﬁ  ce of Research.
“It allows researchers to uncover the next 
discovery in education and society in general,” Eldayrie said.
The machine is available to everyone at the 
university, Fuchs said.
“I’m really impressed by how many people have been using the previous version (of the supercomputer), called HiPerGator 1.0,” Fuchs said. “At most universities, the supercomputers are reserved for very few people.”
The computer allows the 1,500 researchers 
who use it to extract interesting information from big data sets, he said.
This can help them create simulations and 
patterns, Eldayrie said.
“It’s a wonderful time in the university with 
the new president and the resources to advance research and become the preeminent institu-tion that we can be,” he said.UF President Fuchs celebrates launch of super-computer
“It allows researchers to uncover the 
next discovery in education and society 
in general.” 
Elias Eldayrie
UF Information T echnology vice president 
and chief information officerHe will be paid $45,000 to speak
Stanton
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators anniversary cel-
ebration  
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club will host a 10th Anniversary Celebration and Reunion on 
Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 
the Uptown Village at Townsend clubhouse, located at 3780 NW 24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters members and offi-cers throughout the area and past and present Talking Gators club members and officers. RSVP by calling 352-283-3919 so we can 
plan for refreshments. For more 
information about the club, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Talking Gators Holiday Party
The Talking Gators Holiday Party and Gift Exchange will be dur-ing the Tuesday meeting at 5:45 
p.m. Bring a wrapped new or 
gently used gift (about $5) for the exchange table for Table Topics. Meetings are in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, located at 970 Natural Area Drive. For more information about the club, visit http://talkingga-tors.toastmastersclubs.org or its 
Facebook page.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Winter 
Luau-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a Gingerbread Tiki Hut contest, limbo with prizes and live music 
by Cas Haley. 
The event will also feature show-ings of the movie “Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 
Card. Attendees must be current 
students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest each to the event.
Sounds of the Season: An 
American HolidayUF’s College of the Arts and the School of Music are pleased to 
present their annual holiday con-
cert, “Sounds of the Season: An American Holiday,” conducted by Will Kesling. "Sounds of the Season" will feature more than 250 performers. The centerpiece of the concert, “Red Telephone,” is a short musical play created by Phillip Grow that tells the story of 
the origin of the North American 
Aerospace Defense Command Tracks Santa program, which has been following Santa’s progress from the North Pole to children all over the globe since the 1950s. Another highlight of this year’s concert will be the narration of 
Longfellow’s “Christmas Bells” 
by UF President Kent Fuchs.Tickets are free and will be dis-tributed at the door beginning at 5 p.m. Sunday. For more in-formation, contact the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Box Office at 352-392-2787, or visit performingarts.ufl.edu.
FSDC Winter Formal 
On Friday the Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you to its annual Winter Formal dance. The dance will be located at the Unified Training Center at 809 W University Ave. with lessons starting at 8 p.m. and social danc-
ing from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
There will be games, food, drinks and people you can dance with for $5. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find the club on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/
UF PRSSA & FPRA Holiday 
Student SocialJoin the UF chapter of the Public Relations Student Society of America and UF’s Florida Public Relations Association for an eve-ning of networking and connect-ing with local public relations professionals Thursday from 5:30 
p.m. to 7 p.m. at AHA! 
The Innovation CoLab in Weimer Hall. There will be holiday-themed desserts and chances to win prizes. Contact Patricia Krogh at pakrogh@havenhos-pice.org, or call 623-628-9148 for more information.
TANGO CLASS
Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels including first-timers.Classes will take place Wednesday in the common room at Corry Village. The beginner lesson will begin at 8 p.m. followed by an interme-
diate/advanced lesson at 9 p.m. 
Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes necessary. Jazz, ballet, salsa shoes or even just a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit the club at www.facebook.com/groups/uftango/.
Comedy Show
Celebrate the end of the semes-ter with a comedy show. Just Kidding: A Live + Online Sketch Comedy Show will be showing at the Hippodrome on Dec. 11 and Dec. 12 at 11 p.m. The show will feature an hour of live sketches. Tickets are limited, so get yours 
at justkiddingcomedy.comRUB Entertainment Presents 
Merry Mug MakingReitz Union Board Entertainment 
is hosting Merry Mug Making on Thursday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. Students can paint mugs and Christmas ornaments for free. Hot cocoa, cookies and tea will be provided as well.
Home Craft Show
It will feature works of art from local artisans, many quality handmade items, original paint-ings, tatted and beaded jewelry, crocheted critters, paper art and more. Find that special holiday gift. Come out to 2915 NW 55th Blvd. on Dec. 12 from 9 a.m. to 2 
p.m. We’ll be there rain or shine. 
For more information, email craftyqueen12@cox.net.
Highlights from  the Popular 
Culture CollectionPopular Culture Collections cura-tor Jim Liversidge will spotlight some of the highlights from the 
UF Popular Culture Collection, 
including the costume sketches of Tony Award-nominated designer John David Ridge, film ephemera from the silent classics through the wide-screen era of the 1950s, Mexican and Cuban film posters, the photographs of Martin Harris (who worked for “Stars and 
Stripes,” “Life” and “Colliers”) 
and the original Superman pro-totype (1 out of 3 in the world) produced by the original artists. The talk will be held Monday at 2 p.m. in the Judaica Suite of Smathers Library (inside the Grand Reading Room on the sec-ond floor).
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To en-sure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 68
HIGH  82° LOW  60°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
A new Uber-style tutoring 
app wants to change the way 
students study.
Knack, a free app that uses 
GPS technology to find avail-able tutors, launched Tuesday at UF and the University of Cen-
tral Florida. The brainchild of 
Samyr Qureshi, a UF alumnus and the company’s CEO, said the app charges students a flat rate of $20 per hour, with a $5 
minimum.
Students who download the 
app, currently only available 
for iPhones, enter the course in 
which they need tutoring and 
their location. They can then re-quest a tutor in their area, who is required to have earned a B-plus in the course they are tutor-
ing, Qureshi said.
Knack offers tutoring ses-
sions for more than 300 courses 
at UF and UCF. Currently, about 
45 tutors at UF are registered, 
said Dennis Hansen, Knack chief product officer and a 23-year-old UF industrial and systems engi-neering senior.
As opposed to other tutor-
ing services, Qureshi said Knack promotes one-on-one learning, which he said is more valuable than online or group sessions.
“It makes it more conducive,” 
he said. “It makes it more fun.”
During the launch Tuesday, 
Qureshi and other coworkers handed out cookies, T-shirts and 
$10 tutoring coupons. He said 
the Gainesville startup commu-nity provides the perfect breed-ing ground for entrepreneurship.
“Things just kind of blow 
up very quickly here,” Qureshi said.
Its official launch in Florida 
followed the app’s first-place 
finish at a startup competition in 
San Francisco and third place in a local competition earlier this year.
After running the compa-
ny out-of-pocket for several months, Qureshi and his co-founders secured an investor for the company at the start of Fall, which made the Tuesday launch possible. He declined to say how much the app cost to make.
The company is located in 
Bryan Hall, where the War-rington School of Business dean granted them a working space 
and mentorship opportunities. 
Qureshi will work with Hansen; David Stoker, a UF alumnus; and Shawn Doyle, a UCF alumnus. 
He considers them co-founders 
because they helped turned the idea into a business.
Megan Zimmerman, a UF 
applied physiology and kine-
siology sophomore, came to 
the launch event. She said she thinks Knack may be a solution for her stress over her upcoming 
organic chemistry exam.
“I think it’s brilliant,” the 
20-year-old said.   UF, UCF students create tutor app
FOOTLOOSE
Oscar Valladares, left, a 62-year-old UF assistant facilities 
manager, and 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore Kalie Pham swing dance on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. They danced to promote the Florida Swing Dance Club’s Winter Formal on Friday at the Uniﬁ  ed Training Center, which Pham, who has been dancing for ﬁ  ve years, said she plans to attend.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff It’s location-based 
“It makes it more 
conducive. It makes it 
more fun.”
Samyr Qureshi
UF alumnus and the 
company’s CEO4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
CRAFTS AND CANDLES 
Kelly Korman, a 26-year-old UF farm to school extension em-
ployee in the family nutrition program, paints a raincloud on a ceramic menorah on Tuesday. Congregation B’nai Israel ar-ranged the arts-and-crafts night for people to decorate meno-rahs for Hanukkah for $15 each.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Jennifer Louissaint
Alligator Contributing Writer 
With finals approaching, Hispanic-Latino Affairs is 
providing a week of relaxing events.
After an ice cream social with new HLA ambassa-
dors Monday and a presentation on how to reduce stress 
Tuesday, the Stress Free Week will continue with physi-
cal activity, puppies and cookies. The week is designed 
to help students remain calm despite the oncoming stress of finals.
“We get so caught up on things that we forget that 
mental and physical care comes first,” said Jessica Val-dés Garcia, a 20-year-old senior ambassador in HLA’s cultural committee.
The week’s events, all held at La Casita, are mostly 
funded through sponsorships with kind Healthy Snacks, 
Gatorade, the Counseling & Wellness Center, and Gator-
Well, the UF political science sophomore said, adding that the event was designed to bring a more positive culture to campus during finals.
During Tuesday’s presentation, Sara Martin, a health 
promotion specialist at GatorWell, discussed ways to re-
lax and avoid procrastination with HLA ambassadors.
“As a college student, time management is part of 
any goal,” she said.
Alexandra Rodriguez, a 20-year-old HLA ambassa-
dor, said she thought the events were a way for students 
to take care of themselves and not get too focused on finals.
 “It’s little simple things that make you happy and 
not worry about finals,” the UF advertising junior said.Hispanic-Latino Affairs says stress lessBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Students living in Infinity Hall 
will have a voice in UF’s Student Senate next Fall.
The Senate amended the Fall 
2016 Reapportionment bill, which 
decides the number of seats each 
district receives for re-election, to include a senator for the hall in the legislation at Tuesday’s meeting. It passed by unanimous consent.
Since September, senators have 
debated if Infinity Hall should have its own seat or be represented by senators from District A, which in-
cludes Sorority Row and housing 
east of 13th Street in the 32601 ZIP-code area. The dispute stems from Infinity Hall’s physical building loca-tion, which is off campus.
The mailing address, though, 
uses UF’s on-campus ZIP code, 32612. The building is also operated, but not owned, by UF.
Views on how Infinity should be 
represented were split along party lines. Most Impact and Swamp sena-tors supported Infinity being in Dis-trict A, while most Access senators supported a Senate seat, according to SG voting records.
With the addition of Infinity’s 
seat, District B, which is north of UF in ZIP codes 32603, 32605 and 32606, will lose a seat, Sen. Jason Richards (Impact, District A) said.
He said he decided Infinity Hall 
needed its own seat after it created a constitution as a residence-hall area government.
Student Body President Joselin 
Padron-Rasines thanked Senate.
“I believe that Infinity Hall de-
serves representation in the Senate,” she said. Infinity Hall gets its Senate seat
T oday’s event is free yoga at La Casita at 1 p.m.
Events This Week 
T oday at 1 p.m. - Yoga, bring a yoga mat 
Thursday at 3 p.m. - Puppies and cookies 
Friday at 3 p.m. - Outdoor Zumba 
By Gaby Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
This weekend, Kayla Caniff won an 
award for representing the United King-
dom.  
The 18-year-old Santa Fe College lin-
guistics sophomore stood with her partner, Reeya Gupta, in the General Assembly of the Model United Nations conference and 
successfully passed a resolution about 
peacekeeping.
Caniff was one of 19 students from the Santa Fe College Model United Nations club who participated in the 25th annual Southern Regional Model United Nations conference in Atlanta  this past weekend
During its 10th year of participation, the 
club earned five awards. For the first year, some student participants also received academic credit in accordance with a new 
course offered this Fall about the U.N.
The team won three outstanding del-
egate awards and two country delegation 
awards, said Jennifer Forshee, the team’s 
adviser and assistant professor of political science at Santa Fe.
Santa Fe paid for the costs of the confer-
ence, including travel expenses and regis-
tration fees. 
The conference is 
based upon the actual U.N., so there are several committees, said Gupta, the team’s secretary. A 
position paper completed 
prior to the conference and participation in the committee determines 
if performances are granted awards. It is based upon a point system, she said.
Forshee said the students showed dedi-cation as they prepared to compete with about 50 other schools in the competition.
“They take their representation of a 
country very seriously and do a lot of re-
search,” she said.
While Caniff has won awards before for 
her participation in Model U.N. competi-
tions, her most recent award was the cul-mination of 48 hours without sleep.
“I stayed up for two days straight 
writing resolutions in hopes of getting it passed,” she said, adding she felt the con-ference was sometimes very intense.
“It felt great that my hard work was rec-
ognized,” she said. Santa Fe wins five awards at Model UN competition
LOCAL
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Tioga Town Center will be 
decked out in trees and wreaths trimmed in ornaments, ribbons and 
lights this week.
UF Health Shands Children’s 
Hospital will host its second Festival 
of Trees event Thursday through Sat-
urday. Money raised at the event will benefit the Children’s Miracle Net-
work Hospitals, said Sarah Amann, 
the event’s coordinator.
To fundraise, she said the hospi-
tal will hold a silent auction for 10 
trees. This year, they will also auc-
tion three real wreaths, and all pro-
ceeds will go to CMNH.
“There is no other Christmas 
event that is quite like this one that brings the community together,” Amann said. “I just love that this event gives people the opportunity to 
support our tiniest community mem-
bers and help them out this holiday season.”
The three-day event kicks off 
with a VIP Preview Party on Thurs-day, where attendees will get an exclusive opportunity to make the first bids on the trees and wreaths. Cocktail attire is required for the par-ty, which lasts from 7 to 9:30 p.m. 
Tickets cost $40 per person and can 
be purchased at the door or online at giving.UFHealth.org/Trees.The silent auction will last from 
3 to 9 p.m. Friday and 10 a.m. to 9 
p.m. Saturday. Amann said the tree 
showcase is free to the public, and anyone can donate at the event.
UF biology freshman Aria Nawab 
said she can’t wait to see the trees.
“It’s really hard to be so far from 
home during the holiday season, so that will be nice to see,” the 18-year-old said.‘Festival of Trees’ to benefit child hospital patientsFirst time earning academic credit
Caniff
“There is no other Christmas 
event that is quite like this one 
that brings the community 
together.” 
 Sarah Amann
event coordinatorWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
40 YEARS OF FRATERNITY 
The Lambda Theta Alpha Latin Sorority and Lambda Theta Phi Lat-
in Fraternity chant and stroll on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday for their 40-year anniversary. Tiffanie Henriquez (fourth from left), a 20-year-old UF family, youth and community sciences junior, said she wanted it to be a celebration of unity, love and respect. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff 
and Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Student Government wants stu-
dents to know pain can’t always be 
seen.
SG’s Health Affairs Cabinet hand-
ed out 144 shirts, which cost about 
$720, and read “Not All Wounds 
Are Visible,” to students Tuesday on Turlington Plaza. Dozens of students came to learn about mental health stigmas during its ﬁ  rst event, Gators Chomp the Stigma.
Nhu Le, a UF pharmacy fresh-
man, said she decided to go to the event because she’s seen the chal-
lenges mental health issues pose.
“My friends have gone through 
(it),” she said.She said she was shocked to learn 
one in four college students struggle with a mental health disorder. With 
about 50,000 UF students, more than 12,000 could potentially face this.
“It’s surprising how the statistics 
shock you,” the 19-year-old said.
Later Tuesday night in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom, about 40 people listened to students share their struggles with mental health’s 
negative stigma. 
On a screen, two brain types were 
shown: The normal brain resembled 
a laser-light show, but the depressed brain was clouded in black.
Each panelist represented a spe-
ciﬁ  c culture and point of view. De-spite having roots in countries as far apart as Peru and China, the students 
all agreed mental health is something 
people just don’t talk enough about.
“In my culture, especially as, like, a black woman, especially as a queer person, you don’t really talk about 
your mental illnesses a lot,” said Dia-
mond Delancy, a UF women’s stud-ies and public relations senior.
The 20-year-old said it’s hard to 
talk to her family about her psycho-logical problems because she is often perceived as a black superwoman, one who is to always keep her feel-ings hidden.
The most prevalent forms of men-
tal health disorders among students are depression and anxiety, said Jeannie Latimer, a psychotherapist at the UF Counseling & Wellness Cen-ter. On a given day, she sees six to eight students who seek help.
She said a college atmosphere 
tends to trigger these types of mental 
health issues.
“It can be a pretty stressful time,” 
she said. SG educates about mental health
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two men Mon-
day night after police said they had about 2 
grams of cocaine and crack between two sepa-rate incidents.
At about 11:40 p.m. Monday, Archer resi-
dent Johnny Patterson, 23, rode in a car with a bag of cocaine by his side, according to a police report. An ofﬁ  cer pulled the car over for a trafﬁ  c infraction in the 4200 block of SW 20th Ave. and noticed the bag stuffed in a door jamb, according to the report.
The ofﬁ  cer then searched Patterson, who 
admitted to having crack in his shoe. During the search, Patterson kicked off his shoe and 
revealed three crack rocks, bringing the total 
amount to about 1.4 grams, according to the report.Police arrested Patterson on charges for 
possession of cocaine and possession of drug paraphernalia. About ﬁ  ve minutes later, Gainesville resident Corey Davis, 38, visited the Food Max 110 Inc. convenience store, where two weeks ago police warned him not to trespass, according to a police report.
An ofﬁ  cer searched Davis, who then admit-
ted to having cocaine. The ofﬁ  cer found about 0.4 grams of cocaine and a straw in Davis’ jacket pocket, and, according to the report, Da-vis later said, “Snorting cocaine is what I do.”
Police arrested Davis on charges for posses-
sion of cocaine, possession of drug parapher-nalia and trespassing.
The men could not be reached for comment 
as of press time. 
Authorities took both men to the Alachua 
County Jail where they were both released Tuesday afternoon under the condition they report back to the jail daily.Police arrest men for crack, cocaine
Davis
Patterson
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
If you ain’t ﬁ  rst … 
that’s actually OK
Ricky Bobby: I did just like you told me: “If you ain’t 
ﬁ  rst, you’re last!”
Reese Bobby: What the hell are you talking about?Ricky Bobby: What you told me that day at school 
for Career Day! You came in and said, “If you ain’t 
ﬁ  rst, you’re last!”
Reese Bobby: Aw hell Ricky, I was high when I said that! 
Well that doesn’t make any sense at all! You can be second, 
third, fourth... hell, you can even be ﬁ  fth!
“Talladega Nights” explains it best — with the end of 
2015 slowly but surely creeping near, we’ve reached the time of year when critics and the Internet at large trample 
over one another to declare what was the “best” of the year. This annual rush to declare someone or something a “win-
ner” of an artistic medium has always been particularly 
pronounced with regards to music. In the last week alone, several online publications have run some permutation of a 
“Best Songs/Albums/What-have-you of 2015” piece.
Ignoring that there are 29 days left in the calendar year, 
apparently the surprise last-minute release of “Black Mes-siah” by D’Angelo (shameless plug No. 1) last year failed to 
teach critics a vital lesson about rushing to conclusions. In any case, most of these lists don’t hold Father John Misty’s 
February release “I Love You, Honeybear” at No. 1, so 
they’re invalid in our eyes anyway (shameless plug No. 2).
But we digress. Beyond the impossible race for critical 
authority and respectability, we as a culture are all too quick to react or make moves if it means we will be the “ﬁ  rst” at something, even if it’s as trite as releasing an end-of-the-
year list. Hell, we’ll hustle if it means we can consider our-
selves to be, at the least, “among the ﬁ  rst” to do something, such as participating in a collective outpouring of emotions. 
For reference, look no further than the stampede to see who 
can praise *insert hot new Netﬂ  ix show and/or blockbuster ﬁ  lm here* the most, or who can compose the most expres-
sive way of saying how much the new Adele record made 
them cry. In a more somber light, consider the rush to adopt a proﬁ  le picture in France’s colors in light of the recent at-
tacks.
We’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit we’ve been guilty of this, too, 
both in our personal lives and in this very paper. Contrary to what some would believe, we are only human. Even so, 
the rush to be at the vanguard of society’s ever-ﬁ  ckle emo-tions, priorities and passing interests is not only mostly dis-
ingenuous, but it can be dangerous. Try as we may to put 
it behind us, the “you’re either with us, or against us” mob mentality that emerged at the time the Iraq War was gear-
ing up helped create a violent quagmire of our own design.
The fast-paced nature of American society has meant 
sacriﬁ  cing sincere emotion in the name of collective arti-ﬁ  ce. We’ve written before on the pratfalls of behaving in a 
reactionary manner, and the rush to be in on something or “ﬁ  rst” (in quotations because hell, no one is ever really ﬁ  rst 
in the Information Age) isn’t far removed from reacting in 
a hasty fashion. It would do everyone a bit of good to sit down and ponder: “How does this (whether it be a piece of 
knowledge, politics or art) REALLY make me feel?”
We know ﬁ  nals don’t really allow time for self-contem-
plation or introspection, but we’re conﬁ  dent it’ll prove more productive than dashing to tweet about the inevitable 
“surprise” end-of-the-year Drake release in all caps.Column
Don’t dismiss the verb ‘be like’  — praise it 
“And you touch me and I’m like…
ooh ooh” — “Empire” by Shakira.
“GIRLS BE LIKE SELFIEEE”- 
memestache.com.
Though admittedly jocular in 
nature, these phrases show the preeminence of the relatively new English verb ‘be like,’ which is arguably one of the most innovative and efﬁ  cient verbs in our language.
Distinct from the verb ‘be’ and the discourse 
marker ‘like’ (popularly called a “ﬁ  ller”), as in “she was, like, so late,” ‘be like’ functions as a quotative. Quotatives generally report speech, thought or emotional state. In standard language, verbs such as ‘say,’ ‘tell,’ ‘ex-
claim,’ etc. perform the traditional role of quoting and report-
ing speech.
The verb ‘be like’ in its quotative function emerged in 
spoken American English in the second half of the 20th cen-tury and has been on the rise for the past two decades.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology cultural and lin-
guistic anthropologist Graham Jones estimated up to 80 per-cent of American college students employ this quotative in their daily interactions with each other, evidencing its popu-
larity and efﬁ  ciency.
Nonetheless, traditional self-professed grammarians are 
wont to dismiss ‘be like’ as a legitimate linguistic entity, and 
various media outlets stylize and trivialize the verb. Jessica Love, who holds a doctorate in cognitive psychology, said even the New Yorker frequently uses commas to punctuate phrases with ‘be like’ (“He was, like, dude…”), effectively obscuring the quotative’s meaning and usage by confusing it with a discourse marker.
The trend of dismissing or trivializing ‘be like’ is prob-
lematic for several reasons. Firstly, it is not a crime to dis-tinguish between standard and nonstandard forms of a lan-guage. However, deriding the pronunciation and grammar of nonstandard forms of language does nothing to advance our knowledge of language or how it is regularly employed in real-world contexts.
I have met many English teachers who are convinced their duty to humanity is to rid English of ﬁ  llers such as ‘like’ and ‘um,’ although these words function as important discourse markers that occur naturally and organically in authentic human speech and perform important roles. Unsurprisingly, since ‘be 
like’ features the ever-blasphemous ‘like,’ it is of-
ten falsely equated, such as in the New Yorker anecdote above, as a useless ﬁ  ller that can and should be omitted for the sake of English itself.
This is where I’m like … people need to real-
ize ‘be like’ is, in the appraisal of many linguists, 
a “Swiss army knife” of a phrase because it is impressively broad in its communicative scope.
Considering my use of ‘be like’ in the preceding para-
graph, we can posit at least four distinct interpretations, which themselves can intersect to form a rich, highly opin-ionated conveyance. First, the sentence indicates I have sim-ply said “people need to realize…” Another interpretation is I just thought to myself “people need to realize…” Conversely, I might have said something roughly the same as “people need to realize…” but with altogether different words. Last-ly, I might have meant I experienced an emotional state that reﬂ  ected “people need to realize,” or, in the spirit of the el-
lipsis, maybe I just pursed my lips, closed my eyes and shook 
my head ever so slowly, maybe with a little hum.
With certainty I write that no other quotative has both 
the semantic potential or functional utility to perform all four communicative tasks I have identiﬁ  ed. So, even though it might be more reﬁ  ned to use the verb ‘say,’ it certainly is not nearly as efﬁ  cient or communicative.
Our view of language should be shaped by and reﬂ  ect 
language as it is used in everyday interactions, free of the 
tyranny of arbitrary “grammar” rules and irrelevant stylistics.
So, I challenge those reading this to listen a little closer 
to the linguistic interactions surrounding you: You will be 
shocked how prevalent ‘be like’ is. You might even be like “dang!”
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Do you know someone 
who could tell you the capital of Venezu-
ela? Or someone who 
knows where Iraq is on 
a map? It would be extremely difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd an average 
American who could point out 
more than two African coun-tries on a map, if even that. On the other hand, I’m sure it would be easy to ﬁ  nd someone who not only knows 
where France or Germany are located, but 
also wants to visit one of these countries.
In my world history class in high 
school, I was one of the students groan-
ing over having to read about the Song-
hai Empire when our time could be better spent learning about how racist Europe-ans were. I can’t really say four years of advanced placement history classes did 
much to improve my overall cultural ap-
preciation. When I visited the Art Institute of Chicago this past summer, I brushed right past the vacant galleries of African 
and Asian art to stand shoulder-to-shoul-
der with other Eurocentric tourists and gawk at post-impressionism and abstract art. Even the most progressive among us can’t honestly expect one to pass up the 
opportunity to see van Goghs and Picassos 
in order to gaze at work by an artist whose name I can’t even pronounce.
It would be hypocritical of me to pre-
tend I’ve made a conscious effort to learn as much about Asian and African cultures as I have European. I don’t expect to change anyone else’s deeply rooted Euro-centrism in fewer 700 words either. And 
honestly, there are bigger problems with 
American views than people preferring one part of an art museum to others. One of these bigger problems is not our under-
standing of the past, but how it affects our 
views of the present.
It doesn’t matter if you can’t point out 
every country on a map; life isn’t a ge-ography test. The problem is many don’t 
care about what is happening in those 
countries. American ignorance toward other cultures should not hinder the abil-ity of Americans to know and care about 
what occurs in other countries. Around this time last year, 
the news of Ebola outbreaks 
became a distant memory once 
it became evident that a cata-
strophic Ebola outbreak in the U.S. or Europe became highly improbable. The thing is, the 
World Health Organization 
didn’t declare this outbreak of Ebola to be a thing of the past 
in African countries until May of this year.
This column is not a diminishment of 
the tragic Paris attacks on Nov. 13, but while we sustain the level of urgency to prevent the loss of innocent lives from oc-curring again in Europe, Americans and 
Europeans should also be looking to pre-
vent tragedies of this scale the world-over. A day before the Paris attacks, suicide bombings in Lebanon killed 43 people and injured more than 200 others, but that 
event, which occurs more often in that re-
gion, was basically forgotten.
Terrorist attacks like the one in Paris 
should never happen, anywhere. If many 
of us are now urging for change not for 
the sake of the Mona Lisa or the Eiffel Tower but for the lives of human beings, we need to increase our scope for change to expand to all corners of the world. The 
famous quote by John Donne goes “any 
man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind.” A notion written about 400 years ago shouldn’t be qualiﬁ  ed 
with “depending on where they live.”
Americans don’t have to possess the 
urge to visit a country or be fascinated 
by its artwork to care about the people who live there. The lives of others in all 
countries should matter to everyone, even 
if some of us can’t name the capitals of those countries or locate them on a map. 
By the way, Venezuela’s capital is Ca-
racas, which had the highest number of homicides last year compared to any other city in the world, and Iraq is at the heart of Southwest Asia, still home to the high-est death rate from terrorist attacks.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineer-
ing freshman. His column appears on Wednesdays.You should care about other countries Column
On Tuesday, the animal rights network Direct Action Everywhere re-
leased an exposé of a 
top-rated Whole Foods 
turkey supplier that found thou-sands of birds in cramped, ﬁ  lthy 
sheds with open sores and crip-
pled legs. This investigation con-ﬁ  rms my personal experience searching for “humane” animal products: When you look behind the closed doors of 
animal agriculture, you will ﬁ  nd violence 
and cruelty that companies strive to keep hidden from the public.
I conducted my own independent re-
search on local and humane farms as a student at UF. I interviewed local farmers in North Florida and enrolled in a farm animal husbandry course. What I found left me disturbed and dejected. I made a 
short list of abusive practices, and sadly, 
every farmer I spoke to reluctantly ac-knowledged that they employed several of those practices on their farms. I asked a 
local dairy producer whether he brands his 
cows or cuts off their horns without pain-killers. With a sigh of regret, he admitted he couldn’t make enough proﬁ  t if he want-ed to provide them with basic pain relief.
This cruel reality directly contradicts 
the story perpetuated by the animal agri-culture industry — animal welfare is per-fectly aligned with the proﬁ  t interests of 
agribusiness. 
Unfortunately, this myth isn’t just ped-
dled by corporate lobbyists and ad agen-
cies, it is taught as dogma in state univer-sities under the guise of “animal science.” 
However, when pressed, the UF animal 
science department (where some of its research projects are funded by the beef industry) made it clear to me that being 
concerned ﬁ  rst and foremost about the an-
imals, as opposed to proﬁ  t, will earn you ridicule, not praise. According to a class-mate, our professor mocked my concern for animals when I wasn’t around.
Most will ﬁ  nd this hidden abuse to be 
shocking, not amusing. After all, if even the best animal farms are this abusive, it is hard to imagine how horriﬁ  c life is for the 
overwhelming majority of animals who are raised on farms that don’t 
even pretend to be humane.
But should it really be shock-
ing? How can we be shocked when animals are abused only shortly before they are killed and dismembered? How can we 
expect our society to adequately 
protect their lives when we are completely indifferent to their 
deaths? Doesn’t it make sense that a soci-ety that slaughters animals simply for the 
taste of their body parts will fail to protect 
their other fundamental interests as well?
Slaughterhouse workers have reported 
that it is too emotionally taxing to care 
about the animals they are forced to kill. 
Psychology research conﬁ  rms that mere awareness of the fact that certain animals are used for food causes people to devalue their mental capacities, and thus the value 
of their lives.
We will only be able to put a stop to 
this abuse when we stop killing animals 
for food and recognize them as individu-
als who deserve as much compassion as 
our dogs and cats. After visiting Florida’s amazing farmed animal sanctuaries and meeting cows, pigs, chickens and other animals, I have stopped searching for 
ethical ways to eat turkeys like Thomas, a 
turkey at CJ Acres Animal Rescue. I now understand Thomas has his own unique personality (he is a known ﬂ  irt), habits 
and interests just like other animals. I now 
understand there is nothing compassion-ate about killing him for food, despite what Whole Foods would lead us to believe.
Next Thanksgiving, I hope you will par-
don all animals and leave them off your plates. But much more importantly, I hope you will join the growing community of activists who are unmasking the violent 
truth behind animal agriculture and speak-
ing out against one of the greatest injus-tices of our time. That is the only humane thing to do.
Jay Shooster is a student at New York 
University School of Law. He has worked for the U.S. Department of Justice as well as leading human and animal rights organizations.Animal welfare cannot be dismissedGuest column
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgJay Shooster
Speaking OutIT WAS FOR UF’S 
FRESHMAN LEADERSHIP 
COUNCIL “FIELD, FORK 
AND FASHION” EVENT.
By Jennifer Jenkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students piled more than 120 
T-shirts, jeans and sweaters onto 
a table on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas on Tuesday.
The UF Freshman Leadership 
Council collected clothing for the Alachua County Coalition for the 
Homeless and Hungry, more than 50 nonperishable food donations for the UF Field and Fork Pantry and about $80 for the pantry at 
the first “Field, Fork and Fash-
ion” event. 
It served to teach students 
about how to donate to the pan-
try in the future, said Sofia Bever, 
19, FLC director of service pro-gramming.
“(The pantry is) just getting 
started, so anything they can get, 
they will be more than happy to 
take,” the UF biochemistry and finance sophomore said.
The clothing portion of the drive was set up to be like a thrift shop, she said. 
Students who donated five 
or more clothing items were al-
lowed to take an item from the 
pile home. 
If students donated food, 
clothing or money, they were en-tered into a raffle for gift cards.
“I think it is meant to not only 
bring together our student popu-
lation, but to unify Gators as well 
as the greater Alachua County population,” she said. 
UF sociology and political sci-
ence freshman Jireh Davis said she donated more than 10 cloth-ing items, but she didn’t take anything from the pile. 
“My parents have blessed me 
with a lot of things, so I thought, ‘Why not give to someone else who needs the items more than I do?’” the 18-year-old said.8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
Nick Noble, a 21-year-old UF accounting senior, attempts to knock 
over a water bottle with a ball slung around his head in a game called “Elephant Trunk” on the Plaza of the Americas. Donors to the UF Field and Fork Pantry played games at the Freshman Leadership Council’s “Field, Fork and Fashion” event.
LEFT:
Barbie Vanaki jumps in an alligator-themed bounce house Tuesday on the Plaza of the Americas. The 21-year-old UF psychology and criminology and law senior gave a dollar to the Freshman Leadership Council, which hosted the event, and got bottomless jumps in return.
BELOW:
Donors gave money, gently used clothes and nonperishable foods to the Freshman Leadership Council and will distribute them to UF’s food pantry and the Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry. Photos by Emma Green / Alligator 
Brady Bernstein, an 18-year-old UF criminology and law freshman, plays a game called “Junk in the Trunk” during the “Field, Fork and Fashion” event on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. The Fresh-man Leadership Council member, who is a part of the organization’s special events committee, shook a tissue box filled with Ping-Pong balls strapped to his back. Giving Gators: Students donate to homeless, hungry
“My parents have blessed 
me with a lot of things, so 
I thought, ‘Why not give to 
someone else who needs the 
items more than I do?’”
Jireh Davis
UF sociology and political 
science freshmanWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
12-9-15-17-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 
SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-
nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or 
unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. 
Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-9-15-73 -10 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-1298 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
COORDINATOR, friendly solo healthcare prac-tice. 10-14 hrs/wk. $11-14/hr. Pt. contact, records, accounts, HIPAA, ICD10 billing, scheduling, orga-nization/filing, phones, referrals. Non-smo.w/car. Spanish a+. FAX resume: 352-377-3193.    12-4-15-5-14RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
1-8-15-11-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring 
deli/bar help. No experience required. Must have reliable transportation. Applications ac-cepted at either 2327 NW 13th St or 5156 SW 34th St location.   12-9-15-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 “Mamma Mia!”
group
5 Tunes
10 Fundamentals
14 Talking iPhone
feature
15 Destroyer
destroyer
16 Messy stuff
17 __ smasher18 “I’m innocent!”19 Hindu deity20 High-speed war
plane maneuver
22 Hunter’s device23 Gets close to24 Cheat, in a way25 Seasonal malady27 Find work30 Shakespearean
fairy queen
33 Large-leafed tree35 Batman portrayer
Kilmer
36 Skating
commentatorLipinski
37 Passionate38 Dishes for
company
40 Eagerly excited
41 Golfer
Ballesteros
42 Furrow maker
43 Ruling period45 Charlemagne’s
realm: Abbr.
46 Avant-garde
48 Low or no
follower
49 Insert for a 6-
Down
51 Shoot well under
par, in golf lingo
53 Syria’s Bashar 
al-__
55 Focuses even
harder ... and ahint to the starts
of the answers to
starred clues
59 Letters after phis
60 “The Planets”
composer
61 Texter’s “If you
ask me”
62 Adorable63 Wipe off64 Dismissed, with
“off”
65 “Until next time,”
in texts
66 Oscar’s
roommate67 Tolkien’s
Treebeard et al.
DOWN
1 PDQ
2 __-Honey
3 *Rhode Island
school
4 Pop singer Mann5 *Like Southern
Californiabeaches
6 Duck player in
“Peter and theWolf”
7 Punishment with
a grounding
8 Risk, e.g.
9 Canonized Mlle.
10 Feel the same
way
11 *Title female
“trying to make a
devil out of me,”in a Santana hit
12 “¿__ está?”13 Fix, as a pet21 Blow one’s top22 Cotillion honoree24 *One of two cold
atmospheric
cyclones
25 Jiffy
26 Iron-rich meat28 Miller’s “__ From
the Bridge”29 First calendar 
pg.
31 Food court
attraction
32 Something to
pick lox for
34 ’50s political
monogram
36 Label
39 “__ so?”44 Fish caught in
pots
46 Author Buntline47 Tennis great
Andre
50 Studio piece52 “Swan Lake” swan53 Customer
holding: Abbr.
54 Closed
55 Produced, as fruit
56 Tel Aviv airline
57 Smidgen58 Quiet yeses60 Celeb with a
mansion
By Alan DerKazarian©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/02/1512/02/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, December 2, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
23 Rides 19 Connections 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Amanda Butler and the 
Florida women's basketball team downed South Alabama 72-60 on Tuesday night. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Quarterback Treon Harris has failed to 
move Florida’s offense over the last month.
Jim McElwain can only blame himself. The first-year UF coach has spent his 
first 12 months in Gainesville installing 
a pro-style offense, one that relies on the 
quarterback to be a quality pocket passer, a billing that Harris doesn’t quite fit.
But with Florida’s only other options at quarterback being a converted wide re-ceiver in Josh Grady and a group of practice 
squad bodies, McElwain has no choice but 
to send Harris out on every play.
“You need to look a little bit at me and 
what I’m asking him to do as well, and try-ing to push the envelope a little bit,” McEl-wain said. “That’s how we’re going to be 
offensively as we continue to grow.”
For now, Harris is Florida’s quarterback.
And McElwain said he has the utmost 
confidence in him heading into Saturday’s 
Southeastern Conference Championship 
Game against Alabama.
“He’s learning,” McElwain said. “He’s 
there, he’s engaged. … I’m glad he’s our quarterback.”
Harris’ pure passing numbers over the 
past four games have been paltry.
Dating back to the win against Vander-
bilt on Nov. 7, the 5-foot-11 sophomore has completed just 58 of his 112 passes (51.8 percent) for 670 yards. He’s thrown more interceptions (four) than touchdowns 
(three).
In Saturday’s 27-2 loss to Florida State, 
Harris accounted for just 134 yards on 19-
of-38 passing, averaging just 3.5 yards per  
attempt.
But his teammates said Harris’ confi-
dence hasn’t been rattled.
“He has good confidence,” running back 
Kelvin Taylor said. “He has to just keep on 
playing his game. … We’re just going to keep rallying around him and keep believ-ing in him and everything else will be OK.”
Added wide receiver Brandon Powell:  
“People judge him off of one game, but I mean that’s what people want to do. But as a team, we still love Treon and he’s going 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF men's golf gets commitment from middle schooler
Coach JC Deacon and the Florida men's golf team received a verbal commitment 
from 13-year-old Joseph Pagdin. Pagdin, who is mentored by PGA T our golfer Ian Poulter, said he has offers from 10 other prominent universities. He won the Press Thornton Future Masters in Dothan, Alabama, this year.Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris throws a pass during Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Coach 
Jim McElwain said his implementation of a pro-style offense is part of the reason for Harris' sluggish performance as of late.
Florida rallying around struggling sophomore quarterback 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
It began as Brandone Francis-
Ramirez drove into the paint, left 
his feet to spin in mid-air, and 
dropped a no-look, behind-the-
back pass into John Egbunu’s lap.
The 6-foot-11 center slammed 
the ball into the net, sparking an 
11-3 Florida run to end the first 
half that left Richmond playing catch-up. The Gators 
led for the re-
mainder of their 
76-56 rout of the 
Spiders in the O’Connell Cen-
ter on Tuesday 
night, shooting 41.2 percent 
from the field and holding the Spiders to their lowest point total 
of the season. 
“I haven’t been a part of a Gators squish Spiders 
with dominant first half By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
In the second quarter of Satur-
day’s game against Florida State, 
UF defensive back Jalen Tabor came inches away from knocking down a pass on fourth down.
Instead, the ball slipped just 
past his outstretched hand and into the arms of Seminoles tight end Jeremy Kerr for the game’s first touchdown — a lapse that made the game a two-possession contest for the remainder of the night.
But the score was also a first for another reason.
“First touchdown pass I’ve al-
lowed in my career,” Tabor said. “Hurt a little bit.”
For Florida to have any reason-
able chance at winning a South-eastern Conference Championship against Alabama on Saturday, he had better not give up a second.
Luckily for the Gators, with the 
way he and his counterpart Vernon 
Hargreaves have been playing this 
season, that doesn’t seem likely.
Everyone knows about Vernon 
Hargreaves.
He’s arguably the best cover 
man in college football and all-but-surely headed for a top selection in this spring’s NFL Draft.
He only has two pass break-
ups and six passes defended this 
year, largely because he doesn’t 
get thrown at as much due to his reputation, but he does have four interceptions, good for fourth in the SEC.
However, not everyone realizes 
how good Tabor is. 
In fact, the sophomore is having 
a better season than Hargreaves.
Tabor also has four intercep-
tions this year, but he leads the SEC in pass breakups (14) and passes defended (18) and is tied for 10th and tied for ninth nation-ally in the respective categories.
Of his four interceptions, he’s 
returned two for touchdowns, Secondary duo key to UF's successSEE TREON,  PAGE 15
SEE TABOR,  PAGE 15 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15“W e're just going to keep rallying 
around him and keep believing in him 
and everything else will be OK.”
Kelvin T aylor
UF running back
White
Each has 4 interceptions14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
  Celebrating the inauguration of  dr. w. kent fuchs 
the twelfth president of the University of Florida
WEDNESDAY 
        12/2
Campus Showcase
11 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.
North Lawn Tent
College of Liberal Arts  
and Sciences Open House11 a.m. – 2 p.m.Ocora at Pugh Hall
UF Libraries Curator Talk -  
Treasures from the Price  
Library of Judaica: Tales  
of the Rare and  Unexpected
2 – 3 p.mJudaica Suite, 208 SmathersTHURSDAY 12/3
Campus Showcase11 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.North Lawn Tent
Cultural Plaza Tours
1 – 4 p.m.
Cultural Plaza
UF Libraries Walking Tour –  
A Walk through UF History2 – 3 p.m.
Meet under the colonnade  
in front of Library West
Warrington College of Business 
Open House3 – 5 p.m.Heavener Hall
Herbert Wertheim College  
of Engineering Open House
3 – 5 p.m.New Engineering Building atrium
College of the Arts Reception  
and Exhibition4 p.m. University Gallery
College of the Arts Reception  
and School of Music Symphonic 
Band Concert
6:30 p.m. Reception7:30 p.m. Concert
University Auditorium
FRIDAY 12/4
Investiture Ceremony  
Live Streaming
3 – 4 p.m.Room 6120, HSCRoom 1066, McCarty Hall
Holland Law Center, Law School
Touchdown TerraceRoom A101, CSECounty Extension Offices
Inauguration Reception
4:30 – 6 p.m.
J. Wayne Reitz Union
Download the  
GatorWay app, 
or visit inauguration.ufl.edu for more  
information.
#UFprezInauguration Week
SCHEDULE of EVENTSsomething he gives Hargreaves — 
who has nearly double the return yards but has yet to find the end zone this year — a hard time about.
“That’s what I tell him — I 
score,” Tabor said.
Score or not, the duo has provid-
ed the Gators with much-needed as-surance on the outside all season by locking down their opponents’ best weapons, and they will need to do so again against the Crimson Tide on Saturday.
With Heisman Trophy frontrun-
ner Derrick Henry in the backfield for Alabama, Florida’s defense will need to prioritize stopping the run. 
As a byproduct of that, Har-
greaves and Tabor will likely be forced to play on islands frequently, covering man-to-man with no addi-
tional help while defensive coordi-
nator Geoff Collins sends defenders to load the box.
But just playing on a stage of 
this magnitude is a big deal for two players who have had their talent wasted on sub-par Florida teams up to this point.
Given that, this opportunity is 
that much sweeter.
“Oh, man, it makes it just feel 
that much better. Obviously I’ve never been to the SEC Champion-ship,” Hargreaves said. 
"We went through a lot. We 
had downs in the season but every-body stuck through and we pulled through. 
"We deserve to be here.”team like this that’s as talent-
ed on the glass as we are,” UF coach Mike White said. 
“And we showed signs of that 
tonight.”
Florida (6-1) dominated the 
glass, outrebounding Richmond 57-36 and tallying 23 second-
chance points to the Spiders’ six.
“When you get blocked out, 
when you get an elbow in your 
hip, when you get 245 pounds 
of muscle and it hits you as you 
guys collide,” White said. 
“It’s dirty work. It’s fighting 
for your team to get an extra pos-session. I think our guys have re-
ally embraced that.”
Two Gators finished with 
double-doubles: Egbunu led the 
Gators with 17 points and 14 re-
bounds while sophomore Devin 
Robinson collected 12 points and 13 rebounds.
And with Dorian Finney-
Smith adding 13 rebounds, the 
Gators became the third major-
conference team in the last 20 seasons to have three players with at least 13 rebounds.
“That was our primary fo-
cus,” Egbunu said of UF’s re-bounding.
The Spiders (4-3) entered 
Tuesday night’s game averaging 86 points per contest and shoot-
ing 50.1 percent from the field. 
On Tuesday, UF held them to 
33.9 percent shooting from the 
field, Richmond’s lowest aver-age of the season, and 35 percent 
from three.
UF started the game with an 
8-0 lead after two three-point-
ers from KeVaughn Allen and Dorian Finney-Smith followed by a pair of free throws from 
Finney-Smith. 
“It was just us making an ad-
justment,” Egbunu said. 
“We recognized that, in the 
first half, we usually came out a 
little slow. And we came out this first half ready.”
Finney-Smith finished with 
nine points and seven assists, 
while Allen had 10 points on 
4-of-8 shooting.
“They’re a great offensive 
team, so we knew we had to 
come out and turn up the inten-sity because you can’t let them 
going,” Finney-Smith said of Richmond. 
“They get going, and they’re a 
hard team to stop.”
The Spiders rallied to come 
within 10-8 early in the first half, but were unable to take a lead for the remainder of the game.
Florida took a 40-17 lead into 
the half and built on it during the second, at one point leading 
by as many as 28 points.
Next, the Gators will travel to 
face No. 21 Miami at 7 p.m. on 
Tuesday, with the game being 
broadcast on ESPN2.
“We’re going to have to bring 
our own energy and our own ef-
fort,” Kasey Hill said.
“It’s just going to get way 
tougher.”WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
T eammates celebrate with Jalen T abor (31) after he intercepts a 
pass during Florida's 20-14 win over Florida Atlantic on Nov. 21. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
John Egbunu goes up for a dunk during Florida's 76-56 win over Richmond on Tuesday in the O'Connell Center. 
TABOR,  from pg13Tabor gave up his first 
career touchdown vs. FSU HOOPS,  from pg13UF outrebounded Richmond 57-36
to be our quarterback Saturday. And we’re 
going to go out and try to get that W.”
At the top of Harris’ skill set is his abil-
ity to scramble and keep plays alive with his feet.
But the Gators have failed to utilize that 
talent as of late — partly because of the of-
fensive scheme, partly because of the injury 
risk — even though they see success when Harris tucks the ball away and runs.
Not including the 15 times he was 
sacked, Harris has rushed the ball just 25 
times in the last four games.
On those 25 carries, he’s gained 168 
yards, a 6.7 yards-per-carry average.“I just think that’s a part of his game 
that makes him excel, the ability to excel 
at the position you can use his feet to make 
plays,” tight end Jake McGee said, “but he 
also has a heck of an arm and it’s something that we need to be able to use this week.”
McElwain could let Harris run free 
against Alabama.
Since McElwain left Alabama to become 
a head coach before the 2012 season, Ala-bama has racked up just six losses.
Of those six, four saw the opposing quar-terback rush at least 10 times.
Giving Harris room to run could be the 
deciding factor.
It defies McElwain’s style, but he’ll take 
the gamble if it means the chance to pull off the upset.
“We’ll put something together to hope-
fully at least make them think,” McElwain 
said. 
“My biggest thing is I just hope they 
come away scratching their heads and say, 
‘that was cute.’”TREON,  from pg13McElwain might have Harris run more against Alabama
“My biggest thing is I just hope they 
come away scratching their heads and 
say, 'that was cute.'”
Jim McElwain
UF football coachBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
When No. 18 Florida and No. 
2 Alabama face off in the South-
eastern Conference Championship 
Game at 4 p.m. Saturday, it’ll be the 
eighth matchup between the two for the conference crown. The Gators own the all-time record against 
the Crimson Tide in the title game, 
4-3. Here’s a look at how the other matchups panned out.
1992: Alabama 28, Florida 21
The Gators reached the inaugural 
conference championship game in 
Birmingham, Alabama, after win-ning their ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve SEC games. Af-
ter falling behind the Crimson Tide 
21-7 early in the third quarter, the Gators tied the game with a pair of touchdowns — a 4-yard touchdown pass from Shane Matthews to Wil-
lie Jackson in the third quarter and 
a 21-yard run by Errict Rhett with about eight minutes left in regula-tion. Despite Florida’s late push, 
Alabama sealed the game on an 
Antonio Langham pick-six with 3:16 to play. The Crimson Tide went on to win the national title with a 34-13 win against Miami in the Sugar 
Bowl.
1993: Florida 28, Alabama 13
One year later, the Gators and 
Crimson Tide found themselves against each yet again in the SEC Championship. This time, though, Florida turned the tables with their punter providing the edge. Holding 
onto a 14-13 lead in the third quar-
ter and facing a fourth and 8, punter Shayne Edge took the snap and ran 20 yards to move the chains. Quar-
terback Terry Dean found Jack Jack-
son for a 43-yard touchdown one play later to give UF a 21-13 lead. The Gators held on to win.
1994: Florida 24, Alabama 23The ﬁ  rst SEC Championship 
game to be played in the Georgia Dome turned out to be one of the 
most contested in the champion-
ship game’s history and one that showcased Steve Spurrier’s prow-ess. With the Gators down by six in the fourth quarter and quarter-
back Danny Wuerffel limping to the 
sideline, backup signal caller Eric Kresser ﬁ  red a dart to Aubry Hill for 25 yards. Wuerffel then returned to 
the game. Two plays later, a double 
pass moved the Gators to the 2-yard line, setting up a Wuerffel-to-Chris-Doering shot for the game-winner.
1996: Florida 45, Alabama 30Fresh off a three-point loss to 
Florida State, Florida played Ala-bama with a vengeance. Danny Wuerffel threw for an SEC-record 
401 yards and six touchdown passes 
to lead the Gators to their fourth consecutive SEC title. The win gave the Gators a second date with FSU, 
this time for a national title. Florida 
won the rematch 52-20 to claim the program’s ﬁ  rst national title.
1999: Alabama 34, Florida 7
The Gators, who lost to the 
Crimson Tide two months earlier 
in a 40-39 overtime thriller, looked to rebound and defeat Alabama on the second time around. Instead, 
Alabama simply rolled. Florida drew 
ﬁ  rst blood on a trick play when tail-back Earnest Graham threw a 3-yard touchdown to tight end Erron Kin-
ney, but it was all Alabama from 
there. The Crimson Tide defense forced four interceptions and the of-fense racked up 462 yards to hand UF its most lopsided loss to Alabama 
in an SEC Championship game.
2008: Florida 31, Alabama 20
Down 20-17 as the third quarter 
drew to a close, the Gators scored back-to-back touchdowns on a 1-yard Jeff Demps rushing touch-down and a 5-yard pass from Tim Tebow to Riley Cooper to take a 31-
20 lead with 2:50 remaining in the 
game. 
Cornerback Joe Haden sealed 
Florida’s victory with an interception 
along the right sideline with about 
90 seconds to play. The Gators went on to the BCS Championship game, where they defeated Oklahoma 24-14 for the third national title in pro-
gram history.
2009: Alabama 32, Florida 13
Eventual Heisman Trophy win-
ner and ﬁ  rst-team All-American Mark Ingram rushed for 113 yards and scored three of Alabama’s four touchdowns. Quarterback Greg McElroy also threw for 239 yards 
and a touchdown on just 12 comple-
tions en route to MVP honors. The Gators put up a ﬁ  ght early, trail-ing just 19-13 at halftime, but Ala-
bama’s defense shut Tebow and Co. 
down in the ﬁ  nal 30 minutes.16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015
AP Photo
Alabama coach Nick Saban walks on the ﬁ  eld before the Crimson Tide’s 29-13 win over Auburn on 
Saturday at Jordan-Hare Stadium in Auburn, Alabama. 
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
Looking back at the UF-Bama SEC Championship rivalry