We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 126 FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
Michael Frazier leaving for NBA 
Draft
The junior led Florida in scoring this season 
before injuring his ankle, pg 14
It’s time for some menstruation maturation
Read Robyn Smith’s take on periods, pg 7
Bar known for Neon Liger dance party closes 
after seven years
The Motor Room is hosting its last event Saturday, pg 5GRAPHIC
Learn how in the world concrete canoes don’t sink, pg 8Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Back to the Future
Trace Hance, left, a 21-year-old UF telecommunication junior, and Neal Romberg, a 21-year-old UF music education junior, look on as adjunct music lecturer James Jenkins, 53, sits in Hance’s stainless-steel Delorean. Hance said he received the car as a high school graduation gift, and it was featured at the South Carolina-Florida football game when the marching band’s halftime show theme was “Back T o The Future. ”
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Kristen Fox’s last meal was beef 
stroganoff.
It was homemade: noodles 
drenched in a sauce of sour cream, milk, broth and chunks of beef. She savored the sensation of noodles, the taste of the dish she loved, be-fore she threw it up one last time.
The next morning, on Jan. 13, 
doctors inserted a catheter in her body. Instead of eating meals, she would now receive nutrients through her veins.
She hasn’t had a meal since.
      
The catheter is the latest defense 
in Fox’s battle against gastroparesis with general dysmotility of the in-testinal tract — a chronic stomach disorder that prevents her stomach and her intestine muscles from dis-solving food.
Despite the disorder, the 22-year-
old, who now lives in Colorado Springs, Colorado, graduated cum laude from UF in May 2014 with a degree in health science. The day of her ﬁ  nal meal, she published “A Blessing in Disguise,” a book about her struggle with the disorder.
“Instead of living every day like 
I’m sick, I try to live every day like I’m not sick,” Fox said. “It makes UF alumna publishes book, thrives with chronic condition
By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
A new member of UF’s Board of Trustees has been ap-
pointed. But in order for that to mean anything, it’s impor-
tant to know what the Board does. 
Anita Zucker is the newest addition to the 13-member 
board. Zucker is taking over for Carolyn Roberts, whose 
term was up, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said.
The Board of Trustees is UF’s legal owner and ﬁ  nal au-
thority, according to the university. The board is in charge 
of making policies, prioritizing resources, budgeting, and maintaining programs and education standards.
When a trustee member’s 
term is up, the Florida univer-sity system’s Board of Gover-nors collects nominations and 
applications before the board or 
the governor makes a selection, Sikes said.
For being such an important part of the university, 
however, the board may be something few students know about.
“I’ve heard about the board, but in a very loose sense,” 
said Randy Bayas, a 20-year-old UF English junior. “They do things. That’s all I know.”
Bayas said the only reason he knew the board existed 
was because he was involved in the push for UF to give undocumented students in-state tuition.
“They’re kind of removed from the students in a way,” 
he said. “I don’t even know where they meet. I don’t think there’s really a (recognizable) face in the Board of Trust-ees.”
Lily Iglesias, 22, didn’t know the board existed. Though 
she said she knew someone had to be in charge of the uni-
versity overall, she didn’t know who.
“I think I’m pretty involved, and I didn’t know about 
it,” Iglesias, a UF biology major, said. “I’m a senior — I’ve 
been here four years. I would think the younger kids would know even less.”
If more students knew about the board, Iglesias said she 
believes more would want to be involved.
Bayas said the university should do more outreach for 
students to get them involved in the upper-level workings 
of UF. He said he likes President Fuchs’ presence on cam-
pus.
“What Fuchs is doing right now is a good start,” said Get to know UF’s 
Board of Trustees with new memberSEE PROFILE,  PAGE 3
SEE TRUSTEES,  PAGE 4By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
A political group representing fra-
ternities and sororities plans to lobby 
against campus rape investigations, and UF’s community has not yet taken a stance.
The Fraternity and Sorority Political Action Committee, known as FratPAC, is made up of students from sororities and fraternities who hope to make it more difﬁ  cult for universities and col-leges to conduct sexual assault investi-gations and instead refer the investiga-tion to law enforcement.
The group plans to visit Washington, 
D.C., this spring. It will not be the ﬁ  rst time FratPAC has lobbied in Washing-ton. In 2012, the group lobbied for tax breaks for fraternities and against a haz-ing proposal, according to Bloomberg Business.
Also according to Bloomberg Busi-
ness, the group is lobbying Congress for a requirement that the criminal justice system resolves cases before universi-ties or colleges investigate or imple-ment punishments. Another issue on the group’s agenda is to have a rule that prevents any mandate for chapters to go 
FratPAC gears up, but not at UF yet
SEE FRAT,  PAGE 4About rape investigationsCAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 126
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vote to Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest 
videos are up on UF’s Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education Facebook page and are awaiting your views. Check out all three and like your favor-
ites. Videos are awarded points 
in the Fan Favorites category of judging based on Facebook likes at facebook.com/STRIVEUF/videos.Voting ends Tuesday.
Survivors of Violence Art 
Exhibit submissionsAlachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center is seek-
ing art submissions for the 2015 Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit held April 24 to 30 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris 
Books in Gainesville. Survivors 
are encouraged to submit origi-nal artwork of all forms, includ-ing performance pieces. For 
more information, call 352-264-
6763.
Fifth annual GASA Glenti
The Greek American Student 
Association and the Department 
of Classics present the GASA Glenti. Join us in the Touchdown Terrace in Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium from 8 to 11 
p.m. tonight. Listen to tradition-al Greek music, taste authentic Greek cuisine and experience the culture of Greece. The event 
is free and open to the public.
Gay Movie Night tonight at 7:30 
p.m.“Southern Baptist Sissies” is a 
film adaptation of the theatrical experience of writer and direc-tor Del Shores’ GLAAD Award-winning play about four gay 
boys growing up in the Southern 
Baptist Church. The intimate ex-perience of theater on the film screen reveals the complicated 
emotions from all sides — the 
confused child, the struggling adolescent and the angry, dam-aged adult. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride 
Community Center of North 
Central Florida, 3131 NW 13th St. A $2 donation is requested to help cover the cost of snacks.
Art and Science Panel 
DiscussionJoin artists, scientists and cura-tors at the Harn Museum of Art 
on Saturday at 2 p.m. as they engage with the shared history 
of science and art highlighted in the installation “Repurposing the Wunderkammer: Building a 
New Space for Science and Art” 
and welcome audience discus-sion on future collaborations in these disciplines. For more 
information, visit harn.ufl.edu/
exhibitions/artandtechnology or contact eking@harn.ufl.edu. The Harn Museum offers free admission and parking is free 
on weekends.
Interorganizational Mock Trial
Are you interested in moot court, mock trial or trial advo-
cacy in general? The Pre-Legal Honor Society, Phi Alpha Delta and the Liti-Gators will be competing in an interorganiza-
tional mock trial competition 
this weekend in the Advocacy Center of the UF Levin College of Law. The first round will take 
place Saturday from 8:30 a.m. 
to around noon. The second round will take place the same day from 1 to around 4 p.m. The third and final champion-
ship round will take place from 
9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Sunday. Cost of attendance will be $5 for full admission to all three rounds. 
All proceeds will benefit the 
Wounded Warriors Project.
Fitness Workshop: Olympic 
Weightlifting (Intermediate)
Registration for our intermediate 
Olympic Weightlifting Fitness Workshop opens Sunday at 8 a.m. The intermediate course 
focuses on loaded lifts to pre-
pare participants for the OWL test to gain access to the plat-forms. To be eligible for the intermediate course, you must 
have taken the beginner course. 
The workshop will be held at Southwest Recreation Center on April 5. Register on rsconnect.
recsports.ufl.edu. There is a $15 
nonrefundable registration fee.
‘Theorizing Shamanism in the 
Contested Field between 
Academia, Colonialism, and 
Religious Practice’Kocku von Stuckrad of the University of Groningen, 
Netherlands, will be giving a lec-
ture on Shamanism on Tuesday from 6:15 to 8:10 p.m. in Pugh Hall, Room 170. Discourses of authenticity and appropriation 
of religious heritage mark the 
borders of this contested field. The lecture addresses the un-derlying dynamics with a focus on what is often called “neo-shamanism.” He argues that 
this religious practice is in fact 
the materialization of schol-arly discourses more or less de-tached from “indigenous tradi-
tion,” although the construction 
of “indigenousness” plays an important role in the formation and validation of knowledge in this field. This event is free and 
open to the public. A reception 
in honor of Stuckrad will be held afterward.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In a story published March 26 
under the headline "Netflix Binge Drinking Game: Breaking Bad," the Alligator incorrectly stated that the writer's name was Moriah Gaynor. The writ-er's name is Andrew Osorio.
In a story published March 26 
under the headline Big Orange Fest acts split into two shows, the Alligator incorrectly stated that students can only see one of the two shows. While they could only pick up a voucher for one show, they can wait stand-by to see the other act, said Heather Halak, the Big Orange Fest chairwoman. Those in the voucher line will be allowed into the room first, and if they don't arrive on time, their spot is for-feited to someone in the standby line. An additional quantity of vouchers per act was saved for the day of the show for people in the standby line. However, they are not guaranteed entry.FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
me feel kind of normal.”
      
When she was a child, Fox 
could still eat her favorite foods: 
pizza and pasta.
As a baby, doctors said the pain 
in her stomach was colic and sent her to see a digestive tract disease specialist.
But as she grew older, the pain 
worsened, and the list of foods she could eat without throwing up shrank.
“We knew all along she was 
very sensitive. ... It just got pro-gressively worse,” said her father, Tim Fox, 52. “As a parent, it’s ob-viously very difﬁ  cult to see one of your children that you love deeply go through any suffering.”
When she was a teenager, doc-
tors thought it was an eating dis-order and told her to change her mindset.“It was twisted,” Fox said. “I 
tried to convince myself that I had an eating disorder because I thought I would get better if I did.”
It wasn’t until she was about 15 
that the words “gastroparesis” and 
“dysmotility of the digestive tract” 
became part of the conversation.
For Cynthia Clare, who oversees 
Fox’s case as a nurse with Maxim Healthcare Services, Fox is the only 
patient with the disorder she’s ever 
seen.
“She’s very, very compliant. A 
very good patient,” Clare said.
In 2012, doctors inserted a gas-
trostomy tube in her stomach, and she began pumping nutritional for-
mula. But when the formula accu-
mulated in her stomach over time, she switched to the catheter and a 
more personalized formula.
Things have started to improve 
since.
Fox has had nausea but very lit-
tle vomiting. Even her weight, the most noticeable side effect, has im-
proved: She’s gained seven pounds since the catheter insertion, push-ing her 5-foot-3-inch frame to carry 76 pounds.
“She’s amazing,” Clare said. 
“She’s a trooper.”
      
UF was a chance for normalcy.“I really wanted to experience 
what college was like,” Fox said.
She played club lacrosse her 
freshman year and cheered her team on for the three years she couldn’t play. She became a mem-ber of Gator Emergency Medical Services and Delta Epsilon Iota Academic Honor Society.
She studied to distract herself 
from the pain.
And when she graduated, Fox 
was triumphant.
“She has the grit and determi-
nation to push through,” her fa-ther said. “To see her ﬁ  nally reach the ﬁ  nish line, I was really joyful, proud and excited for her.”
The hardest part, Fox said, is to 
keep ﬁ  ghting.“Part of me is like, I just want to 
go to heaven,” she said. “There’s no pain there. There’s no suffering. I’m tired of artiﬁ  cial things keeping 
me alive.”
Sometimes Fox will chew a piece 
of bread or pasta. It reminds her of 
the taste of food before she spits it 
out. Other times, she’ll drink chai 
tea, but drain it out through the 
tube in her stomach.
It keeps her sane, she said.One of her biggest fears isn’t for 
herself — it’s for her children.
“I don’t know if I’ll even be able 
to have children,” Fox said. “But my biggest fear is that it’s heredi-tary. I don’t ever want someone to 
go through this.”
      
Despite her struggle, Fox said 
she tries to remain positive with 
the support of her friends and fam-ily. She wrote her book to encour-age others going through similar hardships.
“A lot of people told me I couldn’t go to college,” Fox said. “A lot of people suggested I was cursed. What I try to tell people 
is that I could look at my life as a 
curse, or I could look at my life as a blessing. I would not be able to relate to people suffering if I didn’t have this.”
Her book contains a series of 
essays written about living with her disorder from late 2013 to late 2014. It also contains essays dedi-cated to her family members be-cause, she said, she would have given up without them and her friends.
In January, Fox hopes to pur-
sue physician assistant studies at the University of Saint Francis in Albuquerque, New Mexico — an acceptance she deferred because of the disorder.
“Doctors have questioned why 
I’m still alive,” she said. “I say that the reason that I’m alive is because God keeps putting air in my lungs, and that means he wants me to ﬁ  ght.”PROFILE,  from pg1She’s 5-foot-3-inches and 76 pounds; has gained 7 since diagnosis
Courtesy to the Alligator
Kristen Fox, 22, poses next to a sign outside the Health Professions, Nursing and Pharmacy School after her graduation in May 2014 with a health science degree.  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Fox poses with her family outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium after her graduation in May 2014 with a health science degree. Fox said graduating from UF was one of her big-gest triumphs.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Apples on the Avenue
A Boston man going by the name Apples plays the banjo outside a building at 201 W. University Ave. on 
Thursday morning. “I don’t have a chord book or anything, so I just kind of make make up my own stuff, ” he said. “It’s better than being alone with my thoughts. ”
By Ashley Pancoast
Alligator Contributing Writer
An update for a phone app made solely for UF stu-
dents is now available.
Meerchat has been a startup project for Nick Vin-
son, Carlo Pascoe and Jonathan Burnett for almost 
a year. The group co-founded Bafit LLC and began working on the app that was released on the Apple App Store on Jan. 6. A new update hit the app store 
Thursday.
Meerchat is currently only available for iPhone us-
ers, but an Android version is being developed. Co-
founder Burnett said they hope to have it released by the end of summer.
Vinson, the 23-year-old Bafit CEO, said he got the 
idea for the app as he was watching “Meerkat Manor.” After the animal caught his attention, he looked them up and read they die out when they become solitary.
“They need community,” he said. “They need this 
sense of belonging in order to thrive.”Burnett, 22, said from that point they set out to cre-
ate a social media app that would help connect UF 
students with one another.
Users can post live videos three to 10 seconds in 
length. To contact other users, one has to respond 
with another live video. The option to include text opens once an initial connection has been made.
“Forcing people to use video is really the secret 
sauce,” Burnett said.
The app requires a GatorLink email and connects 
to a user’s Facebook account for security, but there are no profiles. The video is the user’s identity, Vinson 
said.
“We’re Gators,” Vinson said. “We made a social 
network for Gators.”Gators create new social video app
By Ariana Brasman
Alligator Contributing Writer
A freedom of information 
conference kicked off Thursday 
night with a UF alumna sharing 
her experiences as an investiga-
tive reporter.
Author and investigative jour-
nalist Sharyl Attkisson spoke in 
Weimer Hall’s Gannett Audito-
rium during a lecture called “The Rightful Owners of Public Infor-mation.”
The event was the start of 
a two-day conference called “Breaking Down Walls: The Fight for Open Government.”
Attkisson spoke to a full audi-
ence on the Freedom of Informa-tion law and how government officials tend to prolong releas-ing documents.  
“The idea (of the law) was 
… all the things federal officials and elected officials do for us is our information: We own it, not them, and we should be able to 
have access to it without a lot of 
trouble,” Attkisson said.
She said the federal bureau-
cracy seeks to advance itself by controlling the flow of informa-
tion.
“By making a Freedom of In-
formation request, it simply said, 
‘You have to provide this pub-lic information to me, and you ought to do it in 30 days,’” she 
said.
She said the materials belong 
to the public and should not be 
kept as officials’ secrets.
“(Journalists) are here to do 
what’s right for the public opin-ion,” Attkisson said.
Leanna Scachetti, a UF tele-
communication senior, said she attended the speech because she is not too familiar with the Free-
dom of Information law.
“I thought this would be a 
great opportunity for me as an 
aspiring journalist to learn about it now, so when I go to the work-
force very soon, I’ll have an un-
derstanding with it,” Scachetti, 21, said.  
She said she wants to take ad-
vantage of learning from estab-lished journalists.
“I think it’s important as fu-
ture journalists do our home-work and to not get compla-
cent,” Scachetti said.Event on freedom of 
information opens with UF alumna
Bayas. “(Former UF president 
Bernie Machen) wasn’t seen around very often. He was anoth-er faceless voice in many ways.”
The university informs media, 
including the Alligator, about up-coming board meetings in hopes of spreading the word, Sikes said. UF doesn’t specifically reach out to students in other ways.
Sikes said she has seen stu-
dents attend meetings for the Educational Policy and Strategy Committee, which she said fo-
cuses on student issues and pro-
grams. Other than that, Sikes said she hasn’t seen a lot of student involvement with the board.
All of the board’s meetings are required to be open to the public, 
according to the board’s bylaws. 
Students can also request to ad-dress the board about agenda items.
It is up to students whether 
they decide to be informed about the Board of Trustees, Sikes said.
“They certainly perform very 
important duties that impact on the overall quality of the student experience at the university,” she said.
While 11 of the members are 
selected by the governor and the Board of Governors, the last two members are the faculty senate chair and the Student Body presi-dent.
Pradeep Kumar, the current 
chair and a UF physics professor, said student involvement is low because of their busy schedules, but meeting attendance tends to increase when important issues are discussed.
“If the subject is of interest 
and controversial, then they do show up,” Kumar said. “If not, then they believe in their repre-sentation.”
Kumar said student involve-
ment increased when UF was se-lecting a new president. During the process, two meetings were held, one for just students and one for just faculty.
“These were large auditori-
ums, and they were filled with people,” Kumar said.
More information about the 
Board of Trustees can be found at trustees.ufl.edu. The next meet-ing is Monday.
TRUSTEES,  from pg1Prez search upped student involvementcoed.
According to Alligator Ar-
chives, the most recent UF fra-
ternity under investigation after sexual battery was reported at Tau Epsilon Phi in 2010. Other sexual battery cases that oc-curred on and off campus frater-nity houses since then are still pending, according to the UF Police Department’s crime log.
No Greek organizations have 
approached the Greek Affairs cabinet about FratPAC, said Ste-phen Goldie, the Student Gov-ernment Cabinet Director for Greek Affairs.
“Right now it’s a pretty new 
topic, so not much has occurred yet,” the 20-year-old UF ac-counting sophomore said.
He said FratPAC could be a 
topic of discussion at the end-of-the-month meetings.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email that FratPAC has not reached out to UF.
“The university handles dis-
ciplinary case involving frater-nities and sororities on a case-by-case basis, and we have no plans to change that practice,” he said.
President of the UF Panhel-
lenic Council Maria Carter de-clined to comment because she said she didn’t know enough about the topic.
Jack Causseaux, Director of 
Sorority and Fraternity Affairs, said no Greek organizations showed interest in supporting or opposing the group.
He said there have been in-
formal talks among Greek or-ganizations on whether it’s fair to punish all of Greek life if one organization is under investiga-tion. But nothing has come from those conversations, he said.
“I think our (Greek) com-
munity understands that there is that shared accountability,” Causseaux said.
FRAT,  from pg1FratPAC hasn’t reached 
out to UF organizations“They need this sense of belonging in order to 
survive.”
Nick Vinson
co-founder
“W e own it (information), 
not them, and we should 
be able to have access to it 
without a lot of trouble,”
Sharyl Attkisson
UF alumna and investigative 
journalistFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Stronger Than Stigma
Dr. Kent Wenger, a local psychiatrist, speaks about the importance of talking about mental health at 
Stronger Than Stigma’s event “Mythbusters: Psychiatry Edition. ” Wenger said, “Healthy relationships will improve your health and increase your strength. ”
IT DEPENDS ON GOV . RICK SCOTT’S 
BUDGET BEING PASSED.
By Lindsay Alexander
Alligator Contributing Writer
Roxanne Eugene has stayed in Gainesville every Sum-
mer since 2013 to complete classes required to apply for 
physical therapy school.
Eugene, a UF applied physiology and kinesiology ju-
nior, said some classes aren’t included in her major’s de-
gree audit and she’ll take biology and its lab component 
this Summer. 
She has taken out loans every Summer, and last year’s 
added up to $2,500. The 21-year-old said she hasn’t yet been able to pay them off.
Eugene is one of more than 25,000 UF undergraduate 
students who qualify for Bright Futures, but the schol-arship doesn’t cover the Summer terms. However, the Florida Legislature can vote to change that with a $23.5 
million proposal in Gov. Rick Scott’s Keep Florida Work-
ing Budget.
Students who currently qualify for Bright Futures re-
ceive up to five years of partial funding for each under-graduate credit hour taken in the Fall and Spring.
The legislative session started March 3 and ends in 
May.
Eugene is free of loans in the Fall and Spring with 
help from Bright Futures.
“If we do receive Bright Futures during the summer, 
it will help tremendously,” Eugene said.
Rick Wilder, the director of the UF Office for Student 
Financial Affairs, said it is helpful that most students aren’t required to pay Bright Futures back.
“For those students who are attending Summer, I 
think it will be a great thing,” Wilder said.
Michelle Nguyen, a UF biology senior, paid for two 
Summers of classes — one at UF and one at the Univer-sity of South Florida — without taking out loans.
She paid for her first Summer of classes with the pre-
vious school year’s financial aid and the second Summer with a research scholarship. She said it was difficult to divide her finances in the Fall and Spring and plan for 
Summer.
“As a low-income student, it’s really difficult to bal-
ance the two,” Nguyen, 21, said. “Expanding it to Sum-
mer would really just make it more convenient to stu-dents to learn.”Bright Futures might cover Summer
THE BILL IS BY REP . KEITH 
PERRY.
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
While a bill aiming to change 
Gainesville Regional Utilities au-thority advances through the Florida House, the Gainesville City Commission is working to 
resolve the governance issue lo-
cally.
Commissioners Lauren Poe 
and Randy Wells met Thursday to outline a blueprint for an advisory board — an initiative to counter-act Rep. Keith Perry’s Florida House Bill 1325. The board would provide recommendations to the 
Commission on everything GRU-
related.
“We’re doing this despite 
what’s going on in Tallahassee,” Poe said.
GRU is owned by the city and 
operated by the Commission. The GRU governance bill transfers authority from the Commission 
to an independent, five-member 
board that would focus solely on running the utility. This would re-quire a change in the city charter via a voter referendum.
Others giving input on the 
matter included Commissioner Helen Warren, City Attorney Nicolle Shalley and former Com-
missioner Susan Bottcher.
The main points tackled in-
cluded the number of board 
members, how each would be ap-pointed, their qualifications and the scope of their responsibilities.
Poe and Wells agreed on a 
seven- to nine-member board, in which one-third would be ap-
pointed by Alachua County to 
represent GRU customers outside the city.
“Every single utility-related 
issue would now come to this board,” Poe said, meaning the Regional Utility Committee would be dissolved, as would the Budget and Rate Oversight Board, which was in the works.
The Gainesville Energy Advi-
sory Committee’s duties would wrap into the new advisory board.
The board would be able to 
pursue its own agenda items independent from the Commis-sion’s. It would also make overall recommendations for a proposed budget and rate.
Members would also have the 
power to make referrals to an au-ditor.
All agreed that meetings 
would be held once a month, as well as on an as-needed basis. Board meetings should be timed 
near commission meetings so rec-
ommendations could be reviewed as soon as possible, Poe said.
Wells suggested the advisory 
board meet separately from the Commission.
“I would really like this board 
to develop its independence and 
to develop a lot of credibility in 
the community,” Wells said.
Qualifications for board mem-
bers should remain broad to have a large pool of community mem-bers to choose from, Poe said.
The ideas from Thursday will 
be presented to the full Com-mission on Monday. If a general agreement is reached, it will be put on the Commission’s regular agenda for Thursday.
Jim Konish, a Gainesville resi-
dent at the meeting, disapproved of the idea of an advisory board and backed Perry’s bill.
“This bill is going to pass, Sir,” 
Konish said. “Because everybody 
knows how mismanaged the util-
ity is. Not because we have bad 
people, but because we have people that don’t have the time or the expertise to preside over the utility.”City commissioners 
discuss counteracting GRU governance bill
By James McLaughlin
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Gainesville bar is officially clos-
ing Sunday, and with it goes the Le 
Neon Liger X Dance Party.
A slow decline at The 
Motor Room — where 
Neon Liger took place ev-
ery Saturday — over the past 18 months has led co-owners Vijay Seixas and Jimbo Rountree to close shop and move on. Seixas said Neon Liger was the only event keeping the bar afloat.
“This wasn’t something that came out of nowhere,” Seixas said of the closing.
Seixas and Rountree are now pur-
suing other careers.
“Most of me is sad, but a part of 
me is relieved that I can take what I learned and apply it to future endeav-ors outside of Gainesville,” Seixas said.
Seixas, who often 
worked as a DJ during Neon Liger, 
accepted a job at Grooveshark.
He said owning The Motor Room 
was a natural, yet unplanned pro-
gression to him pursuing his passion for electronic music.
Seixas met Danny Robinson, 
owner of 2nd Street Speakeasy, after starting the Neon Liger in 2008 with his friends.     
Seixas bought out Robinson’s old 
partner in 2011 with his long-time friend, Rountree. The two changed that bar’s name from Spannk to The Motor Room in 2014.
Seixas said he enjoyed planning 
the Neon Liger parties more than 
the management aspect. For him, 
it became more of a necessity when Robinson approached him and em-phasized the importance of his event in keeping The Motor Room open.
“If it was up to me, I would have 
had nothing to do with it all,” Seixas said about owning the bar.
Rachel Huber, a 29-year-old bar-
tender for The University Club, said her workplace competed with The 
Motor Room on Tuesday karaoke 
nights. The Motor Room’s free ad-mission initially drew some custom-ers away before UC reduced its cover charge
Nadia Durrani, a 22-year-old UF 
public relations senior, said The Mo-tor Room had a different vibe from other Gainesville bars.
“I think the thing that made Mo-
tor Room stand out from other plac-es in Gainesville is that it just has such a tight-knit community,” Dur-rani said. “When you walk in there, whether it’s on a Friday or Saturday, you are just immediately surrounded by familiar faces that are there every weekend supporting the local tal-ent.”
On Saturday, the bar’s last event 
Neon Liger the End Part 2 will fea-ture DJ Sketch. There will also be free entry. Seixas DJ’d the night of his farewell, Neon Liger The End Part 1 on Saturday.
“This was never my club. It be-
longed to all of us,” Seixas said. “I am forever grateful to every single 
performer that graced our iconic 
plymouth DJ booth. They made it what it is. I cherish every moment.”
Bar known for Neon Liger dance party closing after 7 years
LOCAL“W e’re doing this despite 
what’s going on in 
Tallahassee.”
Lauren Poe
City Commissioner
The last free event is this SaturdayThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
In the news this week: pop stars, duck hunters and 
FratPACs — and, no, that’s not a new form of booze. Here’s 
your weekly Friday 
Darts & Laurels
Let’s start off with the FratPAC. Never heard of it? It’s one of many political action committees vying for atten-tion from Congress — and it represents pretty much all 
of Greek life. Which is cool — like anyone else, Greeks 
have interests and are entitled to have those interests 
represented in government. 
What’s not so nice is news that FratPAC is going to lobby 
for rape accusations to be investigated by law enforcement 
ﬁ  rst, rather than university administrations. 
Here’s the thing — this isn’t going to end sexual assault. At 
most, it’s going to help Greek houses cover their asses in the 
event of one, which will prevent campus-wide shutdowns of 
whole Greek systems or keeping administrators from doling 
out punishments before a criminal case is complete. 
Let’s remember, FratPAC represents its own interests, 
which are essentially twofold: keeping members eligible — 
enrolled in school — and keeping the Natty ﬂ  owing. FratPAC 
and its constituents are certainly allowed to lobby and ﬁ  ght 
for their interests, but institutions that are often responsible for a problem probably shouldn’t be coming up with solutions to it. But we don’t have enough room here to accurately artic-
ulate our feelings right now — expect a more complete view 
in Monday’s editorial. Anyway, here’s a DART to FratPAC.
Something even more questionable happened this week 
at a prayer breakfast in Vero Beach. Phil Robertson, bearded 
patriarch of “Duck Dynasty” fame, was in attendance. During 
the meeting, he went off on a bizarre, graphic hypothetical tangent: What if people broke into an atheist’s house? Tied him up? Raped and murdered his family? Decapitated his wife and cut off his, uh, favorite duck caller? 
Robertson’s point: He’s frustrated by the idea that right 
and wrong can be determined by human beings instead of God. He’s not endorsing the rape and murder of atheists; it was just a tasteless attempt at rhetoric. We’re going to give 
Robertson a DART for this one, but we hope he learns how 
to express his frustrations more carefully in the future.
Also, Zayn left One Direction. If you’re utterly ﬂ  abbergast-
ed in any way, don’t bother with it — continue as you were. The singer parted ways with the ﬂ  agship boy band of the 
2010s because of “stress,” an industry term for “I was caught 
with my arm around a woman who isn’t my ﬁ  ancee, my every move is recorded and analyzed, and I just want to go home.” Seriously, we feel pretty bad for poor Zayn. 
We don’t feel bad for the fans who are treating this like the 
end of all things. Yeah, you’re deﬁ  nitely allowed to be upset and to vent those frustrations — but asking for time off work usually reserved in case a relative dies? That’s crossing a line. LAUREL to Zayn for doing what’s best for him; DART to 
people who took this way too seriously.Al Gore could challenge Hillary for presidency
Hillary Clinton has yet to formally launch her bid 
for the White House, but with the email scandal setting her down a rocky road, Democrats may start to reconsider support for the former secre-tary of state. Yes, Clinton remains the favorite to 
win the Democratic nomination next year, and she has a better-than-even chance at the White House. Still, Demo-crats may want other options. Sure, Vice President Biden is toying with the idea of running for a third time, but few believe Biden has a legitimate shot at the White House. The one Democrat whose name is starting to appear in recent stories is that of former Vice President Al Gore.
Before you roll your eyes and sigh — that’s a reference 
to Gore’s 2000 debate performance for all you kiddos — 
Gore doesn’t sound like a half-bad idea. While Gore was 
roundly — and rightfully — criticized for his stoicism and superiority complex when he ran against former President George W. Bush in 2000, much has changed in the last 15 years. Always an environmentalist, Gore went on tour, discussing the dangers of climate change, winning an Academy Award for the documentary “An Inconvenient Truth” and sharing the Nobel Peace Prize.
Not half bad for a guy who lost the 2000 presidential 
election because of a Supreme Court decision. While the right lambasted Gore over his work on climate change, the data indicates Gore was largely right. Anytime it rains in Miami Beach, the roads ﬂ  ood, something that scientists are now attributing to climate change. In recent weeks, scientists at NASA believe the severe drought in Califor-nia — likely caused by climate change — has left the state with enough groundwater to last just one more year.
Regardless of whether certain conservatives want to 
acknowledge the existence of climate change, the next president must tackle what the Pentagon considers a na-tional security threat that could foster more terrorism. Gore may not win the presidency and he may not over-come Clinton to win the nomination, but someone with an understanding of climate change and the urgency to act is a must for the next president. If Clinton wins, Gore could at least push her to take action sooner than later by challenging her in the debates and on the campaign trail.
Democrats may be cautious us-
ing retreads like Gore or Clinton to maintain the White House in 2016, 
but there are few other Democrats 
ready, willing and able to run and win. A Bill Clinton or Barack Obama is not going to miraculously appear in the coming months and lead Dem-ocrats to a third consecutive term. 
Turning to a former presidential candidate can be a scary prospect — hello, Mitt Romney — but a Gore candidacy may not be as completely crazy as it sounds. While the 
Republicans try to outﬂ  ank each other on the right, mil-
lions of rational Americans want a sensible leader who has the wherewithal to tackle the challenges facing our country.
A proven leader is exactly what the country needs, 
and the Democrats need multiple proven leaders in the primary to demonstrate why voters should give them an-other term in the White House. It’s a rarity that the in-cumbent party holds the presidency following a two-term 
president, but 2016 could prove to be an exception. Since 
1992, Democrats have only lost the popular vote once, and the electoral map remains favorable.
Whether it’s Gore, Clinton or someone else, Democrats 
need a quality primary that forces candidates to address their solutions to the country’s problems, and prove that despite the right’s rabid hatred of President Obama, Dem-ocrats put the U.S. on stable ground following the Great Recession. Gore may seem like a hairbrained scheme, but 
following a recent upbeat New York Times piece, an article 
in the Atlantic and Vox’s Ezra Klein publishing a piece urg-ing Gore to run, the support is starting to mount.
Allies of Gore say he’s not running, but when was the 
last time you trusted a politician? Al Gore can and should 
run for the presidency of the U.S.
Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political campaign-
ing graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org“Here’s the thing — this isn’t 
going to end sexual assault. 
At most, it’s going to help 
Greek houses cover their 
asses in the event of one.”FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
It’s unsettling to wake up to a red Rorschach 
test on your sheets. Why am I covered in blood? Who did I stab last night? Why do I want to cry and eat macaroni and cheese?
Congrats, you’re not pregnant! Enjoy 
your next few days of menstruation, something that is still somehow not understood by a major-ity of people.
Society seems to have developed this huge 
taboo about monthly periods. They’re gross; I don’t want to hear about them; call me in a few days when you’re done. I once was hooking up with a guy who had a pretty standard response to my monthly gift.
He texted me one night that, “We should f**k,” to which 
I responded, “Negative to that. I’m on my period. #notpreg-nant.” I don’t really like period sex, so I wasn’t about it. 
His response was, “That sounds disgusting and awful.”Dude. I literally have blood gushing out of my vagina, 
and you want to tell me what’s disgusting and awful? Sorry that the womb, the foundation of all human life, is disgust-ing to you. Now go apologize to your mother for your nega-tive attitude.
He followed up a few days later to ask, “When will you 
no longer be out of commission?” “Out of commission” — kind of like a racehorse that you put down because of a broken leg.
Except there’s nothing wrong with someone having a 
period. In fact, it would be much more worrisome if I didn’t get my period. Assuming your cycle is normal, they can show you’re healthy and regular, and most importantly, not pregnant.
There is a whole stigma against menstruation. People 
who don’t have periods are grossed out by the concept of them, and people who do have periods feel uncomfortable talking about it — seriously, raise your hand if you’ve felt awkward buying tampons.
It doesn’t help that we, as a society, perpetuate these 
ridiculous myths about periods and shame people for a nor-mal bodily function.
I have a friend who told me that a guy once asked, “Are 
you sure you can go into the ocean, because of, ya know, sharks?”
That’s not how it works. To dispel a few myths: Yes, you 
can go swimming on your period; yes, you can get pregnant on your period; no, we don’t know exactly when it will end — seriously, do you think we have an app for this?
Health education has really failed us all if 
you’re still in your 20s and don’t know the basic facts about menstruation.
Now, I don’t have enough space to teach you 
everything you should know. But if you have a uterus, are hooking up with someone with a uterus, interact with people with uteri — read: everyone — do a quick Internet search to edu-cate yourself, even if you just look up the basic biological facts.
Here are some starters: Periods come about every four 
weeks, although this can vary from person to person. The 
length also varies from person to person, although you can 
typically expect it to last somewhere about three to seven days.
Some people get really bad cramps. Some people crave 
salty or sweet food. Some people get more emotional. If you’re catching a theme here, it’s that everybody reacts dif-ferently, and there’s no one-size-ﬁ  ts-all rule for menstrua-tion.
On that same note, everybody has a different opinion 
on period sex, too. If you don’t want to have sex for a few days, that’s cool, take a break — just be sure it’s because you don’t want to, not because you’re afraid of grossing out your partner. If you’re worried about it being messy, lay down a towel or use it as an excuse to hook up in the shower.
The bottom line is I’m tired of feeling awkward for talk-
ing about my period. I don’t want it to be an uncomfortable thing — for myself or anyone — to say, “Heads up, I’m on 
my period.”
If you’re mature enough to be having sex, you need to 
be mature enough to handle everything that comes with it 
— that weird wet spot in the bed post-coitus, the awkward “farting” noise your skin makes when it rubs together, and yes, menstruation.
Don’t be grossed out or made uncomfortable by periods. 
They’re natural, healthy and nothing to be embarrassed about. 
It’s OK to talk about them, it’s OK to buy tampons, it’s 
OK to bone during Shark Week. And that’s the truth, pe-riod.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.It's time for some menstruation maturationColumn
I picked up my ﬁ  rst cigarette between my senior year of high school and my freshman year of college. Despite the fact my two best friends had already been smoking for a solid year at that point, I’d always hesitated. After all, it’d been drilled into my head pretty thoroughly that cigarettes provide zero bene-
ﬁ  ts. They’re addictive. They’re expensive. They don’t provide the intoxicating effects of alcohol or other popular drugs of choice. And, of course, they exponentially increase one’s chances of contracting cancer. My ﬁ  rst cigarette was a spur-of-the-moment “Why not?” decision, not one built on excitement or anticipation. I threw up immediately after ﬁ  nishing it.
Three years later, cigarettes have be-
come, for better or worse, a critical part of my identity. If you’ve met me at a party, 
or caught me taking a much-needed break 
from putting off studying, odds are you’ve seen me with a cigarette in my hand. The reactions to my habit from people around me have ranged from “Ayo Fogman, can I grip a smoke?” to “You’re a disgusting idiot, and I refuse to be associated with some-one so stupid that they would consciously choose to smoke in light of the plethora of scientiﬁ  c studies and 
factual evidence that show cigarettes are bad for you.” I’ll let you 
guess which one I prefer.
It is particularly difﬁ  cult to be a college student who smokes 
at UF, where the administration (intelligently) made the campus a tobacco-free zone in 2010.
So, given the fact it is banned on campus, widely and right-
fully stigmatized by a signiﬁ  cant portion of the UF student popu-lace and a drain on both my health and my wallet, it would be reasonable to ask: Why do I do it? The answer, to put it simply, 
is social constructs.
To smoke and be a college student in 2015 is an inherently 
contradictory proposition. Given you were smart enough to get 
accepted to a university in the ﬁ  rst place, you ought to be smart enough to know not to pick up the damn things, right? Sure, if you’re a well-adjusted person. As The Hufﬁ  ngton Post stated 
plainly in a Feb. 25 article, “Smokers are more likely to suffer 
from anxiety and depression.” The article notes a recent British study found more than 18 percent of smokers over the age of 40 reported having anxiety and depression, as opposed to 10 percent of non-smokers and 11.3 percent of ex-smokers.
I’ve never been coy about my status as an angst-ridden young 
man. It is only appropriate then that in smoking cigarettes, you tend to meet kindred spirits.
Over the years, the well-ingrained ritual of stepping outside 
of a party or building to smoke, bum or share a cigarette has led me to meet more people and make more friends than the casual observer would expect. 
I met the woman who is now my signiﬁ  cant other when she 
followed me after I stepped outside a party to have a smoke. The man who is now my best friend and I bonded when we would be the only two to leave a mutual friend’s house to chat over cancer sticks. My roommate, who was only a passing acquain-tance in high school, has become one of my good friends after 
many a stoge sesh. Each and every single one of them is a little 
bit twisted.
Although the U.S. has done a tremendous job of combating 
cigarette consumption, it is almost universally accepted that the U.S. has dropped the ball when it comes to how it treats and corrects issues pertaining to mental health. While I won’t speak for my friends, I will absolutely draw a connection between my mental health and cigarette usage.
Addressing the last of a dying breed — meaning young smok-
ers — means addressing how colleges and the nation at large provide aid to those suffering from anxiety and depression. UF faculty can remind students about its status as a tobacco-free campus all they want, but I can guarantee Smoker’s Row — what I’ve come to call the area of campus adjacent to Midtown — will still be there tomorrow.
There was a solid month in 2014 where I had effectively kicked 
the habit. I’m looking forward to the day I do it permanently.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column ap-
pears on Fridays.Smoking cigarettes is 
much harder than it looksColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org
According to a CNN article published last week, billionaire Donald Trump has launched a presidential explor-atory committee for the 2016 election. Although this is the ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial step 
Trump has taken in being considered as a po-tential presidential candidate, we cannot be too alarmed at his announcement.
Trump has hinted at seriously running for 
president more than once over the years, so this isn’t exactly shocking news. In 1999, he launched a similar exploratory committee but didn’t pursue anything further within that election year. More recently, Trump seriously considered joining the Repub-
lican Party as a presidential candidate in 2012, but he 
eventually backed out and supported former Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, for the remainder of the elec-tion.
Trump’s continuous interference during presidential 
elections can allow us to analyze his true motives behind his so-called interest in becoming the nation’s ultimate leader.
It’s curious enough that this year his usual presidential-
interest declaration was made after his NBC reality show “Celebrity Apprentice” was renewed for a 15th season. He further explained that even though NBC has offered renewal, he has not signed any paperwork pertaining to the show in case he decides to back out for the season.
Why? Maybe to prove how serious he is for the up-
and-coming presidential election? No, I highly doubt it. I think Trump repeatedly portrays a so-called interest in presidential elections for self-promotion and business 
purposes.
I am all for self-branding. Creating an image for one-self has its perks, like success and attention, 
but you have to uphold that image. One slip and the brand you created for yourself is gone. 
So I understand Trump’s motive for all the 
self-promotion. And from a business perspec-
tive, it’s pretty clever. What better way to get 
people to notice you than by running for the most prestigious position this country has to offer? 
Clever. I mean, it’s just business, right? He 
has to advertise himself and his career in order 
to make a proﬁ  t, which is obvious. But I do not think claiming a position as a possible presidential candidate is the way to do it.
His motives give him a superﬁ  cial persona, which is 
not an image one would want when running for president of the U.S. 
If he is serious about his candidacy, he should stray 
away from TV and actually create a respectable platform. He should prioritize issues and develop well-defended arguments in order to gain the hearts of voters, not co-incidentally announce the renewal of a hit TV show and an interest in a presidential nomination at the same time.
Trump also needs to consider his contenders. Yes, he 
is a billionaire, but what has he done in the political as-pect of things? 
Trump needs to ﬁ  gure out if he is serious about run-
ning for president or if this is just a business strategy. If so, he and his team need to consider new public relations tactics because his continuous cry for president is getting out of hand and further proves he does not belong in politics — especially as the nation’s leader.  
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Trump cried president again, and it's getting oldColumn
Grace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.org“While I won’t speak for my friends, 
I will absolutely draw a connection 
between my mental health and 
cigarette usage.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
Puppy Love
Gabrielle Love, a 19-year-old UF marine sciences sophomore, receives kisses from puppy LeBron 
Swanson on Thursday on the Plaza of the Americas. Alpha Epsilon Delta hosted a stress-relief event with dogs to help students studying for upcoming midterms. “I miss my dog, ” Love said.
A concrete canoe?
Concrete by definition consists of 
water, cement, 
and an aggregate.Aggregates are most commonly 
gravel made from 
limestone or granite.
In this case, the aggregate is made from bits of recycled 
glass so small (.25mm) that they resemble a powder.
With an approximate combined weight of 800 pounds, 
it will be displacing some 95 gallons of water, 
enough to fill 2 bathtubs and then some.It weighs approximately 
155 pounds.A fiberglass canoe of similar length 
would weigh roughly 1/2 as much.This mixture is then layered 
with a mesh-like fabric. 
This reinforces the 
concrete, much like rebar.CONCRETE
CONCRETE
CONCRETEMESH
MESH
Fully loaded, it will take 4 passengers.The team’s finished canoe is 22 feet long.By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Contributing Writer
The team members threw their 
hands into a circle, and Tyler 
Mokris yelled, “Gators on three!”
The UF Concrete Canoe team 
cheered at the American Society 
of Civil Engineers’ southeast-
ern conference then raced their 22-foot-long canoe through the water.
The team placed 
first at the southeast regional competi-tion this weekend, which qualified 
them to compete 
at the national level for the 11th 
time. The national competition will be at Clemson University on June 20 through June 22.
“We’re excited to represent 
the school this summer,” said Danielle Kennedy, the team’s head captain.
The team is judged on how 
they design and build their canoe, 
with equal weight on a design pa-
per, oral presentation, the canoe’s craftsmanship and how quickly they complete endurance compe-titions.
“I think the canoe competi-
tion is more time-intensive than class,” said Mokris, the team’s construction and paddling cap-tain and a UF civil engineering senior.
Kennedy, 22, said the team 
has been preparing for the com-petition since September 2014.  In December, they built a prac-
tice canoe to test out their design and let it harden for four weeks. 
Then, they sanded and painted it, 
she said. The team repeated the 
process in January for their com-petition canoe and decorated it to look like the Everglades.
Kennedy, a UF civil engineer-
ing senior, said the canoes are able to float despite being made 
of concrete. Where-as traditional con-crete is mixed with sand and gravel, the club’s canoes are made from concrete 
and minuscule pieces of recycled 
glass, similar to what’s used in 
barges.
The UF team reinforces the 
canoes’ three layers of concrete 
with a mesh-like fabric, but Ken-
nedy said they are fragile enough 
to break.
“It gets a little too intense, and 
you take a piece out,” she said.
Although Kennedy and Mokris 
won’t be making concrete canoes after they graduate, they said the 
competition has taught them how to execute a project from start to finish.
“You get to actually use the 
stuff you learn in a practical situ-ation,” Mokris, 23, said.
Kennedy said she likes get-
ting to know her teammates, who double as her classmates.
“You just spend a lot of time 
together,” she said, “so you have to be friends.”UF engineering team’s 
concrete canoe wins regional competition
CAMPUS
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
afisher@alligator.org
UF Online’s new director has gov-
ernmental roots.
Evangeline Cummings, a 1997 UF 
alumna, will take on the title of assis-
tant provost and director of UF Online 
beginning July 1. She was previously 
a director with the U.S. Environmen-tal Protection Agency.
Cummings has worked for the 
EPA since 1999 and served as the director of the strategic management division in Washington, D.C., since 2008, according to UF’s News Center.
UF Online offers 15 bachelor’s de-
grees fully online and currently has more than 1,000 students enrolled. 
Andy McCollough, the UF associ-
ate provost for teaching and technol-ogy, has been overseeing UF Online since the previous director, Betty Phil-lips, resigned three months into the position on March 1, 2014.
The search committee had two 
finalists, and McCollough said mem-bers thought Cummings had the skills to quickly ramp up the program.
McCollough said Cummings is a 
strategic thinker with extensive expe-rience working as a special assistant to the agency’s chief information of-ficer.
“Her career with the government 
agency progressed from a beginning position to substantial responsibility,” McCollough said.
Cummings’ salary hasn’t been 
determined yet, according to UF of-ficials.
The UF Online staff will be around 
to help Cummings adjust to her new position, McCollough said, but he 
thinks she will show great leadership 
in the program.
“I think she will help UF Online 
continue toward a trajectory of suc-cess,” he said.UF alumna selected as 
new UF Online directorCAMPUS
Alligator StaffFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
HE DISCUSSED THE DOWNSIDES OF A 
SEDENTARY LIFESTYLE.
By Zee Krstic
Alligator Contributing Writer
Staying healthy in a world of nine-hour workdays and con-
ﬁ  ned cubicles is as easy as ﬁ  xing your hair or chewing gum 
— as long as you break free from a stationary, desk-bound life-style, said one researcher.
Dr. James Levine, an endocrinology researcher and profes-
sor at a Mayo Clinic in Arizona who focuses on obesity studies, 
shared his thoughts on sedentariness and the future of obesity 
in his lecture, “Is Your Chair Trying to Kill You?” on Thursday.
Levine presented this and other ﬁ  ndings on sedentary living 
as part of the 30th annual D.K. Stanley Lecture Series in front 
of a full audience of students and faculty in the Florida Gym.
He said although exercising has declined over the past 200 
years, average food intake has remained steady.
“For 75 percent of Americans, exercise burns zero calories 
because they don’t do it,” Levine said.
Levine said the gym is great for people who can ﬁ  t in time 
to work out at the end of the day, but not for regular, cubicle-
based jobs. He suggested setting up walking meetings, which 
he said tend to be shorter and can burn an extra 150 calories.
He explained a study that showed working individuals 
who remained active during the day, even with short bursts of 
movement, were able to keep weight off.
Levine calls a sedentary lifestyle the chairman’s curse, and it 
is linked to several issues such as diabetes, cancer, heart attacks and spinal injuries. It is also linked to an individual’s creativity, 
dynamic personality, mood and happiness.
“The more you sit, the unhappier you are,” he said. “You’re 
not going to want to sit in a cubicle all day and die.”
Jenny Prasad, an 18-year-old UF anthropology freshman, 
said she was inspired by the lecture because she has always had a goal of healthy living and good nutrition. She said she 
was happy to hear alternative ways to stay healthy as a busy 
college student. She also said she wants a standing desk so she 
can be more active while studying.
“You can be active even if you’re not in the gym and doing 
your daily routine,” she said. “That’s most important.”
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Christy Pina / Alligator
Crushed
A fallen tree rests on top of a car at the corner of Northwest 18th Street and Northwest Third Avenue on Thurs-
day. Three vehicles were damaged by the tree.
Researcher warns 
against ‘chairman’s curse’ during talk
By Ralphy Lopez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s zombies will be handing their weapons over to 
children battling cancer this weekend.
For its ﬁ  fth anniversary, the Gators Humans vs. Zom-
bies club is including children in its spring 
game, which lasts from Saturday through 
April 3.
The group is pairing with the Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals for the second time as part of a program called Extra Life, which 
fundraises through 24 hours of an activity chosen by the sponsoring organization.
“In our case we are playing Humans vs. Zombies but 
for 24 hours a day for 7 days, so really 168 hours of fund-raising,” Alex Pinchin, the club’s president and a UF digi-
tal arts and sciences junior, wrote in an email.
This is the ﬁ  rst semester the club has an ofﬁ  cial bud-get from Student Government. Hannah Gamache, the vice president of Gators Humans vs. Zombies, wrote in 
an email that the funding has been helpful for creating a more immersive game.
The opening ceremony for this semester’s game will 
involve several families within the Children’s Miracle Net-
work. Pinchin, 21, said there will be a small 
mission for the kids.
Gamache, a UF English senior, said one 
of the characters is a biomedical ofﬁ  cer who will ask the kids and players to ex-
plore the North Lawn and collect samples 
for his research. The kids will use socks to stun the zom-
bies and then take their Nerf guns.
“We want this mission to focus on creating a fun and 
exciting experience for the kids,” Gamache, 22, said.
Participation is free and only requires attending a meet-
ing to review the rules. Nerf guns are not provided, and 
the game will last 24/7 across campus all week.Humans/Zombies to fundraise for kids
CAMPUS“You’re not going to want to sit in a cubicle all day 
and die.”
James Levine
endocrinology researcherFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSEBike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    4-1-15-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Lane sofa recliner L-shaped with chaise. 
Chocolate, perfect top-end furniture. Great size for apt. $600 obo. 352-463-6609    4-2-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
   Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOENow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14
Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl basic English and math to help her trans-fer to the US education system. Experience with children and reference required. ~20hr/wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    4-2-15-8-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14Experienced greenhouse person wanted.All phases to ready plant for garden.Full time; no smokers, drug free.Send resume to catcrone@aol.com.    3-31-3-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    3-27-1-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The twAlligator.
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. Www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    3-27-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Designated drivers are the greatest
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15DISH TV Packages for $19.99/mo & $14.95/
mo for Internet + $25 Visa Gift Card (with 
activation). Call NOW and Save: 844-560-
2654. Conditions apply.    3-27-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Connect instantly with sexy local singles! 
No paid operators, just real people like you. Try it FREE. 18+ Only. Call now: 1-800-931-6473    3-27-1-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/30 - 4/3 from 5-7 p.m. each day.   Verbal sessions are M & T; Math sessions are W & R.  Go to the teachingcenter.ufl.edu and click “Study Skills” and “Workshops” to register and learn the location.      3-31-6-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. twCall 373-FIND.US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver for Stevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    3-27-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    3-27-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-4006    3-27-1-15
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 19 Connections 21 EntertainmentFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Lauren Haeger and the UF 
softball team hit the road to face Mississippi State this weekend. Read the story on page 15.UF track and field opens play at Texas Relays
For full results, go to alligator.org/sports.THE JUNIOR LED UF IN 
SCORING BEFORE INJURING 
HIS ANKLE AGAINST 
KENTUCKY. 
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
After arguably his toughest season 
as a Gator, Michael Frazier is leaving 
Florida.
The junior guard, known for his pro-
lific three-point shooting, will forgo his 
senior season at UF and declare for the 
2015 NBA draft, as first reported by Dar-ren Heitner of Heitner Legal.
Frazier departs as one of Florida’s 
most accurate three-point shooters in program history. 
In his freshman season, the 6-foot-
4, 194-pound Tampa native shot 46.8 percent from downtown and played in 
36 games as the Gators finished their 
season with an 79-59 loss to Michigan in the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tourna-ment. 
The following season brought new 
heights for Frazier. 
He set a UF record with 118 three-
pointers in his sophomore season, and he currently holds the record for 
three-pointers in a game between two 
Southeastern Conference teams after he drained 11 from long-range in Florida’s 72-46 handling of South Carolina on March 4, 2014.
But the 2014-2015 season was con-
sidered a step back for Frazier after a strong sophomore campaign.
The departure of seniors Scottie Wil-
bekin, Patric Young, Casey Prather and Will Yeguete forced much of the offen-sive workload on Frazier’s sharpshoot-ing shoulders. 
Frazier led the Gators in scoring with 
13.2 points per game until a Feb. 7 high ankle sprain suffered against Kentucky sidelined him for a full month. 
He returned for Florida’s first re-
match with the Wildcats on March 7 but was nearly ineffective as Frazier went just 2-of-16 combined in his final three games. 
The Gators finished the season with a losing record for the first time since 1997-98, coach Billy Donovan’s second season at the helm of the program. 
Frazier will reportedly sign with 
Andy Miller and his ASM Sports agency on Friday, a source confirmed to Only-
Gators.com.Now, the Gators must wait to hear 
from redshirt junior Dorian Finney-
Smith and sophomore Chris Walker, who both said following the 64-49 SEC Tournament defeat to Kentucky that they had not decided to return or de-
clare for the NBA draft.
NCAA Swimming and Diving update
After Day 1 of the NCAA Men's Swimming and Diving Championships, the 
No. 4 Gators are in third place. Freshman Caeleb Dressel won the 50-yard freestyle in a school-record 18.67 seconds, becoming the first UF athlete to win the event at the NCAA Championships.Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Michael Frazier dribbles the ball during Florida's 57-56 win against Arkan-
sas on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center.
Michael Frazier leaving for NBA Draft
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
After four games on the road, the Gators baseball 
team will have to wait one more day before playing its 
first game at McKethan Stadium in more than a week.
Thursday’s series opener between No. 4 Florida (21-
5, 3-3 Southeastern Conference) and Alabama (13-10, 
3-3 SEC) was postponed due to inclement weather.
As a result of the delay, the two teams will play a 
doubleheader today, with the first game starting at 3 p.m.
The second game of the series will begin 40 minutes 
after the conclusion of the opener.
Aaron Rhodes is still slated to start on the mound 
in the first game for the Gators, while Logan Shore will start the second game.
The start will be Rhodes’ first of the year. He has 
made seven appearances this season, giving up seven to-tal runs (six earned) in 13.1 innings. Four of those seven runs came in Florida’s 7-2 loss to Miami on Feb. 21.
Shore, the 2014 National Freshman of the Year, has 
struggled in his last two outings.
The sophomore right-handed pitcher from Coon Rap-
ids, Minnesota, has suffered back-to-back losses for the second time in his collegiate career.
After starting the season with 19.2 consecutive in-
nings without allowing a runner to cross home plate, Shore gave up five runs in six innings of work in Flori-da’s 6-3 loss to Tennessee on March 13.
One week later in UF’s 4-1 series-opening loss to Ole 
Miss, Shore gave up two more runs in 3.2 innings.
His ERA is now 2.17.“He’s going through a tough time,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said Wednesday. “He’s just got to battle through it, and he will.”Florida baseball 
opener against 'Bama postponedBASEBALL
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
Two Gator gymnasts were given top 
Southeastern Conference honors, the 
league office announced Thursday.
Senior Kytra Hunter was named SEC 
Gymnast of the Year, becoming the third Gator to win the award and first since Chrissy Van Fleet in 2000.
Freshman Kennedy Baker was also 
named co-SEC Freshman of the Year along with Arkansas’ Paige Zaziski. Baker is the eighth Gator 
to win the award and fifth 
since 2010.
Hunter is the top all-around gymnast in 
the nation with a 39.625 regional qualify-ing score and is the only gymnast ranked in the top-25 in all five events (No. 1 all-
around, No. 2 in floor and vault, tied for No. 17 on bars and tied for No. 22 on beam).
She has also been the 
SEC Gymnast of the Week 
four times this season.
Baker was named SEC Freshman of the Week four times this season and ranks eighth nationally with a 9.935 RQS on 
floor.
Both were also named to the All-SEC 
team along with fellow Gators Bridget 
Sloan, Alex McMurtry, Bridgette Caquatto 
and Claire Boyce. 
The All-SEC team is determined by per-
formance in the SEC Championships.Florida gymnasts rack up Southeastern Conference awards“(Shore's) going through a tough time. He’s just got to 
battle through it, and he will.”
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach
GYMNASTICSFRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Junior Gordon Watson prepares to serve during Florida’s 4-1 win against 
Mississippi State on March 13 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Senior Lauren Haeger pitches during Florida’s 7-1 win against Kansas on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
 
The No. 20 Gators saw their three-
game winning streak end at the hands of 
No. 13 Ole Miss, but UF is ready to leave that loss in the rear view mirror. 
Florida (9-6, 4-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) looks to get back on track against Auburn (14-7, 2-5 SEC) at 2 p.m. on Sat-urday in Auburn, Alabama.
The Gators have defeated the Tigers in 
three of their last four meetings, including a 4-0 victory last season in Gainesville. 
“I think every weekend it’s fun to be 
playing these matches in the SEC,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “Partially because we know it’s going to be a tough challenge. The more times we can put ourselves in those situations, hopefully the better we become.”
But the last time UF traveled to face 
the Tigers, the match ended with a vic-tory for Auburn.
“It’s going to be fun going back there,” 
Shelton said. “Their courts play very, very slow and we know that and we will be prepared for that and the speed of the court.”
This time last season, the Gators 
stepped on the gas pedal and won eight of their last 12 matches including match-es in the SEC and NCAA tournaments.
With six losses already this season, 
Florida knows they need to finish strong.
“It’s just another building block get-
ting to the SEC tournament,” junior cap-tain Gordon Watson said. “I’ve known their coach for a while and I’m sure he’s 
been preaching to them to keep (the win-
ning streak) rolling. But they’re going to be a tough team whether they win or lose, and we’ve just got to go there and give everything we got and come out with a W.”
For both teams, the season is winding 
down and each match is even more valu-able than ever.
“There’s still plenty of tennis to be 
played.” Shelton said. “For us, our goal is to get these guys firing on all cylinders.” Gators looking to get 
back to winning ways following Ole Miss lossBy Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
At first glance, Florida and Mississippi State 
may not have much in common.
But don’t tell that to UF coach Tim Walton.
No. 3 Florida (30-3, 3-3 Southeastern Con-
ference) travel to Starkville, Mississippi, to face off against Mississippi State (24-8, 4-5 SEC) this weekend, and Walton feels the two 
teams mirror each other.
“They must preach a lot of the 
same things that we do in regards to just getting on base,” Walton 
said. “Find a way to get to first base and that’s our goal and we’ll figure out 
how to second, third and home.
“I don’t know what their offensive approach 
is but by looking at their numbers, you can tell that they do praise the on base percentage part 
of the game.”
UF should expect a heavy 
dose of Mississippi State pitch-er Alexis Silkwood. 
Silkwood has appeared in 
25 games in the circle while making 17 starts.
She is tied for first in the 
SEC with 17 wins and ranks second in strikeouts with 140.
Silkwood tossed a no-hitter her last time out 
in the circle in Game 1 of a doubleheader against Southern Mississippi.
While Silkwood doesn’t have the same num-
ber of games and at-bats as Florida’s Lauren Haeger, both of them have a batting average of more than .330 and an on base percentage of 
more than .460.As teams, both Florida and Mississippi State 
have the same type of numbers at the plate.
Both rank fifth and sixth in the SEC in slug-
ging percentage, runs scored, runs batted in and 
sacrifice flies, while both of them are tied for third in the conference in total plate appearances 
with 1030.
The Bulldogs will look to apply pressure on 
the base paths and test the arms of Florida’s catchers. Mississippi State is second in the SEC 
in stolen bases with 65, but the 
Gators will look to junior catcher 
Aubree Munro, who is one of the 
best in the nation at nailing down runners trying to steal.
“I think overall they’re an ag-
gressive type team,” Walton said. “I think they like to steal bases, they embrace getting hit by 
pitches. They like to walk, they have a high on 
base percentage team.”     
After taking two out of three from Alabama 
last weekend, Walton and his team didn’t have much time to get geared up and ready to play the Bulldogs. 
After getting back to Gainesville early Tues-
day morning, Florida was only able to practice one time this week before heading to Starkville.
Walton wants the team to have the same line 
of thought heading into its third SEC series and minimize mistakes.
“Our mindset is going into Starkville is no 
different than Tuscaloosa,” Walton said. “The Gators have to control what the Gators can con-
trol and go out and play our style softball and we 
have good chance to win.
“If we play poorly, Mississippi State is gonna 
beat us.”UF preparing for aggressive 
battle against Mississippi State 
SOFTBALL
Walton
Game-time Information
Today: 6:30 p.m. (SEC Network+)
Saturday: 2 p.m. (SEC Network+)
Sunday: Noon (SEC Network+)“They’re going to be a tough team 
whether they win or lose, and 
we’ve just got to go there and give 
everything we got and come out 
with a W.”
Bryan Shelton
UF men’s tennis coach16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
Florida lacrosse can’t afford to 
lose another game. 
Its coaches and players know 
the Gators’ postseason chanc-
es are already hindered by the team’s four losses, so they’re tak-
ing each opponent on the remain-
ing schedule as seriously as any other.
No. 10 Florida (7-4, 1-0 Big 
East) travels to Phil-
adelphia, this week-
end to face Temple (8-1) on Saturday at 1 p.m.
The Gators 
opened conference play on Sun-day with a 19-10 victory over Vanderbilt and hope to carry that momentum with them into 
Philadelphia in their next Big East 
matchup, which is also Temple’s conference opener.
Although the Owls are 8-1 on 
the season, none of their oppo-nents are currently ranked in the top-20. 
Florida’s four losses, on the 
other hand, came at the hands of 
the teams ranked Nos. 1, 3, 6 and 
8. 
The Gators have faced their 
fair share of tough competition, 
but their remaining schedule eas-
es up — no other Big East team is ranked in the top-20.
But that doesn’t mean each 
game isn’t important. 
Florida still has areas to im-
prove upon, and it doesn’t want those weaknesses to cost the team another loss.
“This week, we’re probably 
gonna work on playing together as a team,” freshman Shayna Pir-reca said. 
“Playing defense as a team, 
our new offensive sets and just kind of meshing together and get-ting team chemistry.”
As Pirreca mentioned, the 
Gators’ defense needs a bit more improvement than the offense at this point. 
Florida is giving up 9.64 goals 
per game, on aver-age. 
That isn’t good 
enough to rank in the top 30 average 
goals against in the 
nation.
Florida’s offense, however, 
has scored 165 goals this year, the most among any team in the 
country. 
Senior Shannon Gilroy leads 
the way with 39 goals, tied for the most in the country, and 13 
assists. 
On Tuesday, Gilroy was 
named the Big East Midfielder of 
the Week, her fourth consecutive 
weekly conference recognition.
The Gators’ offense has also 
had help from sophomore Mol-
lie Stevens, who has 24 goals this year, as well as senior Nora Barry 
(16) and redshirt junior Nicole 
Graziano (15). 
With the Big East schedule all 
that remains in the regular sea-
son, the Gators will need to domi-
nate in order to solidify a place in the postseason. And they say they’re up to the 
task.
“I think we’re gonna take 
Temple head-on,” freshman Bella O’Connor said. 
“We can’t be scared, and I 
think we just have to take the win that we just had, yeah it’s a great win, but we need to start focusing on what we have in the future.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Freshman Shayna Pirreca looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 17-11 loss to North Carolina on Feb. 7 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Offense carrying UF lacrosse into match against Temple
LACROSSEDefense giving up 9.64 goals per gameFlorida’s stat leaders 
Shannon Gilroy: 39 goals, 13 assists, 39 draw controls
Mollie Stevens: 24 goals, two assists, 10 ground balls
Nora Barry:  16 goals, four assists, five ground balls 
Nicole Graziano:  15 goals, seven assists, 11 ground balls, 
27 draw controls, 10 caused turnovers