We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 132 MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
Gators, Glass shatter records at UF-
hosted Florida Relays
Florida athletes set 20 personal records and 
had 17 top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes, pg 13.
Club hockey team put on ice to raise funds
The group has made $745 so far with GoFundMe, pg 9.
Students shouldn’t be kept in dark for 
presidential searches
Read our editorial on a proposed Florida bill, pg 6.UF wakeboarding club shreds its way to 2nd place in Red Bull competition 
The competition was on Saturday, pg 8.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Cave Hunt
A diver descends into Devil’s Den before Scuba Monkey Dive Center’s third annual night underwater Easter egg hunt Satur-day. Hidden in the springs were more than 300 dyed eggs and three golden eggs. Prizes included a Tusa Nitrox dive computer, a Big Blue 750 lumens LED light and an Epcot DiveQuest trip. See more photos on page 3.
IT’S FOR THOSE AFFECTED BY 
OR DIAGNOSED WITH MS.
By Olivia Vega
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF student plans to use his new schol-arship to further his education and help others suffering with chronic illnesses. 
UF’s chapter of Hopping 4 A Cure, a 
nonproﬁ  t dedicated to raising money for multiple sclerosis research, awarded its ﬁ  rst $1,500 scholarship Friday night to Michael Brown, a UF senior with multiple sclerosis.
Brown, a nutritional science student, said he was speechless when he received the award. He was one of the top three scholarship applicants invited to attend the organization’s banquet.
“I think (H4AC) makes a difference in 
that it gives people that are affected by UF nonproﬁ  t awards 1st scholarshipCAMPUS
By Sophia Karnegis
Alligator Contributing Writer
A prominent biotechnology company is in-
vesting in UF’s biomedical engineering depart-
ment.
BioD is giving $1 million to the UF Depart-
ment of Biomedical Engineering to sponsor 
research in the ﬁ  eld of regenerative medicine, 
which involves the body’s natural regeneration of tissue.
“(Regenerative medicine) allows us to devel-
op systems that we can implant into the body that serve as an internal Band-Aid,” said Chris-
tine Schmidt, a professor and the chairwoman 
of the biomedical engineering department.
BioD’s motto, “Enhancing Life Through 
Birth,” embodies its mission to develop thera-pies for the body to naturally assist itself, as op-posed to relying on the current artiﬁ  cial tech-nologies in place, Schmidt said.
The majority of the endowment will fund a 
professorship, allowing a faculty member to fur-ther develop his or her research, Schmidt said.
Anthony Davis, a 21-year-old UF biomedical 
engineering junior, said conducting research is critical to the advancement of the ﬁ  eld.
“Without research, you wouldn’t be able to 
create new technology and new treatment for patients,” Davis said.
Davis said he hopes to put his degree to use 
after graduation by creating prosthetics, speciﬁ  -cally for veterans.
“(Biomedical engineering) has always been 
something I’ve been interested in because it helps so many people,” Davis said. “We can see an actual change as a result of the work we do.”Biotech ﬁ  rm 
to invest $1 million in UF
SEE BANQUET,  PAGE 4
By Melissa Mihm and      
Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writers
mmihm@alligator.org,                       
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a for-
mer UF athlete early Sunday after he 
reportedly punched a bouncer at a downtown night club. 
At about 1:20 a.m., Omar Das-ean Craddock, 23, was denied entry to the club after he caused a distur-bance, according to a police report.
After being denied entry, the for-
mer track and ﬁ  eld star argued with the bouncer before punching him in the face and head, according to the 
report. The ﬁ  ght left the bouncer 
with a two-inch cut on his forehead, which was bleeding heavily and re-quired stitches.Ofﬁ  cers ar-
rested Craddock on one charge 
of felony battery and one charge of resisting an ofﬁ  cer without 
violence. Police 
took him to the Alachua County 
Jail where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $17,500 bond.
Due to inconsistencies in reports 
from police that could not be clari-ﬁ  ed as of press time, it is unclear which night club Craddock was at. 
Craddock was in town for the 
UF-hosted Florida Relays this week-
end. He won the triple jump (16.70 
meters).
Craddock ended his UF career as 
one of the most decorated athletes in program history.
During his four years competing 
for UF from 2010 to 2013, the Gators won ﬁ  ve national titles. Craddock ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst in the triple jump at the NCAA Championships during three of those title runs.
He won the triple jump title in the 
2013 U.S. Outdoor Track and Field Championships after jumping 17.15 meters to top the 16-man ﬁ  eld.
 Police: Former UF track and ﬁ  eld star arrested for battery
Craddock
“W e can see an actual change as a result 
of the work we do.”
Anthony Davis
UF biomedical engineering juniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 132
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  64°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Encounter: Meet the God who 
changes everything
Adventist Campus Ministry 
will be hosting Encounter, a 
weeklong experience in the presence of God through mu-sic, worship and The Word. 
Come out as Marquis Johns, 
international speaker and pas-tor of Metro SDA Church in Washington, D.C., presents a powerful series of sermons that 
will usher you into the very 
presence of God. The event will take place today through Thursday. Today’s meeting 
is in Little Hall, Room 0121 
and Tuesday in Rinker Hall, Room 110 starting at 7 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday the event will be hosted at Pascal’s 
Coffeehouse starting at 7:30 
p.m.
Edible Book Contest
The George A. Smathers Libraries’ annual Edible Book Contest will take place Tuesday from 11 a.m. to noon in front of Library West. Prizes 
are awarded in five categories 
by a panel of judges, and the public is invited to vote for the People’s Choice Award. 
Winners will be announced 
at 12:15 p.m., and entrants do not have to be present to win. Free cake is served to every-one. UF students, faculty, staff 
and community members are 
invited to submit an entry. The only rules are that entries must be edible and somehow related 
to a book. For more informa-
tion, see uflib.ufl.edu/ebc.
Second annual Three-Minute 
Thesis competition
The UF Graduate School and 
the Graduate Student Advisory Council are excited to an-nounce the second annual UF 
Three-Minute Thesis Finals 
Competition, which will take place Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Ten UF finalists from across mul-
tiple disciplines will explain 
their research in three min-utes or fewer with one static PowerPoint slide. The judges 
will award a first- and second-
place prize, and attendees get to vote for their favorite in the People’s Choice Award. Go out and support graduate students. 
Light refreshments will be pro-vided.
Sacred Intimacy, Sacred 
Sexuality Join David Deida, UF alum-
nus,  best-selling author and renowned workshop leader, for a free, interactive presenta-
tion Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the 
Health Professions, Nursing and Pharmacy Building Auditorium. Deida’s insightful and provocative teachings con-
tinue to revolutionize the way 
that men and women grow spiritually and deepen their sexual experiences. For more 
information about David, go 
to deida.info or call 352 -374-4478.
Life as a Hotel: My musical 
journey from Gainesville to Los Angeles Experience the story of Marty Jourard, saxophone and key-
board player for The Motels, 
on Wednesday from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson History Museum. The Motels have released five albums during 
its tenure, including the sin-
gles “Only the Lonely” and “Suddenly Last Summer.” Hear Jourard’s account of 
his musical upbringing in 
Gainesville, where he was im-mersed in countless genres of music and star artists who performed shows at UF. These 
experiences provided inspira-
tion as The Motels journeyed to Los Angeles and eventually signed with Capitol Records in 
1979. Hear clips of some of the 
legendary music that he and The Motels have played dur-ing their career spanning from Gainesville to Los Angeles. 
Admission is $5. For more in-
formation, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmu-seum.org.
Curious about a degree from 
the College of Education?The College of Education will be hosting its annual 
Education Career Night Panel 
on Wednesday in the Reitz Union Auditorium from 4 to 5 p.m. The first 25 attendees will 
receive a tote bag or T-shirt. 
Doors open at 3:30 p.m. This event is open to all. The event consists of a panel of four impressive and engaging UF 
College of Education alumni 
who will talk about the dis-tinctly different career paths they each have followed, quite successfully, after earning their education degrees. This 
event offers a great opportu-
nity to network with educa-tion professionals from around Florida. For more information, 
visit education.ufl.edu/alum-
ni/career-night.
Senior Painting Exhibition
UF Senior Painters Jesenia Lopez and Lauren Moncalian 
will be having a duo show dis-
playing their work on Friday at Superfun! Gallery located at 2033 NW Sixth St. Jesenia Lopez's pieces depict her com-
plications with cultural iden-
tity as a Puerto Rican raised in the U.S. and Lauren Moncalian utilizes self portraiture to re-
flect her vision of her future. 
Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a 
troupe of real, rescued house cats that “purrform” acrobatic feats of agility: They roll on balls, balance on beams, ride skate-boards and more. The grand finale is the only all-cat band known to exist — Tuna and the Rock Cats. “Purrforming” at the Hippodrome State Theatre April 16 through 19. More informa-tion on the act can be found at circuscats.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
A DEVIL’S EGG HUNT
PHOTOS BY HANNAH MORSE
Alligator Staff
Divers took to the depths of Devil’s Den for an 
unconventional Easter egg hunt on Saturday.
A diver examines the cave wall with a ﬂ  ashlight in Devil’s Den during 
Scuba Monkey Dive Center’s underwater Easter egg hunt. Divers prepare to enter the water at Devil’s Den in Williston.
Divers wait on the water’s surface before the lights are turned off and the underwater Easter egg hunt begins.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Brown, left, a 22-year-old UF nutritional science senior who has multiple sclerosis, receives a cer-
tificate for a $1,500 scholarship from David Nassau, the 20-year-old co-founder of Hopping 4 A Cure, a nonprofit dedicated to raising money for MS research. 
multiple sclerosis hope,” Brown, 22, said.
Brown said he would likely use 
the scholarship money to apply to massage and physical therapy graduate programs. 
“I just want to give back to the 
community in a way that I may have a slight advantage in, since I have MS myself,” Brown said.
Brown is the founder of Chronic 
Gators, an organization advocating for students and families affected by chronic illnesses. He heard about the scholarship from H4AC founder David Nassau, a UF mar-keting junior.
Gainesville residents must be af-
fected by or diagnosed with MS to be eligible for the scholarship.
“Who we picked wasn’t neces-
sarily who had MS, but what they are doing as a result of being af-fected by it,” Nassau said.
Nassau and Gary Wexler started 
the organization in 2011 as high school students. Nassau said in a speech that it began when he and Wexler “suited up” — a joke stem-ming from his favorite show, “How I Met Your Mother” — and pre-tended to be on their high school’s varsity hopscotch team. 
Nassau, 20, said the joke led 
them to create the nonprofit, which would focus on MS for Nassau’s fa-ther, who was diagnosed in 2003.
Since the group’s inception four 
years ago, the organization has raised close to $30,000 through hopscotch tournaments and fund-raisers at restaurants and venues. The organization will host a benefit concert at The Jam on Thursday.
“Hopping 4 A Cure has a de-
fined market in the MS communi-ty, where we can be the voice for younger people who have or are affected by MS,” Nassau said.
Nassau said he hopes to hold a 
large-scale hopscotch tournament in Gainesville and expand to an-other university. A chapter of the group already expanded to Florida State University this Spring. 
“I just hope that people try to 
feed off of this energy,” Brown said. “Kind of like how I did with Chronic Gators, and just give back.”
BANQUET,  from pg 1The scholarship goes to people who have or are affected by MSTHE EVENT IS FREE.
By Ali Eckerle
Alligator Contributing Writer
As sexual assault controversies 
continue to make headlines, UF 
students can learn more about the positive side of sex Tuesday.
David Deida, a best-selling au-
thor on the relationship between sex and spirituality, will speak at UF’s Health Professions, Nursing and Pharmacy Auditorium at 7 p.m. The presentation is free and open to the public, and it is co-sponsored by UF’s College of Nursing.
Deida is a UF theoretical psy-chobiology graduate and is speak-
ing for free.
“I feel so much gratitude for the 
University of Florida,” he said. “I 
just feel like giving back.”
Deida plans to start his presenta-
tion with a brief talk but to open the floor to questions and let the dis-cussion unfold.
Mary Rockwood Lane, an as-
sociate professor at UF’s College of Nursing and co-founder of the Shands Arts in Medicine program, helped set up the presentation. She said she hopes to expose as many UF students as possible to their sexuality and its sacred role in their lives.She said the goal is to “create a 
forum where students can explore the myths of sexuality, the judg-ments around sexuality and the way they perceive their sexuality as something good or bad.”
Deida started at 
UF at 16. He said 
he spent seven years taking every 
course he could.
“It was like a playground of 
learning for me,” he said.
He ultimately earned an under-
graduate degree in theoretical psy-chobiology. 
He went on to study at the Uni-versity of California Medical School, 
San Diego, for an M.D. and Ph.D., 
but Deida said he realized he did not want to work with sick people. 
Just before he turned in his thesis to gradu-ate with his dual de-gree, Deida dropped out to become a full-time author.
Deida has written multiple 
books that have been published in more than 25 languages. He has taught at institutions in California, Boston and France.
He said he was always inter-
ested in learning about human con-sciousness, which strives to answer questions like, “Who are we?” He found that sexuality played a large role in finding the answers.
The goal for the presentation is 
to show participants they can have much deeper sexuality with deeper connections.
“Sexuality is so common today, 
like on TV and on the Internet,” he said. “I think almost everybody misses depth in sexuality.”
Besides having more profound 
connections, Deida said practicing a spiritual sexuality can help minds grow and become more clear.
“My main interest is in help-
ing people wake up to their own depths,” he said.
UF alumnus to give sex and spirituality talk on Tuesday
CAMPUS
By Frances Verjano
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new social app is ready to 
hit campus this week after a UF alumnus accidentally launched it on Valentine’s Day last year.
Elan Miller, a 2009 UF adver-
tising and anthropology graduate, co-founded Glimpse, a new social media app powered by Instagram. The Glimpse team is coming to 
the university this week in hopes 
of making students download the 
app, he said. 
The app is about starting a 
conversation with someone based 
on a common interest. Users can represent themselves with a series of five self-selected photos from 
Instagram. 
When his team tested a proto-
type in 2014, it went viral in the 
process and led to an early release. Now the team is looking to engage UF students by delivering surpris-es and hosting parties in Midtown this week.  
Miller recruited a team of stu-
dents to help him. Josh Firestone, a UF telecommunication and mar-keting freshman, said the team 
plans to be visible on Turlington 
Plaza beginning Tuesday and hand out flowers Wednesday and Thursday.  
“To show people the value of 
our app, instead of handing out fliers to students, we’re going to 
have people in Glimpse T-shirts 
handing out flowers with enve-lopes,” Firestone, 20, said. 
They will be stopping by fra-ternities and sororities with pro-motional materials Tuesday and Wednesday. The team can also be found at Shuck, a Midtown bar, on Friday.
“It’s all about getting a list of 
people who like you, and when 
you see that people like you, you 
tend to feel good about yourself,” he said. 
The 28-year-old said he created 
Glimpse after using other dating apps that depended solely on a person’s looks.
“A lot of millennials, especially 
college students, love to document 
the things that are important to 
them on Instagram,” he said. 
Miller said he doesn’t consider 
Glimpse a dating app because he doesn’t think college students date anymore.
“Our parents dated,” Miller 
said. “That’s just not the way we operate anymore.”Alumni promote app on campusBy Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
afisher@alligator.org
President Kent Fuchs asked UF’s 
Board of Trustees five questions to im-prove undergraduate education Friday before sharing his excitement over his ESPN Sports Center debut.
He opened discussion for questions 
he said he thinks are important to con-sider for the next five to 10 years, which included the number of students  who should attend UF; student demographic factors such as geographic, racial and ethnic diversity; and need-based and merit-based aid.  
Nearly every Association of Ameri-
can Universities school ranked higher than UF in geographic diversity, Fuchs said, as the undergraduate population is 93 percent Florida residents.
New trustee member Anita Zucker 
said her children chose an out-of-state university to meet more diverse people.
“I think we need to make sure we’re 
offering those opportunities to prepare (students) for the world they’ll be fac-ing,” she said.
Provost Joseph Glover said recruit-
ers are stationed across the East Coast to build the recruitment pool.
At the end of the meeting, the board 
unanimously passed a motion to rename the Heisman Tro-phy winner area of the Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. It will be 
called the Lee Chira Family Heisman Plaza in honor of the 
family’s recent sup-
port of the athletic program.
The Graduate Assistants United 
camped outside the meeting at 9 a.m. with pastries and coffees to welcome 
discussion regarding their extra fees. 
Trustee member Charles Edwards came by the table, said Liz Getman, a UF Latin American Studies fourth-year graduate student.
“It’s nice to be acknowledged,” Get-
man, 27, said. “It’s a starting point.” Fuchs: More UF diversityCAMPUS
“Our parents dated. That’s 
just not the way we operate 
anymore.”
Elan Miller
co-founder, GlimpseFuchs
MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 The Associated Press
State oyster industry threatened
Corey Lashley, left, and his father, Jimmy Lashley Sr., tong oysters in the shallow waters of Apalachicola Bay 
near Eastpoint, Florida. The local oyster industry in Apalachicola is under threat from water-flow issues, envi-ronmental concerns, health and safety regulations and economic realities.
THE FIRST EVENT IS TUESDAY ON 
THE PLAZA OF THE AMERICAS.
By Veronica Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Collegiate Recovery Community 
is working to foster healthy relationships 
with alcohol this month. 
The group is participating in Alcohol 
Awareness Month for the first time and most likely not the last, said Joan Scully, a licensed clinical social worker with the UF Counseling and Wellness Center. 
The group is made up of students in vari-
ous stages of recovery or who want to be supportive of those who are. 
“There are some students who decide 
that they are better off not drinking, and we provide support and guidance,” Scully said. 
Program assistants will be available for 
students to ask questions and reiterate the consequences of alcohol on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday through Thursday and April 16, 21 and 23. They will also be on the North Lawn on April 15. There will be social events throughout 
the month as peer support, including a mu-seum night Thursday and flag football on Flavet Field on April 16. Recovery anniver-
saries will be honored at the It Works! mile-
stone celebration April 23 in Peabody Hall. 
Recovery Nights, a weekly, alcohol-
free meeting, also brings students together 
Thursdays from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. in Pea-
body Hall. 
Alicia Baker, a GatorWell health promo-
tion specialist, said GatorWell does not cur-rently have plans for Alcohol Awareness Month.
GatorWell will instead continue its nor-
mal programs, which include offering indi-vidual meetings and helping with campus 
coalitions and committees that focus on al-
cohol and alcohol-related problems.
Baker said many students are under the 
impression that heavy drinking is a part of 
the true college experience. 
“In reality,” Baker said, “... misused al-
cohol can lead to alcohol poisoning, assault, 
personal injury, poor academic outcomes and other negative consequences.”Recovery community to host events for Alcohol Awareness
RESEARCH
By Justin Ross
Alligator Contributing Writer
People with low-household in-
comes are more likely to be smart-
phone dependent.
The finding is part of a report 
published on Wednesday by the 
Pew Research Center about smart-
phone use in the U.S. in 2015. The report defines dependent users as those who do not have Internet ac-cess at home and have few options for getting online.
According to the report, 13 percent of Americans with an an-nual household income of less than $30,000 per year are smart-
phone dependent. In comparison, 
just 1 percent of people who make $75,000 or more have the same level of dependency.
Ray Schaub, an analyst for UF’s 
Bureau of Economic and Business Research, said he was surprised when he learned of the statistic.
“At first glance, it is a bit sur-
prising,” he said. “I would think that more affluent individuals would use their smartphones for work.”
Mark Jamison, director of UF’s 
Public Utility Research Center, said 
people with lower incomes also 
switch homes more often, so a wireless connection with a smart-phone is more likely to suit their lifestyle.
“That’s their economic choice,” 
Jamison said. “They can go with a fixed-line broadband, or can have wireless, or go to public places like 
the library or Internet cafe. In their 
choice, they are saying that’s the best economic option (they) have.” Low-income more phone dependent
A TRIP TO PANAMA IS 
ENDING WEDNESDAY.
By Sophia Karnegis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gator alumni from a non-
profit corporation and a soft-
ware company are collaborat-
ing to bring legal education to 
the indigenous communities of Central America.
Village Rights International 
and CrowdLaw recently part-nered to fund a trip to Panama to educate those who live in rural areas on how to over-come legal challenges. The trip 
began March 25 and is ending 
Wednesday.
Henry Perlstein, a UF Law 
alumnus, founded CrowdLaw 
last year. The software com-
pany is designed to support fundraising campaigns for advocacy groups, making it a suitable platform for Village 
Rights International.
“Their mission is so in line 
with what we do,” Perlstein 
said. “It’s a special campaign 
to us.”
Village Rights Internation-
al’s founder Benjamin Good-
man, who is hosting the trip to Panama, is also a UF Law 
alumnus.
Perlstein said he is pleased 
to collaborate with Goodman and his com-
pany because it will give the people of 
Panama an 
opportunity they would not have had 
otherwise.
“This is a way for (Pana-
manians) to start to build their way out,” Perlstein said. “It’s giving them a base of life em-
powerment.”
In many developing coun-
tries, the level of funding is 
equal to the level of legal free-
dom, Perlstein said.
“Deep pockets are able 
to hold great sway in the le-
gal system,” Perlstein said. “Therefore, there is no more 
vital resource than access to 
justice.”
Claire McQueen, a 20-year-
old UF art history sophomore, 
is a member of the pre-law fra-
ternity Phi Alpha Delta.
She said she believes ev-
eryone deserves to experience legal justice, even though they 
don’t always have the oppor-
tunity.
“I think that every person 
is born with their own per-
sonal rights,” McQueen said. 
“When countries don’t offer that to people, they’re being cheated of their basic rights.”UF Law alumni bring 
legal education to rural Central America
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
One dog died and another is 
injured following the arrest of two 
men early Saturday after they re-portedly ignored commands from Gainesville Police.
At about 4:30 a.m., police re-
sponded to 2240 NW 42nd Ave. after someone called to report loud voices and arguing, Gainesville Po-lice spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Upon arrival, of-
ficers saw Robert B. Reed, 45, and Jeffery L. Laughlin, 40, hold-ing an injured man who police said was slipping in and out of conscious-ness.
Police asked to evaluate the man for injuries, according to a police report. Reed and Laughlin both re-fused, and officers eventually had to 
pull them away.
While officers were 
talking with Reed, Laughlin’s son’s dog got loose and attacked police dog Brady, ac-
cording to the report.
Officers tried to get the dog off 
Brady, but they were unsuccessful and ended up firing three shots, which hit the dog, Tobias said. 
The dog ran to a nearby wooded 
area and was found dead shortly after. Brady had a broken toe and had to have a bullet taken out of his foot. He is in a cast but doing well, Tobias said.
It was later determined the in-
jured man was attacked earlier in the night at a separate location.
Police arrested Laughlin on one charge of resisting an officer without violence and an unrelated charge of withholding child support. Officers took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $6,000 bond.
Officers arrested Reed on one 
charge of resisting an officer with-out violence. Police took him to the Alachua County Jail where he re-mained as of press time in lieu of a $5,000 bond.
Gainesville Police dog injured after fight with another dogPerlstein
CRIMEThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Column
Students shouldn’t 
be kept in dark for 
presidential searches
Giving any attention to the under-handed mischief and 
general plots that go on in state-level politics becomes exasperating really quickly. It’s difficult not to think of state legislatures as places where objectionable ideas go to get put in legally binding ink.
This has happened in Indiana and in Arkansas, where 
“religious freedom” laws were recently passed, plausibly 
seen as thinly veiled legalized discrimination against gay couples. Opposition  eventually convinced each state gov-
ernment to revise the bills, creating redundant affirmations 
of the First Amendment. 
We have another freakish bill waiting for us in Florida’s 
House and Senate, which would affect students attending every public university in the state.
The proposal is House Bill 223, which would exempt pres-
idential searches from the Sunshine Law. What that means: whenever a university needs a new president, every one of the search committee’s efforts could be made in secret. The 
public — students, parents, faculty — would have no access 
or voice in the decision. It’s an idea that’s obviously bad for anybody and everybody except for the interests of the very 
skeeviest of government officials.
HB 223 is not unprecedented; there have been previous 
examples of sketchiness among presidential search com-mittees. University of Michigan regents wore disguises to 
meetings with candidates, Louisiana State University Board members discussed selection business using private email 
accounts and a Nebraska representative proposed legislation 
similar to HB 223.
It seems some people have a compelling interest in keep-
ing students in the dark during the selection of university leaders.
The bill’s introduction comes at an interesting time, fol-
lowing the controversial selection of Florida State Univer-sity’s president, John Thrasher, last Fall. The selection was controversial because, well, Thrasher is an objectively odd 
choice for a university president. He has no experience in ac-
ademia, nor in college administration. He’s also enormously unpopular among FSU’s Student Body and its faculty; just 
look up his name on the Eggplant’s website.
His most compelling experience was political — that is 
to say, he was chosen for political reasons, and many be-lieve his selection was fixed from the beginning. You see, 
Thrasher was once Senate president and chairman of Gov. Rick Scott’s reelection campaign. Thrasher was chosen by 
FSU’s Board of Trustees who were, coincidentally, appointed 
by Scott in the first place. 
Florida’s Sunshine Law exposed the general sliminess of 
the search. Public disapproval and protest weren’t enough to change the board’s decision, but at least the public was aware of what was happening. We were lucky to get a presi-
dent as experienced and qualified as Kent Fuchs. But what if 
our situation were similar to FSU’s? If this bill were to pass, future generations won’t have the opportunity to protest or 
even be aware of the goings-on. They would be left com-
pletely in the dark while important seats are filled on the basis of political connections and patronage rather than ex-
perience and merit. The process should remain transparent.Rand Paul: the presidential candidate GOP needs
According to many news sources, Sen. Rand Paul will 
be announcing his candidacy for president Tuesday and will then engage in a five-state, five-day an-nouncement tour. Paul, who is the son of former Congressman Dr. Ron Paul, is an ophthalmologist-
turned-politician who was elected to the U.S. Senate in 2010 and has not been one to shy away from controversy. While many Republicans go with the flow of the Grand Old Party and often do not hesitate to inflate the deficit or ignore major problems, Paul has been one of the few shining stars of the party. He addresses the concerns of middle-class Americans, and his commitment to libertarian conservatism and advanc-ing liberty makes him stand out from the crowd.
The best way to judge a politician is through his or her 
record, and Paul has proven he embraces liberty over special interests. In my column last week, I mentioned how Repub-licans in the House of Representatives passed a budget that increased capital for the military through the Overseas Con-tingency Operations fund, a fund that is exempt from budget caps. This money is not paid for; it must be borrowed. To counteract this and provide relief from debt, Paul introduced an amendment that provides this funding only if other costs were cut to cover it. Paul explained that “Congress can and 
should pay for our top priorities and not use budgeting gim-
micks to evade spending limits.” While most Republicans turn a blind eye to the ever-growing deficit and debt, Paul is committed to balancing our budget and ending our reliance upon other countries, like China and Japan, to bail us out.
Some citizens feel as if the GOP does not care about mi-
norities, but Paul actually has a history of standing up for minorities. For example, Paul has introduced the REDEEM Act, which would allow for non-violent felons’ records to be 
expunged once they have completed prison time. There is 
no reason why a non-violent offender should have the rest of his or her life ruined as he or she checks off a box that he or she is a felon on a job application, nor should he or she lose the right to vote. Paul has said that “the War on Drugs has had a disproportional effect on minorities and our inner cities. Our current system is broken and has trapped tens of thousands of young men and women in a cycle of poverty and incarceration.” Additionally, civil forfeiture — a 
process where government can seize and sell assets without 
convicting, or even charging, someone with a crime — often leaves poorer minorities defenseless against overbearing authorities, who can disregard property rights and due process. Paul has introduced the FAIR Act, which gives better legal represen-
tation to victims of civil forfeiture and 
increases the government’s burden of proof.
In modern elections, it’s more im-
portant than ever to attract young and independent voters if you wish to be 
elected to federal office, and these groups like candidates who work with all ideologies. Recently, Paul has worked with Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, 
D-N.Y., to sponsor the CARERS Act, which would essentially 
make medical marijuana legal on a federal level. It does this by amending the Controlled Substances Act to allow states to set their own medical marijuana policies without fear of prosecution and by reclassifying marijuana as a less danger-ous drug. Currently, the Drug Enforcement Administration lists pot as a Schedule I drug, along with heroin and LSD.  A Fox News poll from May 2013 found 85 percent of Ameri-cans think that adults “should be allowed to use marijuana 
for medical purposes if a physician prescribes it.” Addition-
ally, a Pew Research poll found that 63 percent of Republican millennials said that recreational marijuana should be legal-ized, not just medical marijuana. The public support for this initiative has shifted over time, and Paul realizes that liberty over this matter should triumph.
Finally, I am looking forward to having a candidate who 
is willing to stand up against the National Security Agency, which has too much power to intrude on law-abiding citi-
zens’ electronic records. At the 2015 Conservative Political 
Action Conference, Paul asserted that “phone records of United States citizens are none of (the government’s) damn business.” It’s refreshing to have a candidate who realizes that we can fight terrorism while also not meddling in Ameri-cans’ privacy.
When looking for a candidate in the crowded 2016 race, 
consider Rand Paul, who champions liberty and understands that prosperity and freedom go hand in hand. 
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political science senior. 
His column appears on Mondays.MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 Television lovers of all different ilk are losing some beloved 
shows this year. “The Mentalist,” “Glee,” “Justified,” “Parks and 
Recreation” and, to my dismay (after only recently binge watching 
on Netflix), “The League” have ended or will end. Perhaps the most unfortunate loss of the year, however, is “Mad Men.”
“Mad Men” was one of the first prominent 
dramas on cable television, and it was AMC’s 
first original series. The network had previous-
ly been known as American Movie Classics and showed older films for the majority of its first 20 years of programming. In the early 2000s, 
they moved toward showing films from all time 
periods until “Mad Men” premiered in 2007 
and changed the face of television forever.
AMC aired the first of the final seven epi-
sodes of “Mad Men” on Sunday, and it is al-
most impossible to predict what is going to 
happen next.
Theories and musings about the final episodes have been pop-
ping up since before season seven even began. A prominent ques-
tion that is being asked across the Internet: Who will survive? 
Many fans, myself included, are not so certain that Don Draper 
can make it to the end alive. The show’s title sequence only furthers this rumor, as it features Don’s outline falling from a building sur-rounded by advertisements.
Fans have also postulated that Megan is a kind of manifestation 
of Sharon Tate and that, much like the real actress, she could end up being murdered. Others suggest that either Peggy or Pete will meet their demise by the series' end.
One of the more far-fetched rumors going around is that Don will 
eventually be revealed as D.B. Cooper, a man who hijacked a plane in 1971. While there are some similarities between Don and Cooper, it doesn’t seem like a plausible theory.
“Mad Men” is drenched in U.S. history, but it is not like the show 
to place their characters into any kind of historic role. Perhaps it could serve as a shocking end to the mysterious show, but over the past few seasons Don has been making efforts to be a better father to his children, and it doesn’t make sense that he’d be willing to cut himself out of their lives.
A more realistic theory that would debunk the Cooper idea is 
that we will encounter a jump in time toward the mid-1970s. The clothes and hairstyles in the teaser trailer are more similar to the middle of the decade than the beginning, and the song, Diana Ross’ “Love Hangover,” was not released until 1976. For a show that has always prided itself on historical accuracy, it seems likely that we’ll be moving forward in time.
If we’ve learned anything from “Mad Men” it’s to expect the 
unexpected. 
There is no clear direction for the show these last few episodes, 
but in the capable hands of creator Matthew Weiner, we will un-doubtedly receive a rewarding and meaningful ending to a brilliant 
show.
Aubrey Shanahan writes for the Collegian Central. A version of 
this column originally appeared on UWire.In 1983, Alfred Smith and Galen Black 
were fired from their jobs after test-ing positive for mescaline, the main compound in the illegal and halluci-nogenic peyote cactus. As members of 
the Native American Church, they had not ingested peyote for recreational use but rather for sacramental purposes. The case was brought to the U.S. Supreme Court in 1990 where their claim to religious free-dom was denied by a six-judge majority.
Nationwide outrage at the ruling ensued, and the 
decadelong issue was finally resolved three years later when a coalition of civil liberties and religious groups successfully lobbied Congress to pass the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) of 1993, an uncontroversial piece of legislation which states, “Government shall not substantially burden a per-son’s exercise of religion even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability.” The only ex-ception is that the government may burden such a person “in furtherance of a compelling governmen-tal interest.” 
In other words, the government must turn a blind 
eye toward illegal yet benign religious practices but maintain the authority to prohibit religious practices that might cause societal harm, such as human sac-rifice, to cite the most extreme example.
There is one key distinction between the federal 
and the Indiana RFRA.
While the federal RFRA does not define what 
constitutes a “person,” the Indiana RFRA, in section seven, defines a person as an individual, religious organization or limited liability company. In other words, a corporation. Therein lies the controversy, for it extends the protections of the RFRA to busi-nesses. 
The only way a business could benefit from RFRA 
protection is if it is being sued for either not serv-ing or not hiring somebody, because doing so would infringe upon the religious beliefs of the business owner. 
Thus, it comes as no surprise that liberals and 
members of the lesbian, gay, transgender and bi-sexual community are outraged at the state RFRA bills that have been popping up recently.
Right now, Gov. Mike Pence is trying to clarify 
that the Indiana RFRA does not allow businesses to deny service to anybody. But if the RFRA is revised to include such an anti-discrimination clause, then there will have been no point in passing it in the first place because the only people who support the Indiana RFRA are those who hold prejudices and seek to legitimize their will to discriminate others in the eyes of the law.
Monday on Fox News, Florida Sen. Marco Ru-
bio voiced his support for the Indiana RFRA. In re-sponse to the widely expressed concern that the RFRA would make legal the denial of service to gay or lesbian couples seek-ing wedding arrangements, he said, “The issue we’re talking about here is should someone who provides a professional service be punished by the law because they refused to provide that professional service to a ceremony that they believe is in violation of their faith?” Then, deliver-ing probably the biggest non sequitur in 
national politics all week, he added, “I think people have a right to live out their religious faith in their own lives.”
Nobody is disputing people’s right to live out 
their religious faiths in their own personal lives.
To conflate the two is a feeble attempt to mask 
prejudice with religious freedom. It is the claim by RFRA supporters that people have a right to live out their religious faiths when conducting business that is the problem. Businesses do not have the right to discriminate on religious grounds.
What’s really going on is certain business own-
ers do not want to have to interact with LGBTQ+ people, period. Supporters of the RFRA are anti-American in the sense that they seek validity in the pursuit of closing their circles against the LGBTQ+ community. 
While they might not have to serve members of 
the LGBTQ+ community, most other businesses will continue to do so. Not to mention they will lose potential customers who are generally turned off by such intolerance.
Their moral bankruptcy will translate to actual 
bankruptcy.
In pursuit of what they interpret as the right to 
exercise their religious freedom, supporters of the RFRA have essentially made illegitimate their own identities as intelligent, patriotic business people. In their failure to recognize the humanity of one com-munity, they have dehumanized themselves. We might call this whole fiasco a zero-sum game were it not for one thing that happened last week as a result of the passing of the RFRA: the establishment of the First Church of Cannabis.
“This is a church to show a proper way of life, a 
loving way to live life,” said Bill Levin, the church’s founder. “We are called ‘cannataerians.’”
Levin is strongly opposed to the Indiana RFRA. 
But he has decided to take advantage of the legal loopholes that it has opened up.
They, not the pro-RFRA business owners of 
America, are the bulwark against the adverse conse-quences of strict adherence to secular laws.
Erik Alexander writes for the Emory Wheel. 
A version of this column originally appeared on UWire. 
Businesses can discriminate with consequencesUWire
Erik Alexander
UWire
Aubrey 
Shanahan
UWirePredicting the beginning 
of the end of ‘Mad Men’UWire8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Hanna, a 22-year-old UF biochemistry senior, performs a wakeboard stunt on cables in the Orlando Watersports 
Complex on Sunday afternoon. UF’s Wakeboarding Club placed second in the Red Bull Rival competition over the weekend.
CAMPUS
By Veronica Garcia 
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 30 UF students spent Saturday night in the 
water. 
UF’s Wakeboarding Club placed second in the Red 
Bull Rival competition at the Orlando Watersports Complex behind the University of Central Florida. This is the first time Red Bull has held a collegiate wake-board competition.
Riders from UF, UCF, Florida State University and 
University of South Florida competed against each oth-er in the nighttime wakeboard contest.
The riders hit the water to perform their top tricks 
and light each obstacle in their team color. The team with the most obstacles lit wins.
Professional wakeboard athletes were team coaches 
and judges.
Dixie Smith, UF wakeboard club president and a bi-
ology senior, was UF’s only female competitor. There are roughly 80 active members in the club, she said.
 “Our riders all did amazing, and we had like 30 to 
35 members from the wake club come out and cheer us on until the end,” Smith, 20, said. 
Last spring, the club placed second in USA Wake-
board Nationals.  
Michael Hanna, a team rider and UF biochemistry 
senior, said the Gators had the most fan support. 
“Overall, it was an awesome competition to ride in 
under the lights,” Hanna, 22, said, “and the caliber of riding that we witnessed last night was at an elite level, with every rider giving their all to go as big as they could with every trick they threw down.”UF wakeboarding club places 2nd in Red Bull competitionBy Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Saturday afternoon on a 
charge of sexual battery after an 
officer reportedly saw him raping a UF student.
At about 1:30 
a.m., Jarrod 
Roberts, 27, met 
the woman, a 
UF student, at a 
Midtown bar, ac-
cording to a po-
lice report. Short-ly after, the two 
drove Roberts’ scooter to his house. 
Roberts asked to have unprotected 
sex, and the woman refused. She 
then began walking home, acciden-tally leaving her phone at Roberts’ house.
Roberts convinced the woman 
to get her phone from his house, 
according to the report. On the 400 
block of Southeast Fifth Avenue, she 
realized they weren’t 
walking the right di-rection and tried to 
leave. Roberts then 
dragged her into the 
driveway of an aban-
doned Gainesville Re-gional Utilities building.
The woman started to scream, 
but Roberts choked her, according 
to the report. He then forced her to 
perform oral sex before raping her.
When police drove by and saw 
the assault, Roberts ran away, ac-cording to the report. The woman 
then told the officer what hap-
pened.
At about 8:30 a.m., police ques-tioned Roberts after seeing a scoot-er and a house that matched the description the woman gave them. The officer who witnessed the bat-tery saw clothes in the house that 
matched the outfit of the man he saw, ac-cording to the report.
The woman was 
treated at UF Health Shands Hospital, Gainesville Police 
spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Roberts has been the subject of 
two separate complaints of stalking people he met through Tinder, To-bias said.
Police arrested Roberts on a 
charge of sexual battery. Authori-ties took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $750,000 bond.Gainesville man arrested for rape
CRIMEBy The Associated Press
GARISSA, Kenya — One of 
the gunmen who slaughtered 
148 people at a college in Kenya was identified Sunday as the law-school-educated son of a Kenyan 
government official, underscor-
ing the inroads Islamic extremists have made in recruiting young people to carry out attacks against their own country.
Abdirahim Mohammed Abdul-
lahi, who was killed by security forces Thursday along with the three other militants who stormed 
Garissa University College, was 
the son of a government chief in Mandera County, which borders Somalia, Interior Ministry spokes-man Mwenda Njoka told The As-sociated Press.
The chief had reported his son 
missing last year and feared he had gone to Somalia, Njoka said.
Somalia’s al-Shabab militant 
group claimed responsibility for the bloodbath, saying it was ret-ribution for Kenya’s sending of troops to Somalia to fight the ex-tremists. The attackers separated Christian students from Muslim 
ones and massacred the Chris-
tians.
The news that one of the gun-
men was Kenyan highlights the challenges faced by the govern-ment in preventing terrorist at-
tacks. The danger comes not only 
from neighboring Somalia but also from within Kenya.Son of Kenyan official 
identified as gunman 
THE WINNER WILL 
RECEIVE $500.
By Alexandra Booth
Alligator Contributing Writer
The final round for UF’s Three 
Minute Thesis Competition will be 
held Tuesday.
The competition, developed by 
the University of Queensland in Australia, challenges graduate stu-dents to present their research in a three-minute elevator talk using only one PowerPoint slide. This is the second 3MT competition held at UF.
“It pushes students to con-
dense their research,” said Regina Martuscello, the runner-up in last year’s competition. Her presenta-tion last year was based on her nutritional research about how diet can manipulate cancer. 
The finals are at 2 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium and are free. The winner will receive $500, the runner-up $350 and the peo-ple’s choice award winner $250, according to the web page.Out of 75 students who reg-
istered, the 10 finalists this year are Kimberly Hawkins, Chanda Jones Littles, Hannah Allen, Derek Archer, Douglas Bennion, Lydia Little, Jerald Pinson, Danielle Tol-son, William Brooks and Shraddha Sundaram.
The topics range from Tolson’s 
study of young adults’ responses to parents, teachers, supervisors and police, to Allen’s research on ketogenic (low-carb) theory for sei-zures.
Participants had to go through four preliminary rounds held over three days, said Emilia Hodge, the graduate education outreach direc-tor in the division of graduate stu-dent affairs.  
The audience will vote on their 
favorite presentation for the peo-ple’s choice award, she said.
Anyone is allowed to come and 
observe the presentations in the audience, which Martuscello said is part of the challenge.
“Normally, (participants) are 
good at explaining their research to people in their field,” Martuscello said.
The judges make decisions 
based on three criteria: how a par-ticipant communicated his or her research and its significance to a non-specialized audience, how well the audience understood the research and how much the  pre-sentation made the audience want to know more.
“The main thing we ask the 
judges to look for is what the pre-sentation (conveys) to a non-pro-fessional, non-technical audience,” Hodge said.
Thesis competition down to 10; final round on TuesdayRoberts
MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Keeping it Clean
Tygur, the 40-year-old lead advocacy coordinator for Dignity Village — the tent 
city around the Grace Marketplace homeless shelter — clears debris from the forest behind a resident’s compound Saturday. Tygur said he often wakes up early to walk around the area and keep it clean.
By The Associated Press
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — A widely dis-
credited Rolling Stone magazine article 
about an alleged gang rape at the Univer-sity of Virginia was a “story of journalistic failure that was avoidable,” the Columbia 
University Graduate School 
of Journalism said in a report published Sunday night.
The 12,000-word re-
view, undertaken at Rolling Stone’s request, presented a broad indictment of the magazine’s handling of a story that had horriﬁ  ed read-
ers, unleashed widespread 
protests at the university’s Charlottesville campus and sparked a national discussion about sexual assaults on college campuses.
The report came two weeks after the 
Charlottesville Police Department an-nounced that it had found no evidence to back the claims of the victim identiﬁ  ed in the story only as “Jackie,” who claimed 
she was raped by seven men at the Phi 
Kappa Psi fraternity house.
Rolling Stone’s “failure encompassed 
reporting, editing, editorial supervision and fact-checking,” said the journalism school’s report, which was posted on the school’s and magazine’s websites.
Rolling Stone Managing Editor Will 
Dana posted an apology on the publica-tion’s website and said the magazine was 
ofﬁ  cially retracting the story.
The author, Sabrina Rubin Erdely, also 
apologized in a statement, 
saying she would not repeat the mistakes she made when writing the November article “A Rape on Campus.”
“Reading the Columbia 
account of the mistakes 
and misjudgments in my 
reporting was a brutal and humbling experience,” she 
said.
The report found three major ﬂ  aws in 
the magazine’s reporting methodology: that Erdely did not try to contact the three friends, instead taking Jackie’s word for it that one of them refused to talk; that she 
failed to give enough details of the alleged 
assault when she contacted the fraternity for comment, which made it difﬁ  cult for the organization to investigate; and that Rolling Stone did not try hard enough to ﬁ  nd the person Jackie accused of orches-trating the assault.Rolling Stone reviews its
article on alleged UVA rapeCAMPUS
By Oscar Bergeron-Oakes
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s club hockey team is crowdfunding to 
prepare for its upcoming season. 
The team launched a GoFundMe page to 
raise $10,000 of the $40,000 it needs to com-
pete in the 2015 to 2016 season. 
Student Government allots the team 
$10,000, and the players are left to raise the other $30,000.
Mark Finkelstein, the treasurer of the club 
team, got the idea after seeing other club hockey teams use the website. 
Because UF does not have a hockey rink, 
the team has to travel to Jacksonville if it wants to practice or host a home game during the regular season.
“If a couple people donate $20, I mean, 
that pays for one hotel room for a night,” the 19-year-old accounting sophomore said. “People don’t realize how signiﬁ  cant any amount of money helps us.”
So far, the page has raised $745 since it 
launched in February. 
Donors mostly include friends and family, 
but the team’s strong fan bases in both Jack-sonville and Orlando have also donated to the cause. 
By the end of this season, players car-
pooled to practices and games because the team could no longer afford to rent vans. As 
a result, the team only has one 90-minute 
practice each week during the season, said Brendan Nicholson, the team’s president. The 20-year-old accounting sophomore said the team does everything it can to minimize costs.
If the club raises enough money for this 
season, it’ll automatically start raising money for the next season. 
There is no end date to donate to the Go-
FundMe.
“It is expensive, it’s time-consuming, but I 
just love to play,” Finkelstein said. “It’s one of those things that I’ve been doing for most of my life, and I just don’t want to give it up. That’s how most of the guys on the team are.”Club hockey team put on ice 
to raise funds via GoFundMe
“If a couple people donate $20, I mean, 
that pays for one hotel room for a night. 
People don’t realize how signiicant any 
amount of money helps us.”
Mark Finkelstein
treasurer, UF club hockey team
The UF Club Hockey T eam  spends about
 per year.
They get 
  from student gov’t,
so they fundraise the other 
 .
A home game costs
 dollars.
“Ice time ” for practice — 
once a week during the regular season — 
costs 
  for 00:90:00 minutes.
They also have to rent vans and
or farther for every game or practice for the 
23 people  on the team.
Their GoFundMe is looking to raise
Their GoFundMe is looking to raise
 of the 
 .hotels as well as travel to JacksonvilleNATIONAL
NEWSBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balconyParking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● 
Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-
rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental 
School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-
1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $495
Small Pet ok
352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-101For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR    11 
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
B.A.S.S. is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in psychology,
special education, or related fields
to work with
individuals with developmental disabilities.
Interest in behavior analysis, diet,
and/or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at
lister@behavioralsupports.com for more info.
4-6-15-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesMONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Junior Najee Glass runs the anchor leg of the 4x400-meter relay at the Florida Relays on Saturday at 
the Percy Beard Track. The Gators won the race in 3:01.78.
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
On a weekend in which all 21 
of Florida’s senior athletes were 
honored in front of the fan fare, 
UF came out to play, 
garnering 20 individ-ual personal records and 17 top-five indi-
vidual-event finishes 
at the three-day Flori-da Relays.
And no athlete on 
Florida’s roster stood 
out more this weekend 
than junior sprinter Najee Glass.
The Southeastern Conference 
400-meter champion dominated 
in said event on Friday with a 
45.19-second mark, a PR and the top time in the NCAA this season as well as the eighth-best time in program history.
Glass also took part in two 
event-winning relays on Saturday. 
The Woodbridge, New Jer-
sey, native was the third leg in 
the sprint medley relay for a Florida team — made up of Ant-
wan Wright, Dedric Dukes, Glass 
and Andres Arroyo — that broke 
the track and meet record with a 3 minute, 13.96-second perfor-mance.
Glass anchored the 4x400 
squad that won the Jimmy Carnes Invite. 
Preceded by Nick 
Uruburu, Dukes and 
Eric Futch, respective-
ly, Glass carried the baton over the finish line to commence the 
end of the Relays and 
cap off a successful weekend for 
the Gators.
“I’ve been challenging Najee 
since he walked on campus to 
kind of be who I believe he is,” 
coach Mike Holloway said. “But I think the biggest thing is it doesn’t matter what I believe. Najee’s got 
to believe it.”
The women’s 4x4 foursome of 
Destinee Gause, Kyra Jefferson, 
Destiny Washington and Clau-dia Francis also pitched in on the Gators, Glass shatter records at UF-hosted Florida Relays
TRACK &
FIELDUF set 20 personal bests
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 15
GYMNASTICS
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
As a team, it wasn’t the 
Gators’ best performance. But in-dividually, Bridget Sloan wasn’t 
far off from the best meet of her career.
Top-seeded 
Florida took 
home first place 
in its NCAA Re-gional on Sat-urday, scoring 
a 197.475  in Morgantown, West 
Virginia.
Florida's score topped re-
gional opponents Stanford 
(197.000), Illinois (196.675), Ar-
kansas (196.500), West Virginia 
(195.650) and New Hampshire (194.825). Florida and Stanford will advance to the NCAA Semi-finals, which will be held in two weeks.
The Gators were led by Sloan, 
who came 0.025 from the best all-around score of her collegiate career with a 39.800. The junior 
scored a 9.975 on vault, a 9.925 
on beam and two 9.950s on bars and floor.
It was the first time Sloan had 
competed on floor since Jan. 11 
when she sprained her ankle 
in the event in Florida’s season opener, but she looked at ease as she glided around the competi-
tion floor.
“She was amazing,” coach 
Rhonda Faehn said. “It was in-
credible, it was as if she hadn’t missed a day of training or any of 
the competitions.”Florida advances to 
NCAA semifinals
Sloan
FLORIDA BASEBALL GAVE 
UP FIVE RUNS IN THE 
FIFTH INNING OF THE 
DECIDING GAME.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Through four-and-a-half in-
nings, the rubber game between 
Florida and Missouri was quiet.
Both teams had accumulated 
just two hits each, and aside from a solo home run from Josh Tobias, both offenses were stagnant.
But Missouri (22-11, 8-4 South-
eastern Conference) finally broke through the scoring silence with a five-run fifth inning, riding its lead 
to a 5-3 upset and series win over 
No. 4 Florida (24-9, 6-6 SEC) on Sunday.
UF’s batters struck out 11 times 
in Game 3, and while its pitching 
was solid early, it wasn’t enough 
to overcome a subpar offensive performance. 
The Gators tallied a .161 bat-ting average.
Starter Dane Dunning (4-1) al-
lowed just two hits through the game’s first four innings, but was 
responsible for four runs in the 
fifth. 
With the Gators trailing 2-1, se-
nior Bobby Poyner replaced Dun-ning on the mound and promptly struck out the first batter he faced. 
But Mizzou’s next batter, soph-
omore Ryan Howard, hit a three-run homer off Poyner to take a four-run lead.
“In this league, you’ve got to 
make pitches to finish innings,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “That’s been the story of our pitching the last couple weeks. 
We’ve had a very, very difficult 
time making pitches in the middle of an inning.”
Florida’s pitching staff limited Missouri to just three hits for the remainder of the game, but the deficit was too much to overcome. 
UF rallied in the top of the 
ninth after a Tobias RBI triple and a Schwarz sacrifice fly, but fell short after three straight fly-outs.
UF’s pitchers combined for sev-
en strikeouts but allowed ten hits for the second consecutive game.
Florida will return home to face 
Stetson on Tuesday at 7 p.m.
“We’ve got to try and correct 
it, and figure out who we can pitch on the weekends that can make some pitches in the middle of an inning so we can stop giving 
up these big innings,” O’Sullivan 
said. “Something’s going to have to change.”
Series Notes: Harrison Bader 
went hitless in a series for the first 
time this season…Peter Alonso 
went 2-for-11 with 2 RBIs in his series debut…UF now has 27 home runs, one more than it had 
all of last season.
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.UF drops road series against Mizzou
“W e've had a very, very 
difficult time making pitches 
in the middle of an inning.”
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach
Miss the action this weekend?
For all the scores and updates 
from UF athletics, go to alligator.org/sports.J.D. T omlinson and the UF men's golf team begin their  final regular-season tournament today at the Old Waverly Collegiate Championship in West Point, Mississippi.
Gators hold Pro Day today
Twenty-two former UF football players return to Gainesville today for their 
Pro Day ahead of the 2015 NFL Draft. Action begins at 10:30 a.m. at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and is open to the public.14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
The Florida softball team swung 
the bats like no other team in pro-
gram history last weekend against South Carolina, earning its  ﬁ  rst series sweep of the season and es-
tablishing a school record.
The Gators scored 45 runs 
against the Gamecocks — the most 
runs Florida has ever scored in a three-game series.
On Friday night, 
Florida took down South Carolina 10-2 to set the tone for 
the remaining two 
games. In the double-header Saturday, the Gators pum-
meled Gamecock pitching as they 
won 19-0 and 16-3.
After dropping the last game 
of all three Southeastern Confer-ence series they’ve played — two of which would have given them a series sweep — UF was fueled and could smell a sweep.
“We wanted a sweep. We al-
ways do,” senior Lauren Haeger said. “We just wanted to buckle down, get a sweep and get it for the ﬁ  rst time. It feels really good.”
Before the series against the 
Gamecocks, Florida had scored 47 runs in its last 10 games combined.Coach Tim Walton’s batters 
were stuck in a little bit of a rut be-
fore the weekend, which he attrib-
uted to all the traveling the team had been doing.
“If you look back at our his-
tory of us, we kind of run into a little bit of a wall at times when we come back from California,” he said.
Florida hitters looked pretty 
comfortable back on their home ﬁ  eld — they compiled 33 hits and hit .446 in the three-game series.
In the middle of 
the offensive explo-sion was Haeger and senior Bailey Castro. The two combined to go 10-for-15 and 
blasted ﬁ  ve home runs in the trio of games.
Castro homered twice in the 
Friday win. Her ﬁ  rst homer gave UF a 3-2 lead, and her second fol-lowed Haeger’s three-run homer and ended the game via run rule.
“She’s getting her mojo back a 
little bit” Haeger said. “We’re both just trying to get it going again.”
In the ﬁ  nal game, it was Hae-
ger who cranked out two home 
runs and tallied six RBIs. The Peo-
ria, Arizona, native drove in 10 of Florida’s runs in the series.
Haeger had been ice cold at 
the plate prior to the weekend and hadn’t homered since March 
7 against Fresno State. The senior 
now has sole possession of the team’s home run lead with twelve.
“When she swings at good 
pitches, she typically can get re-ally hot and can really get on ﬁ  re,” 
Walton said. “When she gets go-
ing, buddy you better watch out.”
1
432
Our Local Living Edition is the per fect 
place to position your advertisements for 
the local market... a nd they aren’t goi ng anywhere!
Our L ocal Li ving Edition i s the perf ect 
place t o position y our advertisements f or 
the local m arket... an d they aren’t goin g an ywhere!
This paper prints t he last day of c lasses when students 
are getti ng ready to leave town for the semester break. 
Maximize your exposure by advertising in t he last 
paper of t he Spring semester and reach students 
and Gai nesville lo calsDeadline: Deadline: Deadline: Run Date: Run D ate: Run D ate:
Contact your sales rep to day!Wednesday, April 15
Contact y our sales rep tod ay!
(352) 376-4482Contact y our sales rep tod ay!
(352) 376-4482 (352) 376-4482Wednesday, April 22WWWWWWWorried torried torried torried torried torried tWorried tW hat your business 
might t ake a summer break 
with t he student s?Worried th at your business 
might take a s umm er br eak 
with th e students ?Worried th at your business 
might take a s umm er br eak 
with th e students ?
All ads
receive a
10%
discountAll All All All adadadadssss
rrrrereeeeececcccceeeeieiiiiivivvvvve ave ae ae ae ae a
10%10%10%10%
ddddidiiiiisissssscocococountcountuntuntuntunt
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
UF players celebrate as senior Lauren Haeger (17) crosses home plate after hitting a home run during 
Florida’s 10-2 win against South Carolina on Friday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Haeger hit three home runs during the series, and the Gators outscored the Gamecocks by a combined 45-5 score.
Gators oﬀ  ense surges in weekend sweep of South Carolina
SOFTBALLFlorida scored 45 runs
TENNIS
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
The Florida men’s tennis team 
had mixed results in its ﬁ  nal home 
weekend of the regular season.
After topping No. 25 LSU 4-2 
on Friday, the No. 16 Gators fell 
ﬂ  at on Sunday, losing their home 
ﬁ  nale against No. 8 Texas A&M 4-0 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Florida did one thing in Fri-
day’s match against LSU that they failed to do on Sunday against the Aggies: get ahead.
UF brought in the doubles 
point against the Tigers to give the Gators the 1-0 lead before get-ting wins from Chase Perez-Blan-co, Gordon Watson and Elliott Orkin in singles play.
Although Florida won its match on Friday, coach Bryan Shelton said there were still im-
provements to be made.
“It’s easy to 
start watching 
the scoreboards and seeing how their teammates are doing while they’re trying to play,” Shelton 
said. “It’s not easy because they care about the team and they want the team to 
do well and they care about one 
another, so I kind of understand it, but at the same time they need to focus in on their court.”
And when the Gators looked at 
the scoreboards on Sunday, they were behind.
Texas A&M (17-3, 10-1 South-
eastern Conference) took the 
doubles point in just 40 minutes, winning 6-0 on the No. 3 Court 
and 6-4 on Court 1.
All six singles matches were 
forced into a third-set.
However, the Gators (11-7, 6-4 
SEC) found themselves playing catch up after falling behind in four of six ﬁ  rst sets.
Continue reading this story on-
line at alligator.org/sports
UF men’s tennis drops home ﬁ  nale against Texas A&M
Shelton
MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
relay action, winning the Tom Jones 4x4 Invite 
with a 3:31.00 mark.
Junior mid-distance runner Ryan Schnulle 
was also able to make his presence known this 
weekend.  
Schnulle, the SEC 800-meter champion, start -
ed off his Relays and outdoor season with a sec -
ond-place finish in the 800, crossing the finish line in 1:46.89. The mark is only six-tenths of a 
second higher than his outdoor PR, which he set 
at last year’s National Outdoor Championships in June.
Schnulle played a large role in Florida’s sec
-
ond-place finish in the men’s distance medley relay. When Schnulle was given the baton by Ga
-
briel Aird to run the 800-meter leg of the race, the Gators were in fifth place. 
But after Schnulle ran his two laps and hand
-
ed off the baton to Mark Parrish for the final leg, Florida was out in front. 
Despite losing the race lead and eventually the 
event on the second turn of the final 400 meters, the Gators would not be in the position that they were without Schnulle’s contribution.
“Ryan ran a phenomenal leg. That was fan
-
tastic,” Parrish said. “He’s always just so rock solid.”
Holloway was very pleased with the relays as 
a whole, an event that he has been working on 
growing since he became UF's coach.
“I believe in my mind that from the collegiate 
side,” Holloway said, “this is the best collegiate relay meet in the country.”TRACK,  from pg 13Florida ended the meet with wins in the 4x400-meter relays
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF freshman Jordan Mansour participates in the men's pole vault on Saturday. Mansour competed unattached 
from the Gators and finished in 15th place with a 4.65-meter vault. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The Florida track and field team huddles together following the conclusion of the 2015 Florida Relays on Saturday at the Percy Beard Track. During the three-day event, the Gators posted 17 top-five finishes and set 20 personal-best marks.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Shelby Hayes runs the opening leg of the women's 4x800-meter relay on Saturday. The re-lay team — which consisted of Hayes, Macy Huskey, Lauren Perry and T aylor Tubbs — finished in seventh place with a time of 9:00.09.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2015
1
1312111098765432
1
2FLETCHER’SFLETCHER’SLoungeLoungeFLETCHER’SLoungeFLETCHER’S
$3 forFLETCHER’S
Funky MonkeyFunky MonkeyBitch SlapLounge
$3 for
Funky MonkeyBitch SlapLoungeLoungeLoungeLoungeLounge
Funky MonkeyFunky MonkeyFunky MonkeyFunky MonkeyFunky MonkeyLoungeLoungeLoungeLoungeLounge
Funky MonkeyFunky MonkeyFunky MonkeyFunky MonkeyFunky Monkeyor
Exp.4/22
3:30 pm until on Tues., Wed., Thurs.
619 NW 5th Ave.
iPhone 6 Glass repairFreeFree
2950 SW Archer Rd
(352) 505-6834tempered glass screen 
protector with
1
2$5 off any  regular 
price purchas e of 
$15 or more
352-378-4650
3727 W. University Ave.exp. 
6/30/15
Your everything 
tabletop store & parlor
4211 NW 16th BlvdFREE table with this coupon
352-378-PLAY
4211 NW 16th Blvd
FREE table with 
Exp 5/1/15
1
2
Renaissance Jewelers
GAINESVILLE’S
OLDEST 
LOCALLY
OWNED 
FULL SERVICE 
JEWELRY STORE
3435 W University Ave
(352) 335-71883435 W University Ave
(352) 335-7188
1
2
Proudly serving Gator students 
for 4 Generations!
Mon - Fri 7:30 am - 5:00 pm
Saturday 7:30 am - 2:00 pmSTUDENT DISCOUNT
(352)372-0138
www.ChuckBushAutoRepair.com
818 W University Ave818 W University Ave
(352) 375-3752BOGO 1/2 off
clothing only
limit one coupon per person 
per day (expires 04/12)BOGO 1/2 offBOGO 1/2 offBOGO 1/2 offBOGO 1/2 offclothing onlyBOGO 1/2 offclothing onlyBOGO 1/2 off
clothing onlyclothing onlyclothing only
llimit one coupon per person llimit one coupon per person ilimit one coupon per person ilimit one coupon per person mit onelimit one coupon per person mit onelimit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person co limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person u limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person pon limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person p limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person er limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person p limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person er limit one coupon per person limit one coupon per person son limit one coupon per person 
perper day (expires 04/12)perper day (expires 04/12)day (expper day (expires 04/12)day (expper day (expires 04/12)per day (expires 04/12) i per day (expires 04/12)per day (expires 04/12) r per day (expires 04/12)per day (expires 04/12) e per day (expires 04/12)per day (expires 04/12) s per day (expires 04/12)per day (expires 04/12)  04/1 per day (expires 04/12)per day (expires 04/12) 2 per day (expires 04/12) ) per day (expires 04/12) ) per day (expires 04/12)1
2
Got job interview?
sandscle aners.comHave your suit cleaned here!
503 SW 3rd St 352-372-4184
Close to campus
BOGO 1/2 OFF LUNCH
M-F 11-4BOGO 1/2 OFF LUNCHBOGO 1/2 OFF LUNCHBOGO 1/2 OFF LUNCHBOGO 1/2 OFF LUNCH
Magnolia Parke
4860 NW 37th Ave | Suite A
352-872-5970Magnolia ParkeMagnolia ParkeMagnolia ParkeMagnolia Parke
4860 NW 37th Ave | Suite A4860 NW 37th Ave | Suite A4860 NW 37th Ave | Suite A
352-872-5970352-872-5970352-872-5970352-872-5970
1
2
Cuban Sandwich meal
3700 NW 91st
Gainesville, FL 32606
(352) 519-5579*limit 1 per customer exp. 5/1includes plaintain chips 
& small smoot hie1
2
Take out & Delivery
1040 E. University Ave.www .stmseafood. netyour mealBreakfast. Lunch. Dinner
352-727-7297$2 OFF
1
2
352-672-6727
In the Oaks Mall next to  JC PennyBring this 
in for $2 
discount 
on any $15 
haircut!
exp: 5/1/15
1
2
Buy $100 of
gift 
card
352-338-9116 |  GATOR JEWELRY
and get a
ufjewelry .comFree shipping  anywhere in U.S.
Valid online and in-store
