We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 53 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
Mo practice, No problems
Assistant coach uses music legend to inspire 
women’s basketball team, pg. 18
2nd & Charles bookstore opens Friday
It will move into the Books-A-Million location, pg. 3
‘Old Joe’ still ﬁ  nds himself without a home
Matheson Museum may accept it, pg. 5Ken Peng starts McElwainisms page
He talks about social media, pg. 12
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
As football players duke it out in the 
Swamp on Saturday, gamers of a different sort 
will battle in the air-conditioned Reitz Union 
Ballroom.
Gators will rumble and melee, but not in 
helmets. With controllers squeezed between 
their palms, hundreds of video-game fanatics will ﬁ  ll the Rietz Grand Ballroom for Gator-LAN, Florida’s largest free gaming event. 
With an arts-and-crafts-corner and more 
than 11 gaming tournaments, about 800 peo-ple are expected to attend, said Ed Fonseca, former president of Gator Gaming and a UF alumnus.  
In the past, the ballroom has been ﬁ  lled 
with students staring intently at their games.
The event, hosted by Gator Gaming, UF’s 
ofﬁ  cial video-gaming group, will last from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., said UF telecommunications senior Charlene McGhee, 21, who is also the 
event’s project manager.
Alani Ilori, the advertising director for 
Gator Gaming, said the scheduling for Satur-
day’s GatorLAN was unexpected. The group booked the room last year, and it happened to 
be Homecoming.Despite that, she said football games aren’t 
for everyone. And for the rest, there’s Gator-LAN.
UF electrical engineering junior Julian 
Mendoza has been attending GatorLANs for 
the past two years.   
“It’s a whole ecosystem in and of itself,” 
the 20-year-old said. “We pretty much inhabit the Reitz Union.”
As the marching band leads the Gators, 
Mendoza will pluck the theme songs of his 
favorite video games.
“You’re gonna remember something at 
that event for sure,” he said.Gamers break out controllers for Homecoming
UF COLLEGE’S ALUMNI, 
FRIENDS CELEBRATE 90 
YEARS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Electronic calculators were 
invented when Tina Gurucharri 
was studying landscape architec-
ture at UF.
“Everyone was really excited 
to buy it,” the 60-year-old said. 
“It cost $100 to buy a calculator.”
Now Gurucharri is the depart-
ment chair of landscape architec-ture in the UF College of Design, Construction and Planning. 
This week, the college will 
celebrate its birthday with alum-ni, faculty and students.
On Saturday, graduating class-
es from the college will come together for barbecue at the col-lege’s birthday tailgate, stay with 
each other in the Hilton and visit 
with faculty at a luncheon.  
The alumni will get the chance 
to walk through their school’s 
past. The college’s gallery, which 
shows the school’s development and the programs it’s added, closes today. But it will reopen 
Saturday for the alumni.
In addition to the changing majors and deans, the build-ing has been updated, too, Gu-
rucharri said.
“For alum that haven’t been 
back in a while, it’s going to be a 
radical change,” she said.
Despite the changes, Gu-
rucharri said a lot has stayed the 
same. The college’s classes are still small. The alumni are still 
close friends.
“There is a tight student cul-
ture,” she said. “They are a tight-
knit family.”
The week will also feature 
open houses to encourage pro-spective students to join that family, said Christopher Silver, the college’s dean. They built it together
SEE DCP,  PAGE4
By Jacquelyn Celona
Alligator Contributing Writer
With Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants tempo-
rarily closing on the West Coast after an E. coli outbreak, local students are reconsidering their 
burrito bowls.
More than 40 Chipotle restaurants were tem-
porarily closed in Oregon and Washington after 
customers were hospitalized with symptoms of the 
bacteria.
Cecily Alvarez, 20, said she is a frequent cus-
tomer at the Chipotle on University Avenue and 
now questions if she should eat there.
“I have started to try other Mexican restaurants 
around campus,” the UF psychology junior said. “Until the Chipotle restaurants on the West Coast open, I do not think the place is worth the risk.”
Keith Schneider, a UF professor in the depart-
ment of  food science and human nutrition, said the closed Chipotle restaurants are more than likely getting their foods from the same supplier. 
He said until the exact strain of the bacteria has 
been identiﬁ  ed, stores must take precautionary measures and investigate where it may be coming from.
However, he said because the foods are prob-
ably supplied locally, the East Coast is not likely to receive any infected ingredients.  
“I suspect Chipotle locally sources a lot of their  Students wary of E.Coli at Chipotle  
SEE CHIPOTLE,  PAGE4John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
The Kappa Sigma and Chi Omega team race to form a hu-
man pyramid during the Homecoming Olympics hosted by Gators March for Babies on Hume Field on Wednesday. About 150 students attended to raise money for March of Dimes and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at UF Health Shands Hospital. See the full photo story on page 8.
“This is the largest gathering 
in many years, certainty 
since I’ve been here.”
Christopher Silver
Dean
LOCALEvent is from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
“It’s a whole ecosystem in and of itself. 
W e pretty much inhabit the Reitz 
Union.”
Julian Mendoza
UF electrical engineering juniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub -
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al -
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As -
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
STRIVE seeks volunteers
STRIVE (Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence 
Education) is currently seeking 
Volunteer Peer Educators who 
represent UF’s diverse Student 
Body. Good at planning and 
promoting events? Passionate 
about changing our current 
culture of interpersonal vio -
lence? Like to have fun while 
educating? We’re the student 
org for you. We were voted 
Outstanding New Student Org 
in 2014-15. We table, give pre -
sentations to students and put 
on three major events yearly, 
including Cupid’s Consent 
Week and Take Back the Night. 
Apply at gatorwell.wufoo.com/
forms/strive-volunteer-applica -
tion/. The deadline is Tuesday, 
Nov. 17 at 12 p.m.  For more 
information about STRIVE, 
visit the GatorWell website and 
click on the Programs tab.
Keep Alachua Beautiful
The nonprofit Keep Alachua 
County Beautiful is looking for 
about two dozen volunteers 
to paint the trim of the Archer 
City Hall at noon on Friday, 
Nov. 13. Please email all inqui -
ries to riley.kacb@gmail.com.
photoUF 2015 photo exhibit
photoUF 2015 is a juried group 
photography exhibit featuring 
photographs taken by UF stu -
dents, faculty, staff and alumni. 
Share with others what the UF 
community looks like by sub -
mitting images of student life, 
activities and UF spirit.  Submit 
your images through our web -
site at union.ufl.edu/photouf. 
Selected images will be on dis -
play in the Reitz Union during 
Spring 2016.
Fight for $15 Protest Organizing 
Meeting Thursday
There will be a nationwide 
Day of Action to Fight for $15 
per hour, worker rights, union 
rights and a dignified work -
ing environment including 
enough pay to support work -
ers and their families. Please 
come out to this organizing 
meeting today at 6 p.m. at the 
Alachua County Education 
Association office, located at 
618 NW 13th Ave. Help us plan 
for the Day of Action which 
will be Tuesday. Alachua County Labor Coalition mem -
bers have been reaching out 
to fast-food restaurant work -
ers here in Alachua County. 
For more information, call 
352-375-2832 or 831-334-0117 
or find us online at laborco -
alition.org/ or facebook.com/
events/495843230576939/.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Triwizard Tournament
Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment will host our an -
nual Harry Potter event Nov. 
10 starting at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
Activities will include enter -
ing your name in the Goblet of 
Fire to battle dragons, saving 
your loved one from the Black 
Lake and navigating the life-
size maze to compete for the 
Triwizard Cup. You can also 
create your own crafts, and 
butterbeer will also be served. 
Check out #TriwizardTrivia for 
new Harry Potter trivia every 
Tuesday. Tweet us with the 
correct answer to win prizes. 
Visit us @UF_RUB on Twitter 
for more information.
High school science research 
competition
Applications for the 53rd 
Annual Junior Science, 
Engineering and Humanities 
Symposium (JSEHS) high 
school science research com -
petition are due Monday  by 5 
p.m. Students in 11th and 12th 
grade who have conducted 
original STEM research are en -
couraged to apply. Best-in-State 
winners receive college schol -
arship awards to the institution 
of their choice and a sponsored 
trip to the national competition 
for the opportunity to win up to 
$16,000 in additional scholar -
ship money. Faculty and STEM 
research staff interested in out -
reach are encouraged to sign 
up to host a lab tour or serve 
as a paper reviewer or compe -
tition judge. For more informa -
tion, contact the UF Center for 
Precollegiate Education and 
Training at jsehs@cpet.ufl.edu, 
cpet.ufl.edu or 352-392-2310.
Festive, Fun Holiday Shopping! 
Nov. 20 to 22
Would you like to kick off 
your holiday shopping in a joy -
ful and friendly atmosphere 
with music, refreshments and 
a wide variety of unique gifts to choose from at reasonable 
prices? Holy Trinity Episcopal 
Church’s highly anticipated an -
nual Holiday Bazaar opens at 7 
p.m. on Nov. 20 with a $5 en -
trance fee at the door. Featured 
will be attic treasures, designer 
seasonal decorations, unique 
jewelry, hand-painted furni -
ture, homemade baked goods 
and much more. The variety 
of beautiful items made by re -
purposing donations is truly 
amazing; we pride ourselves on 
being green. The Bazaar contin -
ues without a fee Nov. 21 from 
9 a.m. to 3 p.m. with lunch 
available from 11:30 a.m. to 
2 p.m. and Sunday from noon 
to 2 p.m. We hope to see you 
there at Holy Trinity Episcopal 
Church, located at 100 NE First 
St. Come join in the fun and 
help support our community 
needs.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ‘65,”  is on 
view in the University Gallery 
at UF until Dec. 4 and is the 
final exhibition of the year in 
celebration of the gallery’s 50th 
anniversary. The exhibition 
showcases two esteemed UF 
art alumni, Robert Fichter and 
Mernet Larsen, and features 
photographs and paintings, in -
cluding photographs from the 
early ‘60s of Fichter and Larsen 
taken by Jerry Uelsmann. A 
public reception will be held 
Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
To learn more about the artists 
and the exhibition, visit arts.
ufl.edu/calendar.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 53
HIGH  90° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Alyssa Fisher, afisher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Ariana Figueroa, afigueroa@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online  Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org    
 Metro Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor  Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor   Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org    
 Editorial Board  Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor  Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson @alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs  Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors  T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives  T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Kendaline Watt
Alligator Contributing Writer
The College of the Arts is allow-
ing students to study medicine and 
music without getting degrees in those ﬁ  elds.
The college will begin expand-
ing its certiﬁ  cate program by add-ing music and medicine to the other four certiﬁ  cates it currently offers.  
The certiﬁ  cates were designed 
about three years ago to give stu-dents the opportunity to study in areas outside of their major without pursuing a degree in those ﬁ  elds, said Edward Schaefer, the associate 
dean of Academic and Student Af-
fairs in the UF College of Fine Arts.
“These certiﬁ  cates are part of a 
very rapidly growing ﬁ  eld (of com-bined arts programs),” Schaefer said.
He said the college wants to ex-
pand students’ opportunities by al-lowing them to study how the arts 
intersects with public health, medi-cine, dance and museums.  
Currently, UF offers certiﬁ  cates 
in museum studies, arts and pub-lic health, arts and medicine, and 
dance and medicine. The music and medicine certiﬁ  cate is in the process of being added, Schaefer said. 
Each certiﬁ  cate requires stu-
dents take an average of 16-class credit hours and an internship, said Glenn Willumson, a UF art history 
professor. UF is implementing the 
arts and medicine certiﬁ  cate pro-grams because many hospitals are starting to incorporate artists into their staff, Schaefer said.
UF anthropology master’s stu-
dent Kelly Delancy will be gradu-ating this Fall and is on course to become the second person to com-
plete the museum studies certiﬁ  -
cate program. The 24-year-old said students should consider certiﬁ  cate programs.
“You can apply it to just about 
anything,” she said. UF College of the Arts 
expands program IT OPENS ON FRIDAY.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
When the Books-A-Million on 13th 
Street closed in August, book-lovers con-
sidered it a tragedy.
But now, a new kind of bookstore will 
take its place.
The new store, 2nd & Charles, opens 
Friday for Homecoming weekend, said Marketing Director Melanie Smith. It is a subdivision of Books-A-Million and will offer not only used books, but also music on CD and vinyl, comics, video games and more.
“We’re calling it nerd-vana,” she said. 
“We’re really excited to be able to of-fer this kind of fun in a store where you can sell us your stuff and come out with a brand new passion, like a desire to col-lect vinyl or an interest in classic books. There’s something for everyone.”
Smith said it is a buy-sell-trade concept 
that allows customers to get rid of old items in exchange for either cash, store credit or 
new items. Customers can also come to the 
store simply to add a vintage book to their collection or try out a new video game at the store’s Nintendo gaming lounge.
2nd & Charles will have its grand open-
ing in Gainesville on Nov. 14. Starting at 
10 a.m., there will be face painting, story 
time and Star Wars characters in costume. The store will also have a giveaway with a $500 shopping spree and ﬁ  ve $100 gift cards.
There will be a Nintendo tournament 
from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
District Manager Barry Wolberg would 
not disclose the exact amount of the reno-
vation, but he said the store’s cafe was re-
modeled into the buy-back area. The store also received a paint job, new carpeting, bathrooms and light ﬁ  xtures, he said. 
Andrew Briz, a UF telecommunication 
sophomore, said although he is into gam-
ing, he probably won’t be very drawn to 
the store.
“I am into video games, and that’s prob-
ably the only thing I’ve engaged in as far as the whole trading atmosphere goes,” the 19-year-old said. “Consignment shops are not exactly things that draw me personally, but they’re big among my peers and other college students so I can see how some-
thing like this will be successful.”
  2nd & Charles to open at Books-A-Million old location
Sydney Spofford / Alligator 
RACING AT THE REITZ 
Samantha Nuzzi (left), a 20-year-old UF biochemistry junior, and Hannah Casey, a 20-year-old UF 
criminology and law junior, race down an inﬂ  atable obstacle course set up by the Inter-Residence Hall Association staff on the Reitz Union lawn on Wednesday. The activities were free for students and included Frisbee golf and cotton candy.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
The alumni like to come back 
to see what they’re giving their 
money to, he said.
“It’s one of the oldest colleges 
in the university, and we haven’t celebrated its history in a long 
time, so it seemed like an impor-
tant time to do it,” Silver said.
Gurucharri said the alumni will 
be excited to see updated studios, 
windows that open to a courtyard 
and new technology.
“I think they are going to be 
excited to see the new learning environment that we have in the 
college now,” she said.To understand the college’s 
progress, UF architecture fresh-
man Cesar Lugaro said he’s been attending alumni-presented talks 
that celebrate the college and 
have been taking place through-out the term.  
“The lectures opened my mind 
to what architecture can do in the 
world,” the 18-year-old said.
Silver said the alumni like 
coming back to UF.
That’s why about 300 alumni 
are expected to tailgate for the 
Homecoming game.
“This is the largest gathering 
in many years, certainty since I’ve been here,” Silver said. “I’m glad 
we got a big tent.”DCP,  from pg 1It’s a tight-knit college
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Kevin Paule (left), a 25-year-old UF third-year law student, chomps into his burrito 
at Chipotle on Tuesday while out to lunch with Craig DeThomasis, a UF trial practice professor. DeThomasis said he wasn’t worried about E. coli. “Life’s a risk, ” he said.
produce,” he said. “The chances that vend-
ers on the West Coast are  providing any 
type of product to the East Coast is prob-
ably slim to none.”
In lieu of a statement, a Chipotle repre-
sentative provided a press release explain-
ing how the company not only closed the 
restaurants, but also conducted environ-mental tests and retained two food safety consulting firms.
Chipotle continues to work swiftly and 
thoroughly with health department officials 
as they look to conclude this investigation, 
the release said.
Taylor Whitfield, 18, said she travels four 
times a week to the opposite side of town to 
eat Chipotle during her lunch break.
“I hope health officials find how to prevent 
the food from being contaminated,” the San -ta Fe College health sciences freshman said. 
“Chipotle automatically makes studying more 
enjoyable and gives me something to look for -
ward to.”
WHAT IS E. COLI?
• E.Coli is an intestinal bacteria 
that can be consumed in con-taminated foods, including un-dercooked meat and vegetables grown in manure or washed in contaminated water.
• Symptoms include nausea, vom-iting, watery or bloody diarrhea, fatigue and/or fever.
• For treatment, doctors recom-mend rest and hydration.CHIPOTLE,  from pg 1Chipotle closed contaminated restaurants and conducted testsNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Nathalie Canate, a 19-year-old UF architecture sophomore, walks to her Design 3 class in the architecture build-
ing Wednesday. This week, the UF College of Design, Construction and Planning, located in the architecture building, celebrates its 90th birthday.
THE GROUP IS STUDYING THE 
EFFECTS OF PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.
By Alena Poulin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will bend, twist and stretch 
from dot to dot at a UF group’s first Twist-
er event.  
Get Fruved UF will encourage students 
to get flexible at 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas. 
Get Fruved, which stands for “get your 
fruits and vegetables,” is a USDA-funded 
research project aimed at encouraging col-
lege students to eat healthier and exercise 
more. The group also coaches students on how to deal with stress, said Leeashaa Ra-moutar, 21, a student researcher for Get 
Fruved.
“It’s to bring awareness,” the UF biol-
ogy junior said. “It’s for your own health, 
too.”
The group is studying the effects of 
physical activity intervention efforts on freshman health. This semester, they  
found that while it’s hard to encourage 
participation, students respond to fun and original forms of exercise, said David Bar-reto, an event coordinator.
The UF food science junior said he’s 
hoping by teaching flexibility, students will prevent injuries.
Barreto, 20, said the event will promote 
healthy habits, which he thinks is an im-portant part of future health.
“It definitely leads, in my opinion, to 
life-long habits,” he said. “If you don’t eat healthy and exercise right now, you’re not going to when you’re 50 or 60. And it re-
ally matters.”Research project promotes 
flexibility, includes TwisterCRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two local 
men Tuesday night after police said they 
had a gun, drugs and a Gator 1 Card. 
About 11:40 p.m. Tuesday, Joel Latta, 
22, and Alfred Cason, 23, drove in the 1600 block of Southwest 13th St. with il-legally tinted windows, according to a po-
lice report.
Authorities pulled the men over and a 
police dog smelled drugs in the car, which 
turned out to be .51 grams of crack, ac-cording to the report.
Police also found a .32-caliber revolver 
with a laser sight taped onto the barrel, according to the report. 
Authorities found it in a backpack with 
a holster and six bullets.
Latta claimed both the gun and the 
drugs, which violated his parole from a previous arrest for carrying a firearm in 2014, according to the report.
An officer then discovered two credit cards, one debit card and a Gator 1 Card, all of which belonged to one man, accord-ing to the report. 
The man graduated 
with a general busi-ness degree in 2012, UF spokesman Steve Orlan-do said.
Police arrested Latta 
on charges for carrying a concealed firearm, pos-sessing cocaine and vio-
lating probation. 
Cason received one 
charge for fraud.
Cason could not be 
reached as of press time.
Authorities took both 
men to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, Latta remains in lieu of a $40,000 bond, 
and Cason was released Wednesday after-noon on a $15,000 bond.Men arrested for drugs, gun
Cason
Latta
“It definitely leads, in my opinion, 
to life-long habits. If you don’t eat 
healthy and exercise right now, you’re 
not going to when you’re 50 or 60. And 
it really matters.”
David Barreto
UF food science juniorTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
MATHESON MUSEUM MAY ACCEPT IT.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A controversial Confederate statue in downtown 
Gainesville may be on its way to a local museum — 
again.
In a press release Wednesday, the Matheson Mu-
seum said it may reconsider accepting the statue it pre-
viously rejected or will prepare a counter-proposal.
In September, the County Commission voted 3-2 to 
relocate the statue — named “Old Joe” — to the mu-
seum. The Matheson never agreed to accept the statue, however, and last month decided against accepting it. Mainly ﬁ  nancial and legal concerns were cited in the press release.
During a County Commission meeting Tuesday, 
County Commissioners asked the museum to recon-sider the offer, according to the press release.  
“I think that the location of the statue is actually part 
of the historical signiﬁ  cance of the statue,” said Com-missioner Ken Cornell, who supports the statue staying at its current location. “It’s located a block away from the Battle of Gainesville.”
“It’s my preference to not move it,” he added. “I 
think it’s an opportunity for us to create a space on the square that would provide an opportunity for us to add to the statue some historical signiﬁ  cance.”
The release cited articles by the Ocala Star Banner 
on how Marion County Commissioners handled the relocation of a different Confederate statue in their county and created a public partnership to raise the funds needed to relocate the statue to the Ocala-Marion County Veterans Memorial Park.
The Museum recommended County Manager Lee 
Niblock follow a similar procedure with relocating the Confederate statue, or potentially use funds from the Tourism Development Council to build signs or com-
panion statues either at the current site or at a new 
location.‘Old Joe’ still 
ﬁ  nds himself without a home
“I think that the location of the statue is 
actually part of the historical signiicance of 
the statue. It’s located a block away from the 
Battle of Gainesville.”
Ken Cornell
CommissionerLEFT:
Shakela Williams, a Grace Mar-
ketplace resident, replaces the breaks on a refurbished bicycle at one of the Freewheel Project’s free workshops on Wednesday. All of the refurbished bikes were sold during community events such as Active Streets Alliance.
BELOW:
Scott Hesch, a Grace Market-place resident, removes a bicycle tire to reﬁ  ll it with air at the Free-wheel Project on Wednesday. The Freewheel Project partnered up with Grace Marketplace to empower the homeless with re-liable transportation, affordable services and parts.
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Tuesday’s elections 
were not a death 
knell for liberalism
Yesterday, news outlets were littered with headlines like 
“Liberals Are Losing the Culture Wars,” “America may be in a reinforcing feedback loop of growing inequality and Republican rule” and “Houston decided it has a problem: Its LGBT nondiscrimination law.” The weak attempt at 
humor in the last headline aside, all three of these articles were written in response to the Nov. 3 election, which was mostly concerned with local affairs and citizen initiatives. As the doom and gloom of these headlines illustrate, it was not a good day for progressive causes, which means it was an even worse day for Democratic politicians.
The first paragraph of The Atlantic’s “Liberals Are Losing…” 
summarizes Tuesday’s results thusly: “…voters rejected recre-ational marijuana, transgender rights, and illegal-immigrant sanc-
tuaries; they reacted equivocally to gun-control arguments.”
Wow, that does sound pretty awful! It would seem fair to as-
sume the outcome of the Nov. 3 election left many progressive/
liberal/filthy-commie-pinko voters with knots in their stomachs. So, what do these results mean? Are American voters categorically rejecting liberalism? Not really.
For the sake of example, let’s take a look at Ohio’s failed bid 
at marijuana legalization, the proposed constitutional amendment Issue 3. Under the proposal, a group of investors — including 
Jessica Simpson’s ex-husband Nick Lachey, for whatever reason 
— known as ResponsibleOhio would have possessed the right to grow and sell marijuana exclusively. 
Although Ohio voters and pundits couldn’t decide whether 
to refer to the arrangement as a monopoly or an oligopoly, they knew bad granola when they smelled it and voted against the measure. Even marijuana advocacy groups like the Drug Policy Alliance and the Marijuana Policy Project refrained from endors-ing the measure. In reality, as far as Issue 3 is concerned, the out-
come may have been even more progressive than the alternative.
Meanwhile in Houston, the wide margin of defeat for the 
HERO law (Houston’s Human Rights Ordinance) was also hailed 
as a sign that vast swathes of American voters may not be as progressive as we have been led to believe. While this may be true, the campaign against the HERO law is awfully similar to that of another initiative with homophobic connotations: California’s Proposition 8. 
The HERO law was meant to protect Houston citizens from 
discrimination, regardless of race, sexuality or gender.  Conserva-tive and religious factions, seeing that the law would grant protec-tions to transgender individuals, opted to run a smear campaign that painted transgender individuals as sexual predators and pe-dophiles. Their “logic” claimed transgender individuals would use bathrooms as dens in which to molest and sexually assault chil-dren. Like Proposition 8 — which temporarily outlawed same-sex marriage in 2008 — the conservative campaign was intellectually deceptive and emotionally manipulative. 
Houston voters didn’t vote against liberalism; they voted to 
indulge in xenophobic fears and hatemongering. The only thing the defeat of the HERO bill signifies is that once more, American voters are susceptible to manipulation and deception by narrow-minded but wealthy influences.
No, the progressive dream is not dead. It’s not doing so well 
either, but it’s hardly the conservative utopia (or dystopia?) head-lines on your Facebook feed would lead you to believe. Fear-mongering works both ways in the political realm, as well as the 
journalistic one.Far from peace in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
“We must think differently, look 
at things in a different way. Peace requires a world of new concepts, new definitions.” — Yitzhak Rabin
 A few days ago, 100,000 people gathered on 
Rabin Square in Tel Aviv  along with President Bill Clinton and a message from President Obama to commemorate the life and legacy of Yitzhak Rabin, who was the prime minister of Israel from 1974-1977 and again from 1992 until his assassina-tion at a peace rally in 1995. Last night, students from J Street U gathered on the Plaza of the Americas to discuss similar topics and added a crucial question: How can we move for-
ward with peace?
Rabin is an interesting figure in the Israeli-Palestinian 
peace process because he was assassinated by a radical right-
wing Orthodox Jew who opposed the Oslo Accords, which was the peace process Rabin had been working on to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  At a time when we are far from peace, and with so much violence right now, it is important to reflect on the point when we were closest to peace, how far we’ve come since then and what we can do to bring us closer 
to a resolution of this conflict.
Rabin is most notable for his work on the Oslo Accords, 
which outlined step-by-step measures to ultimately build trust 
and partnership and end the conflict through a two-state solu-tion. However, since Rabin’s death, Israel has faced a number of internal and external challenges: the Second Intifada, or Uprising, which was a period of violent upheaval and ter-rorism in the early 2000s; a war with Hezbollah in Lebanon; three military escalations with Hamas militants in Gaza; an 
increase in settlements in the West Bank, which has resulted 
in almost twice as many Israeli settlers; an increasingly pow-erful and dominant Israeli political right  and cycle after cycle of violence and tension between Israelis and Palestinians. What we don’t have is peace. 
I’ve been in Israel during a conflict. I studied abroad in 
Tel Aviv during Operation Protective Edge in 2014, the latest round of intense fighting between the Israel Defense Forces and Hamas militants in Gaza. In some ways, my life during the war was astonishingly normal. I still went to class, I still went to the beach, I still uti-lized public transportation and I stayed there will-ingly despite being pressured to evacuate. In other 
ways, war is as pervasive as one would imagine. 
People talked about death, bombs, tension and their fear of the “other side” endlessly. 
They self-segregated based on religion and eth-
nicity and treated their once-innocuous peers as threats. That was the hardest part, even more than 
turning 20 in a bomb shelter, or watching hundreds of peo-ple run to limited shelter on the crowded beach or worrying about my cousin in the IDF. It was a constant reminder that 
in those 49 days, we were as far from peace as we possibly 
could have been.
Though it might seem strange for me to use “we” rather 
than “they,” I do so because as an American, as a Jew and as someone who cares about human rights, I am deeply invested in actualizing peace in Israel and Palestine. If we care about the continued existence of the State of Israel, we can’t afford to be apathetic. If we care about the right to self-determina-tion for Palestinians, we can’t afford to be apathetic. If we 
believe the relationship between Israel and the U.S. creates 
both power and responsibility for all of us to act to end this conflict, we can’t afford to be apathetic. 
Yitzhak Rabin was crucially important in the history of 
this conflict.  He understood that the conflict is detrimental to the future security and self-determination of both Israelis and Palestinians and acted boldly to try to implement change. Yitzhak Rabin, a lifelong military man, understood that mili-tary force is never going to equate with legitimate peace. He 
also wasn’t, and isn’t, alone. I know by working with J Street 
U and fighting for a peaceful, diplomatic solution to the Israe-li-Palestinian conflict via a two-state solution, I honor Rabin’s legacy. I do this for the Jewish community I come from and for the Israel I care about because I believe that a 68-year-long occupation is both untenable and unjust.  
Lane Sheldon is a UF English and political science senior.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Lane Sheldon
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
On Monday, a fellow 
opinion columnist 
wrote about how he 
felt Ann Coulter should 
be a guest speaker on 
campus. While I would concede 
there is a need for more conser -
vative speakers, I could not dis -
agree more. Coulter is the last 
conservative speaker we need.  
Coulter has produced so much politi -
cal controversy over the years it is nearly 
impossible to just pick a single quote or 
situation. For the sake of time and column 
space, we can focus on one of her most 
well-known qualities, namely, her xeno -
phobic and racist remarks. The previous 
column mentioned how those words were 
thrown around too much in media, and 
sometimes they may be; but if it waddles 
and quacks like a duck, it is probably a 
duck.
Let’s start with a tweet from Monday, 
wherein Coulter linked an article from The 
New York Times citing a study on the rise 
in death rates for middle-aged white Amer -
icans with only high school educations. 
The researchers did not have a definitive 
answer to why this is, but they argued it 
is most likely a mix of financial instability 
and increased drug use. But Coulter, in her 
infinite wisdom, had a simpler answer: It 
was immigrants who caused the economic 
strife in this group by stealing their jobs.
During the second Republican presiden -
tial debate, Coulter live-tweeted through -
out the event but started to get fed up with 
candidates talking about Israel. She wrote 
a tweet utilizing the F-bomb while asking 
how many Jews were in this country. Coul -
ter did not apologize for that tweet and ac -
tually defended it.
And let’s top it off with this almost 
“Onion”-like blog post about soccer. “Any 
growing interest in soccer can only be 
a sign of the nation’s moral decay.” In a 
follow-up post where she criticized those 
who would dare criticize her, she said the 
only real risk of death in a soccer game was 
when “some Third World peasant goes on 
a murderous rampage after a bad call.”
This is not political correctness run amuck: This is calling a xeno -
phobe a xenophobe when he or 
she espouses xenophobic rheto -
ric. The cognitive dissonance is 
almost ironic. If Coulter is meant 
to be a provocateur, a title of -
ten attributed to her, than she 
should get used to the “liberal 
media” criticizing her. In truth, 
that’s how she makes a living. 
When she is provocative she gets airtime 
on news networks, her books go to the top 
of The New York Times bestseller list and 
she gets invited to universities. It should 
come as no surprise that I actually found 
my fellow columnist’s article on Coulter’s 
Twitter when I was doing my research.
This is someone who does not need to 
be anywhere close to our campus. This is 
someone who profits on divisiveness and 
hate, a massive contrast to our speak -
ers like Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Jim 
Obergefell. Both of these men created 
change in this country not by dividing and 
conquering but by uniting and fighting on 
behalf of equal rights for the many. Yes, at -
tending a university is about learning and 
understanding different points of view, but 
those points of view ought to be well in -
formed and geared toward actually garner -
ing constructive discussion. What it should 
not turn into is a rendition of Monty Py -
thon’s “Argument Department.”
UF does need more conservative speak -
ers to come to campus, but ones with 
whom we can actually have a fruitful dis -
cussion with regarding their experiences 
and their beliefs. People like former Speak -
er of the House John Boehner, either one 
of the Bush presidents, former Secretary 
of State Condoleezza Rice, Colin Powell, 
Charles Krauthammer, Newt Gingrich or 
even Bill O’Reilly and the cartoonish cav -
alcade of candidates running for president 
would make for better options (You’re 
welcome, Accent). I may not agree with 
the policy decisions or beliefs held by the 
people listed above, but at least they would 
have more to talk about than just the evils 
of soccer.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thursdays. Ann Coulter should not speak at UFColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org Earlier last month, the first 
of the Democratic Party 
debates for the 2016 U.S. 
presidential election com -
menced in Las Vegas, Ne -
vada, broadcast on CNN with 
Anderson Cooper as the modera -
tor.
As far as presidential debates 
go, it’s conventional to hear hol -
low rhetoric without substance; 
in all fairness, with short time limits and so 
many topics to go over, it’s quite difficult 
to do anything other than that in televised 
debates.
Perhaps that’s one of the ills of using a 
technology in which we can only hear frag -
mented sound bites of what aspiring leaders 
would supposedly like to do.
This column’s purpose is not to critique 
one candidate or advocate for another, but 
to critique what was not said and brushed 
over  — namely, the disparities of the crimi -
nal punishment system along lines of race.
Most of the candidates held criticisms of 
the system, positing the U.S. has a criminal -
ly large prison population and most of the 
growth in recent decades has been attribut -
ed to increased police surveillance in com -
munities of color as a product of the war on 
drugs initiated by the Nixon administration. 
There is also a disproportionate number 
of people of color landing in prisons and 
jails due to the legalized measures of man -
datory minimum sentences associated with 
nonviolent drug offenses in many states.
To provide some context, the U.S. has 5 
percent of the world’s population while it 
has 25 percent of the world’s prison popu -
lation. For more staggering statistics, more 
than 60 percent of U.S. prisoners are people 
of color, one in three black men will experi -
ence imprisonment at some point in his life 
and women are the fastest growing portion 
of the prison population, and two-thirds of 
them are women of color.
The candidates at the debate called 
the system defunct and in need of reform. 
They’re certainly correct in their declara -tions, as prisons have developed 
into a major institution that is not 
a vehicle of preventing crime but 
rather a vehicle for criminalizing 
poor people and people of color.
Prisons have been preserved 
as a substitute for increasing pub -
lic infrastructure, funding public 
schools and addressing public 
health. A bill approved in the 
Florida Senate Criminal Justice 
Committee earlier last month would allow 
judges, of their own volition, to give drug 
offenders lighter sentences than the well-
established mandatory minimums if passed.
It brings into question if reforming pris -
ons is enough. I doubt it. 
There is more at work than harsh sen -
tencing laws for nonviolent crimes, which 
was scarcely mentioned in the debate. Many 
drug offenses are felonies, and depending 
on what state one is in, one can be barred 
from public housing and welfare benefits, as 
well as be discriminated against when ap -
plying for employment and disenfranchised 
from voting.
As of 2004, more black men were denied 
the right to vote than in 1870, the year the 
15th amendment was ratified, said Michelle 
Alexander, the author of “The New Jim 
Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Col -
orblindness.”
The 15th amendment prohibits any law 
that denies someone suffrage on the basis 
of race.
During the debate, candidates were giv -
en this question: Do black lives matter, or 
do all lives matter?
The candidates almost reached the con -
sensus that black lives matter. If they’re 
genuine with that assertion, they need to 
look at how laws that land poor people and 
people of color in prison at grotesque rates 
decrease the chances for these individuals 
to enjoy happy, fulfilled lives.
We need to reassess how we conduct our 
judicial system, as well as our prisons.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Thursdays.Democratic debate ignores the 
management of mass incarcerationColumn
Aubrey 
Krampert
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
Rachel Johansson (left), a 19-year-old UF microbiology sophomore, 
and Daniel Boling, a 21-year-old UF industrial engineering senior, cling to each other for balance during a competitive three-legged race. The Homecoming Olympic Games featured a human-pyramid race, a wa-ter ﬂ  ip cup challenge, volleyball pong and a decibel level challenge.
On Hume Field, 14 sororities and 14 fraternities gathered to compete in the Homecoming Olym-pic Games on Wednesday. Gators March for Babies hosted the event to raise funds for March of Dimes and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Shands Hospital. They raised about $2,000.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Race to the finish
RIGHT:
McKinley Stephens, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior, attends the Homecoming Olympic Games with the Delta Zeta mascot, a turtle, shaved into his head. Fraternities and sorori-ties paired up into teams before the competition started on Wednesday. “I gotta represent for the lovely ladies, ” said Ste-phens about his shaved head.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
RIGHT:
Jake McVeagh, a 22-year-old chemical engineering ﬁ  fth-year, ﬂ  ips a red solo cup upside down after emptying the water it held. McVeagh was in a relay line against another fraternity. “My hype level is pretty good right now, ” he said.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
BELOW:
Ross Hughes (left), a 19-year-old UF political science sophomore, shows up to Hume Field wearing an American ﬂ  ag to represent his team’s theme. Hughes, a member of the Theta Chi fraternity, paired with the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. He said he was the best dressed on the team.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.
Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Local musician to make waves nationally
Read Danny Pynes’ story on page 13.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 11.
Catch up on T.I. ’s greatest hits for Homecoming, pg 12.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
As rhythm guitarist and back -
up singer in the genre-bending 
rock powerhouse My Chemical 
Romance, Frank Iero toured the 
world and helped craft two cer -
tified platinum albums. Now, his 
latest project, frnkiero andthe 
cellabration, is headlining shows 
across the U.S.
The artist will perform Satur -
day at High Dive, located at 210 
SW Second Ave. Doors open at 
8 p.m., and the show begins at 9 
p.m. Tickets are available for $18 
at the door or for $15 in advance 
on ticketfly.com.
With this being frnkiero an -
dthe cellabration’s first show in 
Gainesville — and with his re -
spect for the Gainesville music 
scene — he’s more than ready to 
play at High Dive.
“There’s a very special type of 
community and scene down there 
that I’m very much looking for -
ward to playing to,” Iero said. “I 
got very excited when I heard that 
we were gonna be in Gainesville 
on this trip.”
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, wrote in an email 
that High Dive has been getting 
emails and calls about the upcom -
ing show “on a more-than-regular 
basis.” 
High Dive is “stoked about it 
too,” he said, and he noted Iero 
is a first-class musician and an 
icon for millions of fans across 
the world.
“He is more than just ‘the 
guitarist from My Chemical Ro -
mance,’” Lavery said. He de -
scribed Iero’s new band and 
music as super catchy, crunchy, 
poppy and angtsy.
“It’s what you would expect 
from someone with his pedigree, 
but it’s simultaneously fresh and 
original,” he said.
“Stomachaches,” his first solo 
album, was released on Staple Re -
cords in August 2014. 
The album draws its title from 
the fact that he has a bacterial 
overgrowth in his lower intes -
tines that can cause painful diges -
tive issues.
“I forced myself to be creative 
in order to not feel the way I felt 
physically,” Iero said, “and never imagined it would ever see the 
light of day.”
With no intent on releasing his 
new project, he set out to docu -
ment a certain time in his life. He 
thought he would possibly share 
the music with his kids 20 years 
down the road.
He said he would write what -
ever kind of song he felt like 
writing that day, with no specific 
measure for what they needed to 
be. 
The result is an extremely var -
ied group of songs that are as in-
the-moment and pure as possible.
 “I didn’t want to f--k with 
them (the songs) at all,” Iero 
said.
A friend, who he happened to 
let hear the project, convinced 
him to show it to other people.
“And that was it,” Iero said. 
“All of the sudden, before I knew it, like you know, people are in -
terested and there was a record 
deal in place, and I had to, like, 
kind of figure out how I was go -
ing to play these songs live.”
It was a jump going from a 
project he created just for himself 
to crafting something to perform 
on a larger scale — something he 
is still coming to grips with.
“It’s also pretty nuts to go out 
with, you know, just one record 
and do a headlining set,” Iero 
said, “because you know there’s 
only so much you can play.”
The band will play every track 
on its first album, which is some -
thing Iero said he loves to do. 
Fans are not just hearing a 
live version of the record being 
played every night. 
With a full band behind him 
now, his music is still growing — 
a stark contrast from his former band that ended with four studio 
albums.
Although the tour is just get -
ting started, he said the first show 
was one of the most fun shows he 
has played in a very long time.
“Seriously,” he said, giving 
praise to singer-songwriter Rog -
er Harvey and Jared Hart of the 
Scandals, the acts he is on tour 
and shares a bus with.
Harvey and Hart were both re -
cently in town performing in The 
Fest.
Iero admits he was kind of 
jealous of that. 
He said at least they’re all 
coming back together.
Iero said both of their acts are 
fantastic and the fans on this tour 
have been unbelievable.
“It’s really nice to be out with 
bands that you love, and playing 
to people that really appreciate it and that make it worthwhile,” 
Iero said.
When a major band like My 
Chemical Romance disassembles, 
it can be difficult for the indi -
vidual members to stand on their 
own in the shadow of their for -
mer group. 
Whether this is the case for 
Iero or not, he has managed to 
take something he created for 
himself in the dark and has found 
the right way to bring it to light.
“But now that we’re doing it, 
it’s really unlike anything else, 
and it’s a fun time.” Iero said. 
“Sometimes you kind of, like, 
have to take a step back and 
pinch yourself and be like, ‘Oh, 
wow. This really, this is really it, 
huh?’”
When reflecting on his current 
situation, Iero had one comment:
 “It’s f----n’ awesome.”Frank Iero to bring latest project to High Dive Saturday
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Former My Chemical Romance guitarist Frank Iero’s latest project, frnkiero andthe cellabration, is coming to perform Saturday at 
High Dive. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 9 p.m.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
@jack__dasilva
French Montana and Fetty Wap
“Coke Zoo” - Oct. 26
Fetty Wap and French Montana’s “Coke 
Zoo” collaboration mixtape, released Oct. 
26, seemed sort of random to me. While 
the rappers haven’t really worked togeth -
er, they still decided to team up for a joint 
mixtape. The mixtape is 13 songs in length, 
with features from Monty, Chris Brown, Puff 
Daddy and Nitt Da Gritt. “Coke Zoo” has a 
few gems but isn’t anything to write home 
about.
Kirk Knight
“Late Knight Special” - Oct. 30
Kirk Knight released his debut album 
“Late Knight Special” Friday. Knight is 
a member of the Brooklyn-based, exten -
sive underground-rap group Pro Era. “Late 
Knight Special” has 12 songs and is about 45 
minutes long. This album has several fea -
tures coming from fellow Pro Era member 
Joey Bada$$, as well as a few other popular 
underground artists, such as Mick Jenkins 
and Noname Gypsy. Knight nearly produced 
the entire album himself with the excep -
tion of co-production with ThemPeople on a couple of songs. With Knight’s “Late Knight 
Special,” Pro Era proves to be one of the 
most talented rap collectives in the game to -
day. Definitely give this album a listen.
J Dilla
“Dillatronic” - Oct. 30
J Dilla’s posthumous album “Dillatronic” 
was released Friday by his mother and Vin -
tage Vibez Music Group. Produced by the 
Detroit, Michigan, legend, “Dillatronic” is a 
collection of 41 rare and never-before-heard 
instrumentals, ranging from 19 seconds to 
more than three minutes in length. 
If you’re into old-school hip-hop, you’ll 
appreciate this album — but besides the 
sentimental value, there isn’t much more to 
“Dillatronic” besides listening to it as back -
ground music.
D12
“The Devil’s Night” Mixtape - Oct. 30
The Dirty Dozen, also known as D12, 
released their long-awaited mixtape “The 
Devil’s Night” Friday. D12 is a hip-hop 
group from Detroit, Michigan, that formed 
in 1996. Its members include Eminem, Bi -
zarre, Kuniva, Fuzz Scoota, Swifty McVay 
and Kon Artis. Fans of D12 had looked for -
ward to this mixtape for quite some time, 
and D12 continues to show, even after about 20 years in the game, they can still put out a 
quality project. 
“The Devil’s Night” contains 15 songs 
and features King Gordy, Royce da 5’9” and 
G-Unit’s Kidd Kidd, as well as an appear -
ance from Eminem.
Young Thug
“Slime Season 2” - Oct. 31
While most UF students tailgated at 
the Florida vs. Georgia game on Saturday, 
Young Thug dropped “Slime Season 2,” his 
sequel mixtape to “Slime Season.” 
While many of us really looked forward 
to Young Thug and Migos’ joint mixtape, 
“Migos Thuggin,” that was supposed to be 
released on Halloween as well, any new mu -
sic from Thugger is always welcome. 
Thug has a handful of features with ap -
pearances from Rich Homie Quan and Bird -
man, along with production coming from 
the producers he usually works with: Isaac 
Flame, Metro Boomin, London On Da Track, 
TM88, Southside, etc. As a whole, “Slime 
Season 2” is  laid-back compared to Thug’s 
typical work.
Lloyd Banks
“Halloween Havoc 2” - Nov. 1
G-Unit rapper Lloyd Banks released his 
mixtape “Halloween Havoc 2” on Sunday. The mixtape is a followup to his tape, “Hal -
loween Havoc,” which was released around 
the same time in 2008. 
Although I am entirely against hip-hop 
purists, this mixtape is for true hip-hop fans. 
Banks’ tape has that old-school rap style and 
should hold over his fans until the release of 
“The Cold Corner 3.”
Puff Daddy
“MMM” - Nov. 4
Yesterday was Diddy’s birthday and to 
celebrate he released a new mixtape titled 
“MMM.” 
Diddy released the mixtape under his old 
stage name Puff Daddy. “MMM” stands for 
“Money Making Mitch” and was supposed 
to come out in 2014 but kept getting pushed 
back until now. 
The mixtape features several notable art -
ists including Jadakiss, Pusha T, Lil Kim, 
King Los, Future, French Montana, Big Sean, 
Travi$ Scott, Ty Dolla $ign and more. Puff 
Daddy announced that “MMM” would be re -
leased early Wednesday morning with an In -
stagram post and dropped it later in the day.
 Diddy has been making music for over 
20 years, but it’s been a while since we’ve 
had a new Puff Daddy mixtape or album so 
definitely check out this new project from 
the hip-hop legend.RAP ROUNDUP: THE LATEST IN HIP-HOP ff the Record
 MEDIOCRE ADVICEJames Franco’s IMDB and RA Advice
Columnists’ note: Hey, T.I., I know 
you’re coming tomorrow for Gator 
Growl, and you insist on “no mediocre” 
and that you “don’t want no medio -
cre.” 
But guess what? You don’t control 
me. Mediocre Advice is a movement, 
and you can expect a STRONGLY 
WORDED EMAIL from me imminently.
- S. Moskovitz
Dear Mediocre Advice,
What do I do when there are multiple 
girls I’m putting in work with at the 
same place (FLA/GA)?
- Jason
Girls know everything. Even if you 
ditch one of them to go to “the in -
terview” you made up, they’ll know 
you’re bailing. 
Seriously, you can be as savage 
as Alien from “Spring Breakers” and 
as duplicitous as the Green Goblin, 
but your girls will always know what 
you’re up to. This is why you need to do the last thing these girls 
expect — no, don’t tell them 
you’re gay like Scott Smith 
from “Milk” — introduce 
them to each other. 
Each girl will think she’s 
the one and you’re prov -
ing to her that the other girl 
isn’t competition. However, 
if they find out about each other, you 
have 127 hours to choose one of them. 
If you keep playing them, I can assure 
you that this is the end for your ass, 
and you’ll be left sitting on the couch 
being a flyboy, getting high, smoking 
on that pineapple express watching 
“Freaks and Geeks.” 
You may be able to win one of them 
back saying you’ll be the Tristan to her 
Isolde, but send that text to both girls 
and their friends will be going more 
crazy on you than the primates from 
“Planet of the Apes.” 
Or just tell them you’re James Fran -
co. That’s what I do and it works every 
time. True story.What do I do if my pet 
rock cannot find a soul mate?
- Anonymous
Is your rock a boy rock 
or a girl rock? See, it’s funny 
because if it’s a boy rock try -
ing to find a girl rock then 
he doesn’t need to look far. 
That’s because if there’s 
anything I’ve found search -
ing for love, it’s that girls are like rocks: 
They’re cold, they hurt when they hit 
you in the head, they ruin shoes daily 
and everybody yells at you when you 
throw them.
How early is too early in the semes -
ter to start having “extracurricular rela -
tions” with my RA? I really just want to 
ride his RTS.
- Anonymous
Oh baby… I’m sure your RA has al -
ready ridden the 120 all up and down 
Fraternity Row, if ya know what I’m 
sayin’. Sorry ‘bout that. I couldn’t re -
sist. But it’s never too early to start making moves on your RA. Why? Well, 
you have to operate under a few pre -
suppositions. 
The first, is that he’s an RA and prob -
ably doesn’t have any friends because 
he still lives in a dorm. The second, is 
that he’s an RA and probably doesn’t 
have any friends because he still lives 
in a dorm. 
Like most people with lonesome 
lives, RAs crave intimacy and adven -
ture. That’s where you come in. 
Tell them to pack up their drawstring 
backpack, put on their nicest IRHA shirt 
and get ready to go for a ride. That’s 
right, because you guys are about to 
take the 34 allllll the wayyyyyy… to 
Lexington Crossing.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. His column appears in the 
Avenue section on Thursdays. If you 
have any questions you would like 
to see answered in the weeks ahead, 
please email them to mediocre.alligator.
advice@gmail.com.
Simon Moskovitz
Avenue WriterBy Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Local social media presence Ken 
Peng has reached a level of stardom in 
Gainesville with his various social me -
dia pages, including blogs and more 
recently his Facebook page “McEl -
wainisms.”
The page is dedicated to Coach 
Mac’s infamous thought-to-speech 
one-liners and has a current follow -
ing of more than 2,000 fans. One of 
his most popular posts was after the 
NCAA suspension of starting quarter -
back Will Grier. 
The photo was the popular image 
from “The Lion King” of Simba and Mufasa looking over Pride Rock.
The meme read:
“Coach Mac, what’s that shadowy 
place over there?”
“Will, that’s Complete Nutrition at 
Oaks Mall. You must never go there.”
Peng, 29, works a 9-to-5 in finance. 
He remains connected to Gainesville 
with his social media outlets, most no -
tably with his popular restaurant cri -
tique-style blog Ken Eats Gainesville, 
which he started about two years ago. 
Peng, who enjoyed traveling and im -
mersing himself in culture via cuisine 
growing up, noted there were no true 
food publications in Gainesville. He 
decided to devour his way through the 
task of reviewing eateries in the ‘Ville.But don’t call him a “foodie.”
“Ironically enough, I hate the word 
‘foodie,’” Peng said. “Who doesn’t 
love food? If you didn’t love food, 
you’d die!”
Peng says Ken Eats Gainesville is 
about directing attention to the vast 
food culture in Gainesville and telling 
the truth about what a person can ex -
pect when he or she decides to wine 
and dine at a local eatery.
Students like Lena Polejaeva, 27, 
are also interested in the food culture 
in Gainesville.
“I’m still testing out the food 
scene,” the doctoral candidate said. “It 
seems like there are a lot of barbecue 
and Southern style options out there, 
but I haven’t explored those yet.”
Peng finds fascination in food, and 
after gaining popularity with local res -
taurants, he insists on remaining as 
unbiased as possible when reviewing 
different places.
“I have people try to give me free 
stuff,” he said, “but I operate under a 
very strict code that I have personally 
because I want to keep this honest.”
His honesty has certainly paved the 
way for a lot of people who support his 
humor and love of football.
“I’m a huge football fan,” Peng said.
He has always wanted to run a foot -
ball-related blog and after watching a 
few interviews Coach Mac gave after 
being hired last December, Peng knew 
he would have a hit with McElwain -
isms.
“The page practically writes itself,” 
Peng said. “This guy is kind of hilari -
ous.”
How was he so successful in build -
ing a following? Peng answers, there is 
no secret.
“I write now the same way that I 
was writing when I first started out,” 
Peng said. “You just do it.”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Local social media star Ken Peng, mostly known for his Ken Eats 
Gainesville blog, recently began the McElwainisms Facebook page.
Ken Peng starts McElwainisms page
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
@jack__dasilva
T.I. has been one of the 
most consistent, successful 
and influential rappers of the 
past 15 years. The rapper — 
who officially changed his 
stage name to Tip in Septem -
ber with the release of his 
extended play “Da Nic” — is 
this year’s Gator Growl-head -
lining act. 
In the spirit of Homecom -
ing, I rounded up some of 
Tip’s best songs (in no or -
der) that’ll be sure to get you 
ready for Gator Growl 2015.
Song: “Whatever You 
Like”
Album: “Paper Trail”
Ranked as the 16th-most-
successful song of the decade 
in 2009 by Billboard, “What -
ever You Like” was the lead 
single off Tip’s album “Paper 
Trail.” 
“Whatever You Like” is a 
classic song that almost ev -
eryone knows and is going to 
be great live.
Song: “Live Your Life”
Album: “Paper Trail”
“Paper Trail” is full of hits, 
and “Live Your Life” is anoth -
er example of how great this 
album is. 
The song features Rihanna 
and broke the first-week-dig -
ital-sales record when it was 
released with 335,000 down -
loads.
Song: “Swagga Like Us”
Album: “Paper Trail”
As one of the eight singles 
from “Paper Trail,” “Swagga 
Like Us” is one of the dopest 
songs ever. The song features 
the G.O.A.T., Kanye West, as 
well as Jay-Z and Lil Wayne. 
With M.I.A.’s sample and fea -
tures from three of the best 
rappers to ever do it, “Swagga 
Like Us” sure is full of swag -
ger.
Song: “Dead and Gone”
Album: “Paper Trail”
With “Paper Trail,” Tip ba -
sically lived on the Billboard 
Top 200 in 2008. Tip kept it 
real on “Dead and Gone,” and 
getting Justin Timberlake on 
the song showed Tip’s versa -
tility.
Song: “About the Money”
Album: “Paperwork”
Possibly the best song of 
2014 and maybe the biggest 
banger of the past few years, 
“About the Money” is another 
T.I. masterpiece. 
His dope verses mix per -
fectly with Young Thug’s 
bridge and hook. A year and 
a half later, “About the Mon -
ey” can be heard almost any -
where you go and is guaran -
teed to get Gator Growl lit.Song: “That’s All She 
Wrote”
Album: “No Mercy”
To this day, “That’s All 
She Wrote” featuring Eminem 
is one of the most fluid songs 
I’ve ever heard. Without miss -
ing a beat, the two legendary 
rappers going back and forth 
over the awesome instrumen -
tal is simply captivating.
Song: “What You Know”
Album: “King”
Tip made one of the most 
recognizable songs in hip-hop 
with “What You Know.” De -
spite coming out in 2006, it 
seems like almost everyone 
still knows the hook word for 
word. This song still gives me 
chills, and we can only hope 
that it’s on the setlist for Tip’s 
performance at Gator Growl 
this year.
BONUS: Best Features
Song: “Ain’t I”
Artist: Yung L.A.
“Ain’t I” is probably Yung 
L.A.’s biggest song that was 
released in 2008 and features 
both T.I. and Young Dro. 
“Ain’t I” is still a good song, 
but talk about Throwback 
Thursday.
Song: “Fancy”
Artist: Drake
Tip teamed up with Drizzy 
and Swizz Beatz in 2010 to 
make “Fancy,” which still has 
one of my favorite Tip verses.
Song: “Magic”
Artist: Future
Before Future completely 
dominated the rap game, 
he was making noise with 
bangers here and there, and 
the remix to “Magic” was 
definitely one of those tracks. 
The styles of the two Atlanta 
rappers blend together per -
fectly, and the remix to “Mag -
ic” is basically an American 
treasure.
Song: “Upper Echelon”
Artist: Travi$ Scott
Tip signed Travi$ Scott to 
his label, Grand Hustle, in 
2013, and La Flame has been 
one of the best new artists 
since then. T.I. jumped on his 
artist’s track “Upper Echelon” 
along with 2 Chainz, and all 
three rappers snapped.
Song: “Blurred Lines”
Artist: Robin Thicke
Besides the song’s con -
troversial subject matter and 
lengthy Marvin Gaye law -
suit, “Blurred Lines” was an 
extremely successful song. It 
was the second-most-played 
song of 2013 and topped the 
Billboard Hot 100 in the U.S. 
for 12 consecutive weeks, 
placed in the top 10 charts 
in 17 countries and reached 
more than 242 million listen -
ers over the radio, according 
to Interscope Records.ff the RecordMcElwainisms writer 
talks social media, food
Peng talks social media
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer 
There’s a new pregnant virgin in 
town, and it’s not Mary.
CW’s “Jane the Virgin” premiered 
October 2014 and, since then, it’s 
been praised by fans and critics alike.
Jane Villanueva (Gina Rodriguez) 
is a 23-year-old Hispanic girl going 
to college while living in Miami with 
her mom Xiomara (Andrea Navedo) 
and grandmother Alba (Ivonne Coll). 
Jane had promised her grandmother 
she would wait until marriage to have 
sex to avoid being a struggling teen -
age mother like her own mom. How -
ever, that all ends when she goes to 
her gynecologist for a pap smear and 
instead accidentally gets artificially 
inseminated.
From the pilot, you’ll get hooked 
because there are other storylines 
that are just as intriguing. For one, 
the guy whose sperm Jane gets inject -
ed with happens to be the owner of 
Marbella, the hotel where she works 
as a waitress, and the gynecologist is his sister. Meanwhile, there is a killer 
on the loose who keeps targeting the 
Marbella, and Jane’s current long-
term boyfriend is a cop who’s trying 
to unravel the mystery.
If it sounds like a “telenovela,” 
that’s because it’s supposed to. The 
creators were loosely inspired by 
Venezuelan show “Juana la Virgen,” 
but they adapted it to a satirical dram -
edy with telenovela moments and 
instances that poke fun at telenove -
las. Although it has certain elaborate 
moments, the show is oddly refresh -
ing with a quirky cast and and a fun 
color scheme.
I’m not usually a fan of cheesy 
TV shows, which is what I thought 
of “Jane the Virgin” before I watched 
it. But it has the perfect balance of 
drama, comedy and wit, and Golden 
Globe-winning actress Rodriguez 
makes Jane a strong young woman 
with aspirations that I find myself re -
lating to.Take a sip when...
• Jane’s grandma speaks 
Spanish
• A flashback occurs
• Rogelio says something 
super conceited
• You’re reminded Jane is 
a pregnant virgin
Take a shot when...
• Jane meets her dad
• You want to punch Petra
• Rafael finds out Jane is 
a virgin
• Jane finds out she’s 
pregnant
Finish your drink 
when...
• Someone dies
• You find out who Sin 
Rostro is
• A fan of Jane shows up 
asking for a hug or a 
miracle
• The baby is bornT.I. HEADLINES GATOR GROWLBy Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
Danny Pynes is keeping the party going af -
ter Gator Growl. 
The local musician, formerly D.P., is per -
forming an album release show at 8 p.m. on 
Friday at The Wooly, located at 20 N. Main St. 
Tickets are available at thewoolygainesville.
com for $8 or $10 at the door.
“The End of Times” is being released after a 
transitional period for the artist.
“It’s definitely an album about metamor -
phosis,” the musician said.
Pynes was born and raised in Gainesville. 
The musician was “raised on Johnny Cash 
and trained in classical music,” according to 
his website. His surroundings influenced him 
to begin writing and playing music at a young 
age.
“I grew up listening to hard rock, old coun -
try and hip-hop, and I think all of those influ -
ences appear in my music when you listen to 
it,” he said.
They do.
While Pynes’ music can be considered hip-
hop, it is free of computerized beats or auto -
tune, something that is common in popular 
hip-hop today. Pynes incorporates a live band 
in his songs, making it acoustic and what he 
refers to as Americana hip-hop.
“As I started going further in the music ca -
reer I wanted to bring more of those live ele -
ments into music than what you normally find 
in hip-hop,” he said. “Over time I started in -
corporating live drums, live guitar (and) live 
bass.”
Pynes used to release albums under D.P., 
but he rebranded and is releasing his new al -
bum as a debut from Danny Pynes. This al -
lowed him to get a fresh look on how he want -ed to present himself artistically, he said.
“I just felt it was time to have a clean slate 
and that can be liberating sometimes,” he said.
When making “The End of Times,” Pynes 
said he recruited friends he’s known for years 
to come together and help him “take his vision 
and put it down into something concrete.”
With this album, Pynes was able to handle 
being a producer, songwriter, performer and 
even video director, according to the website. 
His recent music video for the song “California 
Kills” premiered Tuesday on Uproxx.“The End of Times” was inspired by an 
emotional period in the musician’s life where 
he dealt with personal loss.
“The record deals a lot with loss and change 
and being in a pivotal point in your life when 
one chapter’s closing and another one’s open -
ing,” he said. “I think it’s something most peo -
ple can relate to… I mean we all go through 
different stages in life and we become different 
people. We change and we grow.”
Twenty-one-year-old Katie Woody, an inte -
rior design freshman at UF, discovered Pynes when he left his demo in her car.
“I popped it into my CD player and abso -
lutely loved it,” Woody said. “It’s a good mix -
ture of different genres of music. It’s different 
from anything else I’ve heard, and I like it. He’s 
very creative.”
Woody usually listens to country, classic 
rock and top 40 hits, but she said listening to 
Pynes’ demo inspired her to start supporting 
Gainesville artists more. Along with local fans, 
Pynes has gained attention all throughout the 
country and all over the world.
“I’m shipping out records right now to peo -
ple that have pre-ordered the album in Japan 
and Switzerland,” Pynes said.
Pynes has spent the last three years touring 
the country and visiting many states, including 
California.
“I think the most exciting place that I’ve 
played at is the Roxy at Sunset Boulevard in 
L.A. just because that place has so much his -
tory,” he said.
The show on Friday is expected to be a 
“killer show,” he said. 
“As much as I love putting together a good 
record, I love putting together a good show just 
as much,” Pynes said.
One of the opening acts for Pynes is local 
soul band The Savants of Soul. UF alum Jus -
tin McKenzie, 26, is a singer for the Savants of 
Soul who has known Pynes since 2009.
“It was pretty sweet actually meeting him 
and seeing how personal and down-to-earth he 
is,” McKenzie said. “I had tons of friends who 
were big fans and turned me on to his music.”
Events like these help musicians like Pynes 
and McKenzie help each other out and get 
known.
“Gainesville is a town that used to be 
known for its music scene,” McKenzie said. “It 
isn’t like how it used to be but we’re working 
on it.”THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Americana hip-hop artist Danny Pynes is hosting an album release show Fri -
day at The Wooly. Doors open at 8 p.m.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Indie rapper Dennis Lee will host a listening party Saturday 
at 8-bit Bar. Doors open at 8 p.m. with a $5 cover at the door.
Local artist Danny Pynes to host album release show
MUSIC
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
A Gainesville rapper will re -
lease tracks from his original al -
bum Saturday night at 8-bit Bar 
at 919 W. University Ave. Dennis 
Walton, 22, will join other musi -
cal performers and dance crews 
to show off their talent and give 
the audience a taste of their latest 
material.
The listening party will be from 
8 p.m. to 2 a.m., and the event is 
free with a $5 cover at the door.
Walton said a listening party is 
“a gathering of the artist’s main 
listeners and his friends, and any -
one willing to check out new ma -
terial and be part of a new wave.”
Walton, whose stage name is 
“Dennis Lee,” said he began his 
musical career almost uninten -
tionally. He said he would help a 
friend go to showcases and per -
form in middle school. From there, 
he found his own voice and he 
started to write poetry and record 
his own music. In high school, the 
rapper said he started to record se -
riously.
He said he has four singles on 
the radio back home in Alabama.
Walton graduated high school 
and moved to Florida. He started college at Santa Fe in October 2014 
and studies business marketing.
His album, “Fine Wine,” cur -
rently has 8 tracks fully mastered, 
but there’s no exact date for the 
fall release of the entire album.
He said he hopes to see about 
50 people attend.
“I prefer to have this event free 
to the public,” he said. “That way 
no one has any excuse as to why 
they couldn’t be a part of it.”
Before the listening party, he 
said he tried to go on tour, so he 
opened up for mainstream artists, 
like Travis Porter, and at Gator 
Stompin’.
His disc jockey, AJ Showell, 25, 
will be there Saturday. His stage 
name is “DJ Shade.” He said he’s 
Walton’s primary DJ for local and 
out-of-town concerts. He said he’s 
been a DJ for 15 years, and he’s 
“extremely self-taught.”
They rehearse together at least 
two to three times per week, for hours at a time. But the most dif -
ficult part, he said, is coordinating 
schedules. 
Showell said he remixes, 
scratches, blends and mixes fol -
lowing Walton’s lead, with no 
“set” way of doing things.
“You have to put all of yourself 
into it or you’re not going to get 
anything out of it,” Showell said 
of the practicing.  
Showell said it cost approxi -
mately $750 to produce the album.
“I’m the first of my sound,” 
Walton said. He said it’s a cross 
between old-school hip hop and 
mainstream.
He and Showell have been to -
gether for just over a year, he said.
After the listening party, he 
hopes to learn from this one, draw 
a bigger crowd and keep the audi -
ence entertained.
The other performances include 
two performers from Georgia and 
two dance crews, Walton said.
The opening act for Walton, 
rapper Blazel, is also local. He 
said he’s going to incorporate the 
arcade, which includes the gaming 
tournament, between his songs.
“Anybody and everybody who 
wants to come out, can come out,” 
Walton said. “They don’t have to 
come out for the hip-hop.”Indie rapper hosts listening party
“I prefer to have this event 
free to the public,” he said. 
“That way no one has 
any excuse as to why they 
couldn’t be a part of it.”
Dennis Walton
rapperTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatest
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Amanda Butler and 
Florida's women's basketball team have been inspired by an unlikely figure: The Notorious B.I.G. Read the story on pg. 18.  By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Sophomore defensive back 
Jalen Tabor isn’t shy about where 
he thinks his standing is in Flori-
da’s secondary.
“Everybody thinks Vernon 
(Hargreaves is) the best, but I feel 
like when I’m on and when I’m 
doing what I got to do, I feel like 
I’m the best,” Tabor said.
That isn’t a slight to Harg-
reaves, whom the sophomore considers a mentor and an inspi-
ration for what he hopes to be-
come as a cornerback.
It simply speaks to the belief 
Tabor has in himself when he’s 
putting in the extra time and ef-
fort and is fully committed.
While having that type of 
dedication might seem like some-thing every player should do, it 
isn’t something Tabor has always 
done.
During his freshman year, 
Tabor didn’t work as hard as he 
could have, relying on his talent 
without putting in the prepara-tion.
It showed in 2014, which was 
filled with flashes of brilliance but 
never consistent, dominating per-
formances like he was capable of producing.
But in 2015, he has evolved 
into one of the best defensive backs in the Southeastern Con-ference, showcasing the ability to shut down receivers and take care of the other side of the field opposite Hargreaves.
While numbers only tell part 
of the story of the impact the defensive back has on a game, through seven games this season 
— he was suspended for the East 
Carolina game — he has already doubled his interception total from last year, going from one to two, and is only one pass break-
up shy of the eight he had in his 
freshman year.
And it’s primarily because 
he has changed the way he ap-
proaches the game, both through 
his time spent working on his craft and limiting distractions.
“Just hanging with the right 
crowd, being grounded, working 
on my game, watching a lot more 
film,” Tabor said. “Being more mature as a whole has just elevat-ed my game.”
His coach has noticed a 
change, too.
“I’ll tell you what, he’s one of 
those guys again that I think has come the farthest and has gotten 
better because of it,” coach Jim 
McElwain said. “Understanding the importance of detail, under-standing the importance of it isn’t 
just rolling the ball out there and 
go play. 
“It’s about studying, it’s about 
perfecting your craft and really how you can affect those around 
you. That guy’s done an unbeliev-
able job.”
He hasn’t been perfect, as his suspension highlights, but the 
sophomore is finally beginning to 
understand the importance of the attention to detail his coach con-stantly emphasizes.
Part of that understanding has 
come from working with Harg-reaves, a consummate profession-al who has worked with Tabor to live up to his potential.
“He stays on me,” Tabor said. “He never lets me just chill 
and relax. If I get a ball thrown on me in practice, he’s livid. He 
sees more in me than I probably see in myself.”
Hargreaves is one of the rea-
sons Tabor chose to come to Flor-
ida.
The sophomore could have 
gone to another school and been the No. 1 guy, or take a back seat to arguably the best defensive back in the country.
But the challenge was some-
thing that excited him.
“Being a good player and be-
ing a competitive player, you want to go with the best players,” 
Tabor said. “That’s only to make you better.”
With Hargreaves likely leav-
ing for the NFL after this season, Tabor is now poised to take over 
that No. 1 corner spot in Florida’s secondary, along with the spot-light.
But for now, Tabor is content 
being the guy opposite Harg-reaves who no one knows — yet.
“That’s why I’m glad I came 
here, just to be alongside him,” 
Tabor said. “Teams talk about 
him and people talk about him. But I’m just a guy in disguise.”
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF football team to appear at Gator Growl
Heading into Florida's Homecoming matchup with Vanderbilt on Satur-
day at noon, the Florida football team and the coaching staff will attend Gator Growl tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. UF softball coach Tim Walton will host while T.I., Echosmith and Jana Kramer will perform on stage. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF cornerback Jalen T abor celebrates with his team following Florida's 61-13 win over New Mexico 
State on Sept. 5 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Gators sophomore cornerback exceeding expectations 
SOCCER
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Seeking to avoid being ousted in the sec-
ond round of the Southeastern Conference 
tournament for the second straight season, the 
Gators found themselves faced with adversity 
just minutes into the match. 
But coach Becky Burleigh’s Florida team 
stayed composed and focused, relying on the 
gameplan that had led them to a regular sea-
son SEC title. 
In the quarterfinal of the SEC Tournament, 
No. 5 Florida (15-3-1, 9-2-1 SEC) rallied from an early deficit to defeat Vanderbilt by a score of 2-1 on Wednesday night in Orange Beach, 
Alabama. 
The Commodores got their first and only 
goal on what seemed to be a miscommunica-
tion on Florida’s back line. 
Senior defenders Claire Falknor and Chris-
ten Westphal had trouble figuring out who’d retrieve a back pass, allowing Vandy’s Simone Charley to take advantage of the situation.
Charley — who had two assists in the reg-
ular season match against UF — made a run for the ball, taking it to the right side of the box and hitting a shot to the far left post. 
The shot deflected off Westphal, prevent-
ing Florida goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese from reading the shot, as she desperately dove to try to save the slow roller, but failed to get a finger on it. 
Charley gave Florida trouble in its regular 
season game on Sept. 25 , and Wednesday night was no different. 
Every time Charley was on or near the 
ball, the Florida defense had to be on its toes, gravitating toward the opponent’s greatest of-fensive threat. 
The goal count would have been much 
greater for the Commodores if a couple of long runs from the Vanderbilt (9-8-4, 4-5-3 SEC)  junior had gone differently.  
“Charley is always going to be a threat be-
cause of that pace,” Burleigh said.
But — despite some threatening runs — 
the Florida defense, led by Falknor, was able to shut her down and prevent her from taking 
over the Gator defensive third.
“She’s a tough player to handle,” Burleigh UF downs Vanderbilt in second round of SEC Tournament
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 19He has two pick-sixes
“Charley is always going to be a threat 
because of that pace.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
In her first year with the Florida 
women’s basketball program, as-
sistant coach Shimmy Gray-Miller 
is turning to an unlikely source to 
inspire her unit of forwards and centers. 
The Notorious B.I.G., also 
known as Biggie Smalls, has him-self become the moniker of the five forwards and centers because, according to them, his oxymoron of a name accurately describes the 
players within the unit. 
“That’s our Biggie Smalls 
group. We’re big and small,” ju-
nior forward Ronni Williams, who 
at 6-feet tall is one of the shorter 
front-court players on the team, said. 
“We got me and Carla who are 
the two smallest of the group and 
then you have Haley (Lorenzen), 
Ty (Fleming) and Vikta (Dimaite) who are the big ones of the group.” 
Not only has the name Biggie 
Smalls the unit, but so have some of the lyrics to one of his most fa-mous songs. 
“Sicker than your average” 
is the opening line to the classic 
“Hypnotize,” and the group has 
adopted that line as its slogan, going so far as emblazoning it on their matching t-shirts. 
“Sicker than your average, so 
that’s our line because we always just wanna be the most consistent of the group,” sophomore forward 
Haley Lorenzen said. 
“People always try to be consis-
tent, people always try to be just 
average and we’re gonna be sicker than everybody else. Sicker not as 
in like cough cough — sicker as in, 
like, the best of the best.”
In their efforts to become “the 
best of the best,” the team has 
been emphasizing competition in 
practice. 
Coincidentally, Lorenzen and 
assistant coach Bill Ferrara both pointed to the same instance 
as the marquee moment of this 
young season, and both felt that it was brought on by the level of competition.
“We were doing end of game 
situations … and what we were doing is we were practicing low shot clock situations and so we just, we made a lot of fun plays 
that day,” Lorenzen said.
“January hit this crazy cor-
ner three, we all ran over, we 
celebrated. Ronni hit a 12-footer 
jumper to win the game and then 
I hit an and-one to win the game. It was just a really fun practice all around.” 
Ferrara said the combination of 
intensity and fun made the prac-tice one of the best of the season 
so far. 
“The best part of it is it was 
several days mixed in practice and 
then this was like boom, like a hammer,” he said. 
“The energy and enthusiasm 
was through the roof as well and so that’s what made it the best practice of the year.”
Williams, who figures to be a 
force for the Gators this season 
after leading the team in points 
per game a season ago, said that whether against each other or the practice squad, everyone on the 
team is bringing everything to the 
table every time they hit the floor. 
“When we compete, it’s a 
whole different story,” she said.
“It’s like we’re going against 
enemies. And you know, there are practice players, we thank them, we love them to death, but we take it to ‘em. When it’s time to 
compete, we bring the fight, we 
bring the energy.”
While the team doesn’t open 
the regular season until November 13 at Temple, it’ll get its first taste 
of a new opponent on Friday in an 
exhibition against the No. 19 USF Bulls in Tampa.Florida assistant coach using music legend to inspire team 
Alligator File Photo
UF guard Ronni Williams chases the ball during Florida’s 68-52 
loss to Missouri on Jan. 29 in the O’Connell Center. 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
AIR JORDAN
With a trip to the Southeastern Con-
ference Championship in clear sight, the No. 10 Florida Gators (7-1, 5-1 SEC) host Vanderbilt (3-5, 1-3 SEC) Saturday at noon 
for a homecoming showdown. 
Usually a festive occasion, the Gators 
have been anything but fortunate the last two years, losers of their last two home-coming games, including a 34-17 loss to the Commodores in 2013. 
Here are three things Florida will need 
to do in order to avoid a third consecutive homecoming loss:
1.) Make a big play, and make it 
early
In other words, Florida needs to get An-
tonio Callaway involved from the get-go.
Callaway, the Gators’ phenom freshman 
wideout, has ﬂ  ashed his potential time and 
time again this year.
In eight games, Callaway is averaging 22 
yards per catch, which ranks seventh na-tionally and ﬁ  rst among freshmen.
The rest of the offense, on the other 
hand, is averaging just 11.2 yards per catch.
From his last-second game-winning 
touchdown against Tennessee to his punt return against LSU to his 66-yard touch-down against Georgia last weekend, Calla-
way has proven he can the big play.
“Each week, it’s fun to see what that 
guy does and just the way he goes about 
what he does too,” tight end Jake McGee said. 
“He’s a guy that loves football and loves 
his team. He’s fun to be around and has a 
good energy that he gives off to the guys.”
But Callaway and the Gators’ offense 
will face a tougher test than usual against 
Vanderbilt’s defense.
The Commodores ranks sixth in the SEC 
in yards allowed per game (323.4) and are in the top ﬁ  ve in both rushing defense (fourth, 114.9 yards per game) and scoring defense (ﬁ  fth, 18.5 points per game).
They hold opponents to just 
a 25.2-percent third-down con-version rate — top in the SEC and ﬁ  fth in the country — and have forced 38 three-and-outs this year, tied for third in the conference with Missouri and behind only Florida (42) and Alabama (50).
If UF’s offense can ﬁ  nd a way to make 
a big play early on Saturday, they should have no problem coasting to the ﬁ  nish line.2.) Win the Turnover 
Battle
Florida should have no prob-
lem winning this aspect of the game, but it’s a crucial point nonetheless. The Gators enter the game atop the SEC and are  
second nationally with a +13 
turnover margin, while Vander-bilt ranks last in the conference and is tied for 120th out of 128 teams with a  -11 margin. 
Florida’s defense has forced three op-
ponents to turn the ball over at least three times this year, most recently a ﬁ  ve-turn-over outing by Georgia on Saturday.And the Gators have made the most out 
of their turnovers.
Of the SEC-leading 19 turnovers UF has 
forced, 12 have resulted in touchdowns while a 13th ended in a ﬁ  eld goal.
And while UF’s defensive players said 
they don’t compare stats, being in a group rich in talent makes each player strive to compete on every single down to secure playing time.
“Being a good player and being a com-
petitive player, you want to go with the best players,” said sophomore cornerback Jalen Tabor, who has both of Florida’s pick-sixes 
this year. “That’s only to make you better.”
On the other side of the ball, Vander-
bilt’s offense — which ranks 10th or worse 
in every offensive category this year — has coughed the ball up at least three times on ﬁ  ve occasions, including three of its last four matchups.
With Florida’s ball hawking secondary 
going up against an inexperienced and eas-
ily rattled Vanderbilt offense, expect the 
Gators to set the tone early.
3.) Win the ﬁ  eld position battle 
(i.e. Punters are People Too)
UF punter Johnny Townsend has ﬂ  at-
out dominated this season.
In his ﬁ  rst full year as a starter, the red-
shirt sophomore is averaging 43.6 yards per punt, which puts him fourth in the SEC.
His ability to ﬂ  ip the ﬁ  eld has reaped 
dividends for the Gators.
Of his 44 punts this year, Townsend has 
booted 12 at least 50 yards, pinned 15 in-side the opponent’s 20-yard line and only had two land in the end zone for a touch-back.
If Townsend can continue his success 
into Saturday’s matchup against Vander-
bilt, the Commodores lackluster offense 
will have an even tougher road to travel to put points on the board.Three keys for the Gators if they hope to avoid another loss on Homecoming
said.
"I thought we did a good job 
with that.”
Just more than 15 minutes later, 
the Gators struck back. 
A long shot from junior mid-
ﬁ  elder Meggie Dougherty Howard 
was deﬂ  ected near the net by junior 
forward Savannah Jordan, redirect-ing the ball opposite of Vandy goal-keeper Christiana Ogunsami’s dive for her SEC-leading 20th goal and 
tying the game 1-1.
The ﬁ  rst half saw Florida take a 
staggering 15 shots, but Ogunsami 
was about as breakable as a dia-
mond on her back line throughout 
the game. 
Despite allowing two goals, the 
sophomore keeper saw 24 Florida shots, making nine saves on the 
night. 
But that success starts with the 
“set defense” that Vandy was show-
ing throughout the night. 
The Commodores played a lot 
of numbers inside their own box, which can give an opposing offense some trouble and frustration.“When we train in practice, we 
usually put the offense up by two or 
three players and then play against 
a set defense and it’s still hard,” Burleigh said.
“The fact that we were able to 
break them down is impressive.”
It took a little more than 30 min-
utes after the second half whistle for the tie to be broken, but it was Flor-ida who would eventually deliver 
the decisive goal.
Off a corner from Westphal in 
the 76th minute, junior Pam Begic 
headed a ball from the left near side of the box into the near side of the 
net for her fourth goal of the season, 
making the game 2-1 in the Gators’ favor. 
The assist was Westphal’s 11th 
of the year.  
The goal foiled Vandy’s attempt 
to hold on to the tie till the end of regulation.
But the deciding goal didn’t 
come without any risks. 
The Gators continued to attack 
even with the game seemingly un-der control, which Burleigh said left the team exposed to a potential 
counter attack from the Commo-
dores. 
“That’s a dangerous situation be-
cause we had to continue to press 
forward offensively, which leaves 
us vulnerable to the counter,” Bur-leigh said.
“It was deﬁ  nitely a puzzle, and I 
thought our team handled it pretty 
well.”
The counter attack that Florida 
exposed itself to on the goal never 
happened, as the Gators held on for 
the victory. 
The road only gets tougher for 
the Gators heading into the semiﬁ  -
nal round. 
UF will take on Auburn in the 
semiﬁ  nals on Friday at 4:30 p.m. on the SEC Network, after the Tigers beat South Carolina 5-3 on PKs on Wednesday night. 
In their lone matchup this sea-
son, the Tigers beat Florida 3-2 on Sept. 27 at Auburn.SOCCER,  from pg17Florida had 24 shots against Vandy
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway scores a touchdown during Florida's 27-3 win 
over Georgia on Saturday at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pamela Begic dribbles the ball during the ﬁ  rst half of Florida's 3-2 win against FSU on Aug. 30 at James G. Pressly Stadium. “When we train in practice, 
we usually put the ofense up 
by two or three players and 
then play against a set defense 
and it's still hard. ”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
On “Special Treat Wednesday”’, 
Florida coach Jim McElwain said his 
team finished practice with a level of focus that was “pretty darn good.”
With the Gators facing an op-
portunity to clinch the Southeastern Conference East on Saturday with a win over Vanderbilt, coupled with the university’s Homecoming, McEl-wain said he’s noticed a heightened sense of energy on the practice field.
“It seems like forever since we’ve been home, and I know we’re ex-
cited to get into The Swamp and 
feel the electricity of our people,” McElwain said. “I thought our work against each other was really good this week.”
With Wednesday’s practice hav-
ing the peculiar “special treat” prefix attached to it, McElwain elaborated on why, exactly, the Gators have 
dubbed the midweek session as 
such.
“Our wives and families bake 
cookies during the first part of the week and they’re there at the end of the practice,” McElwain explained. “They look forward to it. It’s a little 
slice of home and it’s an opportunity 
for our families to interact with the players and it’s something we did at the last place I was at.
“It was good for the families to 
get out and actually be able to see their dads and wives to see their husbands because pretty much they 
don’t see them. It’s just that one 
little opportunity again to kind of show some family and get the family around.”
But it wasn’t all goodies and 
gumdrops, McElwain assured.
The Gators spent practice focus-
ing on third-down situations, also known as the money-down, with an 
emphasis on red-zone decision mak-
ing. 
The Commodores, led by coach 
Derek Mason, are one of the SEC’s most improved teams on the defen-sive end, giving up just 18.5 points per game this season. 
When asked about the coaching 
gig at Vanderbilt, a program that has consistently seen limited success in the SEC, McElwain had high praise for Mason and the job he’s done in just his second season since coming over from Stanford. 
“I look at it as what he’s done 
since he’s taken over and how hard 
these guys play, with the focus 
throughout every game,” McElwain said. “That’s a credit to him and what he’s done to elevate how they think. They’ve got good players in a lot of spots.”
UF emphasizes third-down, redzone in Wednesday practice
“It seems like forever since we’ve 
been home, and I know we’re 
excited to get into The Swamp 
and feel the electricity of our 
people.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach