VOLUME 109 ISSUE 108 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Innocence Project inspires law hopefuls
Speaker Alan Crotzer shared his experience 
of serving 24 years for crimes he was later exonerated for, pg. 8.. Lack of FLC debate recording causes concern, confusion
FLC will consider recording future debates, pg 5.  
Vote. It is to your beneﬁ  t.
Read our editorial on the ﬁ  rst day of elections, pg 6. 
After a poor ﬁ  rst 
month in SEC play, 
January Miller has 
found offensive 
success in February. 
Read the story on 
page 13.
65/56
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Self-reﬂ  ection 
Niamh Clancy, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, writes on a mirror on the Plaza of the Americas as part of the “Mirrorless Monday” event. Sponsors invited students to write things they liked about them-selves on mirrors around campus. Clancy wrote, “I like to make others happy.” See the story on page 4.
 IT WILL BE IN ST. 
AUGUSTINE.
MICHELLE NEELEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is set to become the ﬁ  rst 
research university with its 
own sea turtle hospital and re-habilitation center.
The hospital will be located 
in St. Augustine as part of the Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience. It is projected to open this summer.
Catherine Eastman, the sea 
turtle program coordinator at the Whitney Lab and a long-time sea turtle volunteer, said activists realized the need for 
a sea turtle rehabilitation hos-
pital in northeastern Florida in the late 1980s, but the right op-portunity never presented itself 
until August 2013.
That summer, a member of 
the northeastern Florida sea 
turtle community grew tired of watching sea turtle hatchlings waddle to the ocean before they were strong enough.
“We are just ever so thank-
ful that she was able to give us 
that gift and put the gears in 
motion,” Eastman said.
The hospital project broke 
ground in September 2014, and Eastman said she wants to have water ﬂ  owing through the tanks in March before hope-fully opening this summer.
Nichole Bishop, a UF inter-
disciplinary ecology Ph.D. stu-dent in the School of Natural UF to open sea turtle 
hospital this summerSTATE
STELLA HEEKIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The year 2025 might sound far into the 
future, but that’s when Florida is expected to 
face a critical shortage of specialized physi-cians.
In a study released this month by IHS 
Global for the Safety Net Hospital Alliance of Florida and the Teaching Hospital Council of Florida, Florida is projected to be short 7,000 specialized doctors in 10 years.
The study highlights the gap between the 
supply and demand of physicians spanning 19 specialties in areas such as psychiatry and general surgery throughout the state.
Timothy Goldfarb, the UF Health Shands 
executive vice president for regional and gov-ernmental affairs, said although Florida has enough medical schools to produce M.D.s or doctors of osteopathic medicine, there are not enough postgraduate positions to train them in specialties like pediatrics and general medi-cine.
As the population in Florida grows, the 
goal is to fund residencies to keep in-state doc-tors from choosing out-of-state programs, ac-
cording to the study. It found that 81 percent 
of doctors who complete residency programs in Florida stay in the state to practice.Alexis Clare, a UF pre-medical biology ju-
nior looking to enter the plastic surgery track, said she is looking to go outside of Florida for her postgraduate training.
“I think there’s more opportunities because 
Gainesville is tiny,” Clare, 20, said.
Gov. Rick Scott has included about $7.5 
million annually in his proposed budget to fund programs, according to the study. Gold-
Study: FL could face specialized doctor shortage
SEE SHORTAGE, PAGE 4
SEE TURTLE, PAGE 4
SG voting begins today with polling locations around campus
Campus Voting LocationsARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The Spring 2015 elections start 
today after weeks of heavy cam-paigning from Access Party and Swamp Party.
Students can vote today and 
Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Students must bring their Gator 1 Card — or a government-issued photo ID and know their UFID number — in order to vote.
A new Student Body president, 
vice president and treasurer will be elected along with 50 senators rep-resenting colleges and class.Access’ executive candidates are 
Joselin Padron-Rasines for Student Body president, Kevin Doan for 
Student Body vice president and 
Nicholas Carre for Student Body treasurer.
The executive candidates for 
Swamp are Joseph Michaels for Student Body president, Tia Smart for Student Body vice president and Hadar Arazi for Student Body treasurer.
UF Supervisor of Elections Hans 
Rojas said no complaints have been submitted and that setting up for elections has been smooth.
Swamp Party President and spokesman Ricky Salabarria said the party is excited for elections and that he hopes for a high voter 
turnout.
“We’re just excited that the stu-
dents are going to have a voice in 
the decision, and we just want to show them why Swamp Party is the best for them,” he said.
Access President Matthew 
Hoeck said he hopes every student goes out and votes.
“We just want to make sure that 
everyone is encouraged to vote, rain or shine,” he said.
To catch up on election coverage, 
visit alligator.org/sgelections2015.Health Science Center
 C2-041CBroward Hall
 Basement
Heavener Hall 
 Academic Success Suite room 202
Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce
 Room C 202Jennings Hall
 First ﬂ  oor library
Law School (Bruton-Geer)
 Side hallways by cafeteriaSouthwest Recreation Center
 Cafe near entrance on left sideReitz Union 
 Computer LabNorman Hall
 Education LibraryMurphree Area Commons
 Conference Area room 106Marston Science Library
 Main roomNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 108 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
RAIN
67/53PARTLY 
CLOUDY
63/46CLOUDY
57/45RAIN
68/56RAIN
65/50
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. “Mr. Burns” is now on stage 
for the first time in Florida at the Hipp!
Midnight Fun Run
There will be a 24-hour early registration blitz Wednesday for the Midnight Fun Run by UF RecSports. The race will be April 22 at 11:59 p.m., and registration includes break-fast and a T-shirt. Register Wednesday at a discount-ed rate of $13 and receive 
glow in the dark shoelaces. 
Regular registration for MFR will reopen March 23 at a $15 rate for students. For more information, or to register, visit recsports.ufl.edu.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and 
Roll
Hear history come to life Thursday with a multimedia presentation by the chair-man of the Yale University Music Department, entitled “Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, run-
ning from 6 to 8 p.m. at the 
Matheson Museum, exam-ines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for well-known musi-cal sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Gay Movie Night
This month’s movie is “Burning Blue.” They have been trained to meet danger head-on and to execute vital strategic maneuvers while flying at breathtaking speeds. But after a series of fatal acci-dents, a close-knit squadron of male Navy pilots begins 
to splinter and becomes the 
focus of a criminal investiga-tion. As a government agent digs to uncover the cause of the accidents, two of the pi-lots engage in a secret forbid-den relationship. Their affair is exposed, and the squadron is engulfed by a scandal that 
will challenge each pilots’ no-
tions of friendship, love, hon-or and courage. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to cover cost of snacks. It’s at 7:30 p.m. Friday at the Pride Community Center, at 3131 
NW 13th Street.
Public meeting for Save Our 
Suwannee
Save Our Suwannee is host-ing a free public education presentation. Robert Knight will present “Restoring the Suwannee — A Hopeful 
Future.” He will talk about 
the current scientific under-standing of impairments, their causes and effects, and will lay out a comprehen-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Relaxation Week at Library West
Take a break from studying and join the Library Ambassadors for these relaxing activities at Library West. Today from 10 
to 11 a.m., second floor near 
the circulation desk: coffee and doughnut holes. Wednesday from 4 to 6 p.m., Room 212: chair massages. Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m., second floor near the circulation desk: pizza and fiction book giveaway.
The Hippodrome and New York 
Film Critics Series present a pre-release screening of “Bluebird”The Hippodrome Cinema and the New York Film Critics Series are partnering to present a private, pre-release screen-ing of “Bluebird,” starring 
John Slattery of “Mad Men.” 
Arrive at 7 p.m. tonight for an exclusive pre-show captured introduction by NYFCS host Peter Travers (Rolling Stone, ABC). Stick around after the screening for a captured live broadcast Q&A with John Slattery. Tickets are $15 and 
include a complimentary bag 
of popcorn. The Hippodrome Cinema is located inside the Hippodrome State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a com-plete listing of films and addi-tional showtimes, please visit thehipp.org
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets TuesdaysThe Talking Gators meet today at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the Entomology Building off of Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. For more information, go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org. Talking Gators 
is also on Facebook. The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to pro-vide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and 
personal growth. All are wel-
come.
Pay What You Can Night at the 
Hippodrome TheatreTonight is Pay What You Can Night at the Hippodrome State Theatre. The Hippodrome traditionally offers a “pay 
what you can” deal for the 
first Tuesday of every show’s run, so head downtown this evening and see the 7 p.m. performance of “Mr. Burns, A Post-Electric Play” for what-ever you’re capable of pay-ing (minimum $5). Set in a post-apocalyptic world, Mr. 
Burns follows a new civiliza-
tion that uses current pop cul-ture references, including TV’s longest-running hit show “The Simpsons,” to frame its pres-ent, and explores what will endure when the grid fails, so-ciety crumbles and we’re faced with the task of rebuilding. A 
New York Times Top 10 Play 
of 2013 and a sold-out success in New York and London, sive plan for restoration and protection. It will be at 7 p.m. 
Friday in the Great Outdoors 
Ballroom, at 65 N. Main St. in High Springs. Light refresh-ments will be provided after-ward.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college stu-
dents, especially when strug-
gling with a queer identity as a woman on top of work, classes and internships. Finding op-portunities to socialize with other queer women and release stress is rare. LGBT Affairs is offering a weekly discus-sion group that will connect 
you with other queer ladies in 
the area to chat, hang out and learn more about yourself and others. It is at 7:30 p.m. every Wednesday in Peabody Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
A story that ran Jan. 29 under 
the headline “Pantry opening to help hungry Gators, needs volunteers” incorrectly stated that about 15,000 UF students were in emergency need of food, when that number is closer to 1,500. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Baila Conmigo
Marcie Lucia (left), a 19-year-old UF English sophomore, dances salsa with fellow Gator Salsa Club member 
Alexander Gonzalez, a 20-year-old UF electrical engineering sophomore, on Turlington Plaza on Monday. 
 THE APPLES WOULD LAST 15 DAYS OR LONGER.
JACLYN SCOTT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Say goodbye to brown ap-
ple slices.
The U.S. Department of 
Agriculture gave America the 
OK on Feb. 13 to genetically modify apples. 
These ﬁ  rst-ever modiﬁ  ed 
apples, developed by Canada-based Okanagan Specialty Fruits, don’t brown after they have been bruised or cut into.
The driving force behind 
the Arctic Granny Smith and the Arctic Golden Delicious apples is to increase apple 
consumption, said Neal Cart-
er, the president of Okana-gan.
“I’m very excited about 
this prospect because people 
are going to see more apples 
in more places,” he said.
The research process start-ed in 1997, but it is still ongo-
ing. Okanagan is currently 
working on two different strands of Gala apples and one strand of Fuji apples. Ad-ditionally, up to seven variet-
ies of apples are being tested 
for the non-browning modiﬁ  -cation, he said.
After the Arctic apples 
have been cut, they can last 15 days or longer, Carter said. 
If the slices are rinsed un-
der tap water and stored in the fridge, the apples won’t 
brown for weeks.
“I think it’s a great idea,” 
said Kevin Folta, chairman of 
the UF Horticultural Sciences 
department.
The water and fertilizer 
can go a long way to produc-
ing more fruit, he said. And with fruit that’s visually ap-
pealing, he said, children 
are more likely to eat these apples.
However, he said not ev-
eryone shares his positive attitude toward genetically modiﬁ  ed food, referring to activist groups and members of the public who he says are 
ill-informed about the ben-
eﬁ  ts of genetically altered food.
“It’s unfortunate because 
they are very beneﬁ  cial,” he said. “We can do lots of good things going forward.”Genetically modiﬁ  ed 
apples won’t brown
CAMPUS
AARON ALBRIGHT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Seventeen faculty members in 
the Institute of Food and Agricultur-
al Sciences received research grants that will help young researchers kick-start their careers.
A total of $808,147 was awarded 
for the 2015 Early Career Seed Fund-ing program from a panel of scien-
tists within the department.
Winning research topics includ-
ed examining herbicide-resistant 
mechanisms, discovering new ways to detect E. coli in meat and creat-ing better-tasting processed tomato products.  
Douglas Archer, the associate 
dean for research, said the ofﬁ  ce found that investing in the young faculty has been positive for IFAS.
“It’s been very successful and 
very well-received,” he said.
Paul Sarnoski, a UF food science 
and human nutrition assistant pro-fessor, was awarded $49,103 to re-search the idea of developing better products made with processed to-matoes, according to a press release.
Sarnoski is looking forward to examining the ﬂ  avor makeup of processed tomatoes. He will then test whether using better-tasting to-matoes can make a difference in the product for consumers.
“It’ll be interesting to see how the 
two types of data correlate,” he said.
Archer said one of the beneﬁ  ts 
to the Early Career Seed Funding 
program is that it allows young re-
searchers to further their careers through funding from federal grants.
“We’ve been delighted by that,” 
he said of the program’s results. IFAS awards young researchers“I’m very excited 
about this prospect 
because people are 
going to see more 
apples in more places.”
Neal Carter
President of Okanagan Spe-
cialty fruits4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
farb said the funding has to be long 
term for doctors to want to complete programs that take up to seven years.
“So it has to be a sustainable com-
mitment on the part of the state, and that’s what we’re trying to accom-
plish,” Goldfarb said.
As for UF Health Shands, Goldfarb 
said growing the residency programs 
should extend beyond the teaching hospital and into community hospitals, where doctors are likely to practice.
“We can help other communities 
grow and train these residents,” Gold-farb said.
The study may not be perfect, 
Goldfarb said, but the goal is not to be precise but to gather a general consen-
sus on how to end the shortage.
“It’s to get everybody working on 
the same thing and in the same direc-
tion,” he said, “and I think thus far we’ve been successful with that so we’re very excited.”Alligator File Photo
Students board a Route 38 Regional Transit System bus near the Hub. Santa Fe College is proposing a 
number of changes that will expand some bus routes and reduce travel times.
 SOME ARE CHANGING TIMES AND ROUTES.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College proposed a 
number of changes to the Regional 
Transit System that will reduce trav-el time and alter routes.
The changes will come into effect 
later this year and will cost RTS ad-ditional money, which Santa Fe will cover, RTS Marketing and Commu-
nications Supervisor Chip Skinner 
wrote in an email.
Routes 39 and 62 will receive ad-
ditional service hours so they run until 5:30 p.m. and 5 p.m., respec-tively — two hours longer than they currently run, Vice President of Stu-dent Affairs Naima Brown said.
Routes 17 and 43 will be com-
bined, providing a one-way ride from Rosa Parks Downtown Station to Santa Fe campus, she said. Route 27 will be realigned from Southwest Second Avenue to Northwest First Avenue to provide service to the 
Gainesville Housing Authority’s 400 
Building, which houses people with disabilities.Route 76 will travel along Inter-
state 75 to get to Santa Fe, which will reduce the amount of time it takes. It will also be expanded to provide service to the UF Health Springhill medical complex.
Santa Fe will also make admin-
istrative adjustments to improve the buses’ abilities to get to stops on time.
Brown said Santa Fe will also be 
launching a committee in the Stu-
dent Government that will make 
recommendations to the college 
about RTS.
Students will be able to go to the 
committee to bring up issues they have with the bus system.
Melvin Tolbert, who works in 
landscaping at the college, said an issue he and other passengers have is the number of bike racks on the busses.
Tolbert said he’s noticed more 
people riding bikes, and he thinks RTS should add two additional bike racks. One time he had to wait for an hour until there was room on the rack for his bike, he said.
But when bus 23 pulled up to the 
bus stop Thursday, the bike racks were empty.
“I’m lucky,” Tolbert said. “But I 
got a break (this time).”Santa Fe proposes expansion to RTS routes for student benefitSEAN DOTY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pregnant women of North Florida 
can soon begin bonding with other women with similar delivery dates.
The UF Health Women’s Center –
Medical Plaza will offer CenteringPreg-
nancy, a group, prenatal-care program, 
beginning the first week in March.
Women early in their pregnancy, 
usually the beginning of the second trimester, can participate in group ac-tivities with other women in similar stages of pregnancy, Colleen Senterfitt, the chief operating officer at Centering Healthcare Institute, wrote in an email.
“It is an enriching and rewarding 
experience all around,” Senterfitt said. “Women will receive all the same care and more.”
Dr. Dikea Roussos-Ross, a UF Health physician and leader of the new pro-gram, said after the women speak to their health care provider, they will meet monthly for about 90 minutes to discuss their health and techniques to help them through their pregnancies and beyond.
One of the program’s biggest goals 
is to reduce the rate of premature births. Senterfitt said similar programs have proven to reduce premature births by between 33 and 47 percent, and 97 per-cent of women say they prefer it to indi-vidual care.
CenteringPregnancy will not place a 
financial burden on participants. Senter-fitt said women who partake in the pro-
gram will be reimbursed by their insur-
ance, just like regular visits to the doctor.
Roussos-Ross was awarded a $25,000 
grant by the March of Dimes in Decem-ber to help jump-start the Centering-Pregnancy program at UF.New UF pregnancy program 
to center on group careCAMPUS
KRISTINE JANATA
Alligator Contributing Writer
“Don’t forget to smile,” Syleena Powell 
wrote on the covered bathroom mirror in the 
Florida Gym on Monday.
Powell joined other students on campus 
who wrote inspirational messages like “Love 
yourself,” “My confidence lets my inner beau-
ty shine” and “You are beautiful!” on the mir-rors.
This is the second year GatorWell has 
sponsored Mirrorless Monday, a project to promote confidence and a positive body im-age. 
GatorWell partnered with Housing and 
Residence Education, the Student Health Care 
Center and RecSports to cover bathroom mir-
rors in the residence halls, RecSports build-ings and the Student Health Care Center with paper to encourage students to write positive messages on them.
Natalie Rella, a GatorWell health promo-
tion specialist, brought it to UF last year to kick off National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, which runs from Feb. 22 to 28.
Rella said while people do suffer from eat-
ing disorders, more students are impacted by everyday unhappiness and dissatisfaction with the way they look. 
She said writing positive messages will 
take the exercise to a higher level of compre-hension.
“Skip the mirror and try to reprogram your 
brain to think more positively about your body,” Rella said.
Powell, an African American studies soph-
omore at UF, said Mirrorless Monday was im-portant because it promoted inner beauty, not outer beauty. Covering the mirror is covering 
the main source of outer reflection.
Powell, 19, said she hopes GatorWell con-
tinues this project.
“I think it helps to promote a positive body 
image by reminding them every time they 
look in the mirror that they are beautiful,” Powell said. “It helps them understand that the mirror doesn’t define their beauty.”Mirrors used to promote self-
image for GatorWell event
Top priority to treat rare disease 
Resources and Environment, 
said she was interning at the Whitney Lab last summer when she heard about the plans.
“I was very excited to hear 
that there was going to be a sea turtle hospital,” Bishop, 30, said. “I know that there is one in Georgia, but it is still several hours away.”
The Georgia Sea Turtle Cen-
ter is about two hours north of 
St. Augustine and often takes injured or ill sea turtles from 
northeast Florida and rehabili-tates them. Some diseased sea turtles cannot cross state lines due to regulations, so they have to be transported even to loca-tions as far as the Florida Keys.
Those turtles are often 
plagued with a virus called fi-bropapilloma, Eastman said. The virus is contagious, and only about three of the 15 sea turtle hospitals in Florida are equipped to treat it.
Lexie Beach, the communi-
cations coordinator for the Sea Turtle Conservancy — an or-ganization that funds sea turtle research and rehabilitation — said treatment is pricey and re-quires infected turtles be treated separately from the others.
Eastman said one of the big-
gest priorities for the new hos-pital is to treat that disease.  
Although the process of es-
tablishing the hospital is some-times painstaking, she knows the work will be worth it.
“This isn’t just for the tur-
tles,” Eastman said. “It’s for a community.”
TURTLE , from page 1
SHORTAGE , from page 1UF Health making plansTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
 FLC WILL CONSIDER 
RECORDING FUTURE DEBATES. ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
Students who missed the Fresh-
man Leadership Council debate 
between Swamp Party and Access Party expressed concerns when they found out no video recording was 
available.
About 500 students attended the 
Feb. 17 debate. Following the event, 
multiple students commented on the Facebook event page asking if there was a recording of the debate.
Then, an administrator of the 
FLC Facebook page published a post the day after the debate that  read, “In order to protect the integ-rity of the debate and to ensure no 
footage would be used out of con-
text, we did not video record the debate or allow any video footage whatsoever.”
FLC Chairman Shane Randel 
said his organization had no issue with students who wanted to record the debate. He declined to comment on the post.
“I don’t think social media is a 
reliable source,” he said.
Before the debate, a sign outside the auditorium said recording was prohibited. Jason Degen, the Uni-versity Auditorium production ser-vices director, said the auditorium has a default policy when it comes to video recording and photography. 
He said it’s up to the client 
whether he or she decides to change the default rule to allow recording.
Degen said clients sometimes 
forget to amend the default rule.
“(FLC) very may well have for-
gotten,” he said.
Randel said at the debate, mem-
bers of FLC were reminded by a 
University Auditorium usher that 
no recording was allowed when the usher saw Student Government TV representatives setting up cameras. He said FLC respected the rules of the auditorium.
FLC then amended the rules 
to allow SGTV to film the opening statements of both candidates for 
future episode footage, Randel said.
Students had not voiced con-
cerns about recording debates in the 
past, he said. Now that they have, he said the organization will look into video recording for future debates.
“We’re glad that students are 
speaking up and voicing their opin-ions. It’s great to see that in the Stu-
dent Body,” he said. “Now that it’s 
been brought to our attention, it’s something we’ll consider.”  Regardless of which rules were 
or were not in place during the debate, Sandra Chance, executive director of the Brechner Center for Freedom of Information, said politi-cal debates are protected by the First 
Amendment.  
“Allowing as many students as 
possible to hear from the parties is 
an important aspect of the debate,” she said.
Students should hold SG to a 
higher level of accessibility and transparency, especially because student fees help fund SG, she said.
“Everyone benefits when more 
people are involved in elections and voting,” she said.
Lack of FLC debate recording causes concern, confusion
CONOR SOPER
Alligator Contributing Writer
After more than a decade of business, 
Gypsy Palace is closing.
Located at 4000 W. Newberry Road, 
Gypsy Palace carries clothes, jewelry, 
rocks, crystals, gemstones and incense from places all over the world, like Chi-na and Morocco, said co-owner Michael Ryon.
“Our reputation is that you can get 
the best deal here,” he said.
It’s a reputation almost 14 years in the 
making, and it will be coming to an end soon, although Ryon said he is still not sure of an exact date.
“I’ve been playing it by ear,” he said.Ryon and the other co-owner of the 
store, Darlene Nash, have decided not to renew their lease.
“Business is real slow,” Ryon said. 
“My partner and I are totally tired of be-ing in the store all day.”
Under the purple and yellow sign 
with the store’s name are black and white “Clearance” signs plastered all over the store’s front windows.
When it comes to closing Gypsy Pal-
ace’s doors, Ryon said he is grateful that they’re still open today.
“Who knew that months ago, that I’d 
be in here still selling,” he said.
Sanna Saare, a freelance graphic de-
signer, said she’s sad to see the store go.
“It’s heartbreaking for me,” she said. 
“I’ve been friends with them for years, and I followed them at the different loca-
tions they’ve had.”
Saare created the Facebook page for 
Gypsy Palace and shot the photography 
for it. It was on Facebook that she got a 
notification from the page announcing 
that the store is closing.
Ryon, who is part of the Krishna com-
munity, said when people come into this 
life, they have a karma and a destiny.
“Really, we think we’re in control, but 
really we’re just fulfilling our destiny,” 
he said. “We’re predestined to have a certain amount of money in life; a certain 
amount of happiness.”
Until he decides what to do next, any 
unsold merchandise will go into storage. 
For now, he isn’t sure of plans for what to do in the future.
“I don’t know what will happen,” he 
said, “but I know that everything will work out to the best.”Gypsy Palace to close doors after almost 14 years of business
Conor Soper / Alligator 
A sign inside Gypsy Palace on 4000 W. Newberry Road displays price cuts put in place by the store’s clearance sale. The store, which has been open for almost 14 years, will close some-time in the next couple weeks.
TYLER MCLENNAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s news station was recognized 
this year for its emergency prepared-
ness. 
WUFT’s Florida Public Radio Emer-
gency Network (FPREN) received the 2015 Media Award from the Florida 
Emergency Preparedness Association. The award recognizes FPREN’s efforts 
to educate and inform the state about 
emergency management.
“We were all shocked and thrilled,” 
said Randy Wright, UF executive di-rector of Media Properties. “We had no idea that FPREN and the University 
of Florida College of Journalism and 
Communications’ media properties had been nominated.”
FPREN, which opened in the Fall, 
is a collaborative effort of the 13 pub-lic radio stations that serve the state, 
Wright said. WUFT FM Radio houses 
the storm center, which provides con-tent for radio stations and their web-
sites.
In the case of an emergency situa-
tion, like a hurricane or tropical storm, the quickest and easiest way to reach 
the people throughout the state is through FPREN, Wright said.
Janyth Righter, executive director 
of Florida Public Broadcasting Station, said she thinks of FPREN as an infra-
structure for emergency evacuation. 
Righter, who is currently in Wash-
ington, D.C., said Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator 
William Craig Fugate talked about the Florida system in a meeting. He said 
it was valuable, and he would like to 
see it implemented in other parts of the country. UF radio receives media 
award for emergencies ALISON ECKERLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Vedrana Damjanovic was the only UF 
student to attend a conference at Yale Uni-
versity.
Damjanovic, a 20-year-old public rela-
tions sophomore, attended the 2015 Europe-
an Student Conference on Feb. 13 and 14 at 
Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. She was one of 80 selected from among 350 applicants.
The conference was made up of under-
graduate and graduate students from Euro-pean countries studying at universities in the U.S. They gathered to learn and discuss EU policies.   
Originally from the small city of Doboj 
in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Damjanovic said she has always been active in her commu-nity through ToPeeR, an organization that roughly translates to “tolerance against dif-ferences” in English.
She began volunteering with the organi-
zation at 12 years old and estimates that she 
attended more than 30 conferences, which covered a wide range of issues, from HIV 
prevention to juvenile delinquency.
“That’s really my whole life,” Damjanovic 
said. “I really like to do things that could ac-tually make some differences.”
Before the event, participants wrote policy 
papers on issues that would be discussed at the conference. Damjanovic said she was one of four participants to write about the impor-tance of education in the digital economy.
Damjanovic said when they weren’t in 
workshops, participants had time to meet with various European leaders such as Richard Tufft, the region head of EMEA eq-uity research for Goldman Sachs in London, 
whom she personally spoke to.
Amie Kreppel, a UF political science pro-
fessor, taught Damjanovic in her Introduc-
tion to Comparative Politics honors seminar last year. Kreppel wrote in an email that she was pleased to hear Damjanovic was one of the few students accepted.
“She shows a great deal of promise,” 
Kreppel said. “Her willingness to work extra 
hard to overcome the difficulty of studying 
in English was impressive.”UF student visits Yale for 
European Student ConferenceReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Vote. It is to your 
beneﬁ  t.
Elections for Student Government, including president, 
vice president and treasurer, begin today. Polls will be 
open from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at speciﬁ  c locations on 
campus; all that’s needed is, uh, you.
All kinds of elections are important. We’ve already said it 
almost every day of this campaign: This particular SG election 
might be the most important one you’ll have the opportunity 
to participate in for your academic career. 
This is a big one, y’all, and it could have ramiﬁ  cations for 
how SG is run from now to deep in the imaginable future. 
Unfortunately, the percentage of participation in SG elections 
tends to be very low — like, barely-double-digits low, which is 
preposterous.
Knowing full well the editorial urging students to vote 
makes a semesterly appearance, we’re going to do our best to keep this one free of the usual “it’s your duty for democracy,” or whatever.
Instead, we’re going to focus on debunking the excuses peo-
ple use to avoid voting, partly because we have tangible points to make about those justiﬁ  cations and partly because this isn’t a second-grade social studies class.
Of all the many reasons, the big two are something like 
“what SG does doesn’t matter/won’t affect me,” and a general apathy toward the process resulting from years of domination by a single party.
Well, the argument that SG doesn’t do anything important 
or anything that affects the average student is an outright false-hood. SG isn’t a toy legislative body; it has real impact, most of which is found in the power it has to dispense an annual bud-get of about $18.7 million. This money is divided among proj-ects and student organizations as SG sees ﬁ  t. If you’re in any of the roughly 1,000 student organizations at UF, your organiza-tion’s very existence might depend on its SG-funded budget. 
But many students aren’t involved in student organizations 
at all; why should they care?
Every student pays $18 per credit hour to SG as part of 
their tuition. This adds up. A student taking 15 credit hours  in a semester would pay about $270 to SG. Said student could spend the same amount of money on 13 handles of Smirnoff vodka, 30 Chipotle burritos — with guac — or most of a ticket to Bonnaroo. We’re not complaining about the fact there are fees — this money goes to hundreds of important causes that make UF better. We’re just making it clear that every student is invested in what SG does.
But, if anything, that’s why you should participate in every 
SG election. And we’d like to emphasize what makes this one special. 
This time, you have a choice. There are two viable parties to choose from, a rare situation 
in the saga of SG politics at this university. What we as a Stu-dent Body decide in the next two days will impact student life here long after we’re gone. Please participate.
86 TOTAL VOTES56% YES
44% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Would you study abroad in Cuba?Today’s question: Are you going to vote in the Student 
Government elections?Choose public health over personal belief
Last week, Andrew Silver wrote a column in which 
he argued that veganism should be considered a religion so that vegans would have a civil right to 
refuse vaccinations. While I appreciate Silver’s interesting perspective on the issue, his column failed to address cru-
cial aspects about vaccinations and the value they hold in 
our society.
Silver begins his column by defending a former veg-
an employee of an Ohio hospital for refusing to get a ﬂ  u vaccine. The employee, who worked for Cincinnati Chil-dren’s Hospital, claimed she was exercising a religious right and shouldn’t be forced to take a shot that contains egg products.
Both Silver and the former employee fail to realize that 
refusing to vaccinate is not a personal decision that only affects one person. It is a choice that can have potentially life-threatening ramiﬁ  cations for other people, especially in a hospital ﬁ  lled with newborns and sick patients. The employee may have a right to her own beliefs, but she has no right to work in a hospital if she shows such little re-spect for the health and well-being of the people in it.
This is why every person who can safely receive a 
vaccination should do so, regardless of their “religious” 
beliefs. When the vast majority of people are vaccinated, 
we protect vulnerable members of society — like babies, pregnant women, and people undergoing cancer treat-ments — from catching a disease and becoming severely ill. This concept is called “herd immunity,” and it’s the only protection available to the unvaccinated.
People with immune disorders, egg allergies and organ 
transplants are also unable to receive vaccinations. They, too, rely on the vaccinated to prevent highly contagious 
diseases from spreading in the ﬁ  rst place.
Unfortunately, due to the “personal choices” of those 
who decide not to receive vaccinations, completely pre-
ventable illnesses are threats once again.
The most recent measles outbreak, which is presumed 
to have originated in Disneyland, has already affected at least 145 children and adults in California, seven other states, Canada and Mexico. This isn’t surprising news, considering that almost 8 percent of California kindergartners did not receive the required vaccina-tions against measles, mumps and rubella last year.
In his column, Silver doesn’t 
seem too concerned about the rapid spread of a disease that was once virtually eradicated in the U.S. He apparently ﬁ  nds it reassuring that “only 141 peo-ple” have been affected by mea-
sles last week, and that the outbreak has been “limited to certain areas.”
Measles can cause deadly complications including 
pneumonia, brain damage, respiratory and neurological complications and damage to the nervous system. It is also highly contagious, affecting 90 percent of vulnerable people who come in contact with the virus. The fact that even a few people caught this infection is reason enough to be alarmed.
If every capable child and adult had been vaccinated 
for measles, this outbreak would not have occurred. Sil-
ver, however, argues that “consciously accepting chicken 
parts in a measles shot is as unethical as accepting eggs and bacon for breakfast.”
I understand Silver’s objection to receiving a shot that 
has cell cultures from chick embryos, but I do not under-stand why he thinks that objection is more important than public health and safety. And while we’re on the subject of ethics, how is it ethical to jeopardize the only form of im-munity that vulnerable members of society have against 
contagious diseases?
Personal beliefs should not be an excuse for knowingly 
putting the health of other people at risk. I encourage Sil-
ver and those who agree with him to remember that get-ting vaccinated is not just our choice. It’s our responsibil-ity.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Access Party President addresses stu-
dents
UF students,
My name is Matthew Hoeck, and I serve 
as the Access Party president. Our party was formed with the belief that the best form of government is one in which every student, 
regardless of background or circumstance, 
has the opportunity to achieve anything they want on campus. We believe Student Govern-ment should serve 100 percent of the Student Body, and we’re here to to make a difference. We lead by principle — not by calculation, but by conviction.
This is the kind of party that UF needs 
right now. A party that offers real, meaningful 
change, not just change as an idea. I represent 
a party that intends to lead on a simple mes-sage: You matter to us; your future is our fu-ture. We are a party that believes we are only a strong university if everyone is given the op-portunity to live up to their potential.
Since our party’s creation a few weeks ago, 
thousands of students have expressed a pas-sion for the ideals Access represents. For a 
new party to have such a high level of support 
speaks to the enthusiasm and hunger within our Student Body for something new. I could not be prouder of our candidates, who truly encapsulate the rich diversity of The Gator Nation.Our executive ticket and Senate candidates 
have the experience, dedication and passion to make life here at UF better for all of you. We are committed to fundamentally chang-
ing SG through accessibility, affordability, and 
accountability for every Gator. Our plan for accessibility includes everything from online voting and 24-hour Marston Library hours, to gender neutral single-stall bathrooms and a Chief Diversity Ofﬁ  cer. Accountability begins with cutting SG ofﬁ  cials’ salaries; making Doc-utraq, the SG ﬁ  nancial system, public; and re-forming Senate constituency requirements. As 
for affordability, we plan to decrease student 
fees for graduate students as well as lobby against tuition hikes and for summer Bright Futures scholarships.
For far too long, SG has taken your vote 
for granted. After all, less than 20 percent of students vote. Today is your chance to have a say in how SG spends about $2,000 of your money.
Voting will take place from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 
p.m. today and Wednesday.
If you’re interested in volunteering or 
learning more, or you wish to speak to a rep-resentative about Access Party, visit ufaccess-party.com or feel free to email us at ufaccess-party@gmail.com.
Matthew Hoeck
UF Access Party president Swamp Party Student Body president 
candidate addresses students
After a long season of campaigning, 
it’s ﬁ  nally time for you, the distinguished 
students of UF, to decide who you want to represent your university in Student Gov-ernment. This semester has demonstrated 
how important it is for our party to contin-
ue to follow through on its promises and show how qualiﬁ  ed we are to represent every student on this campus. 
We are lucky to attend a university 
where a humbling amount of students are passionate about a diverse set of cam-pus organizations, and we’re motivated to keep ensuring that every student and 
every organization feels at home on this 
campus.
We are listening, and we are committed 
to using our collective experiences to keep improving on the issues that you feel most passionate about. 
We feel strongly that we’ve put forth a 
detailed platform that addresses the con-cerns you have. Our track record shows 
that when we set out to address a problem, 
we follow through.
Last year, the Swamp Party presiden-
tial candidate, Cory Yeffet, ran on a plat-form of 18 points, and as we stand today, 15 of those points have been accomplished with the other three as works-in-progress. When we create our platforms, we set our standards high because SG should be working to address every concern from the 
Student Body, both big and small. When 
we set our platform, we by no means plan on limiting ourselves to just what we’ve listed on it. As the year develops, our plat-form evolves with the changing needs of our students.
When our students no longer felt safe on 
campus this past fall, Swamp responded by co-sponsoring the WalkSafe initiative. 
When we saw the other state universities’ 
tuition continue to rise, Swamp responded by lobbying to keep UF’s down. As your elected representatives, Swamp won’t stand idly by when unexpected problems arise throughout the year.
With that said, we can’t emphasize 
enough the importance of not just voting, but voting for the party that will work for 
you in the best way possible. 
Vote for the experience you need. 
Vote for the results you deserve. Vote Swamp so we can keep ﬁ  ghting 
for you.
Joey Michaels
Swamp Party Candidate for Student Body 
president Letter to the Editor
We live with the en-tirety of human knowledge and 
history in our pockets. We live in a dynamic, ﬂ  exible 
time in which a person can 
communicate with anyone in the world on the Internet. Our lives are constantly changing with technology that is pro-duced at a high rate. But, with regard to entertainment, it seems the more things change, the more they stay the same.
Our generation’s entertainment prefer-
ences are rooted in nostalgia. Instead of 
creating new content, the media of today 
appears to be obsessed with recreating and rebooting stories of years past. Music, movies and TV shows indicate we are no longer living in a world of pure imagina-tion, but rather a creative purgatory more concerned with brand recognition than ar-tistic innovation and originality.
Perhaps the most recent example of 
old ideas being reused can be found in Sam Smith’s “Stay with Me,” which won Record of the Year at this year’s Grammy Awards. It’s essentially a Sam Smith remix of Tom Petty’s “I Won’t Back Down,” yet it was held as a breakthrough. Perhaps it is people’s forgetfulness or ignorance that allows old ideas to be praised as new.
Instances of past-dependent creation 
are increasing exponentially in the music industry. You can hardly hear an album that does not have a cover on it. Not only that, but media constantly makes com-parisons of contemporary artists to older artists. If the artists of the past continue to be held with such religious reverence, we will never have an artist reach the heights of Michael Jackson. Can you imagine if 
each time Michael Jackson sang or danced 
we were told he was a new James Brown? Constant comparisons like that would have deﬁ  nitely hindered his ability to have an unprecedentedly successful career.
Film has been experiencing similar 
limitations. The amount of remakes and reboots presently produced 
is absurd. It is almost as if 
mainstream screenwriters 
and directors completely ran 
out of ideas and decided to remake movies and books 
they remember from their adolescence.
For instance: Marvel Studios acquired 
the rights to Spider-Man for an upcoming ﬁ  lm, which was an exciting endeavor for its makers and fans.
It is not. Spider-Man has existed since 
the 1960s and we have seen ﬁ  ve Spider-Man movies — plus countless cartoons and comic books — since the beginning of the millennium. Oversaturation is just one component of the problem with reboots like these. Another problem is the altera-tion of characters and storylines. Most of the movies don’t stay true to the comics, so it feels like legacy is just being used for 
licensing purposes. Aren’t there any new 
superheroes they can make movies about?
Television isn’t much better. It is stuck 
in rewind with its characters, stories and concepts. We watched the same cartoons as our parents. Our kids will probably watch the same cartoons we did. Just look at Cartoon Network’s upcoming shows; you would think this was the 1960s. Loo-
ney Tunes, Tom and Jerry and Scooby-
Doo all have upcoming shows airing on the network and have already gone through countless rebranding attempts over the years. These reboots rarely em-body the shows’ original charm. They are simply unimaginative attempts to proﬁ  t from old and tired concepts.
In this new age, nothing we watch or 
listen to seems very new. It all appears to be re-polished versions of the same vinyl, re-shot scenes from the same ﬁ  lm and a rerun of a TV show that we have already seen. As a consumer, I want innovation. I want imagination. I don’t want to see old 
ideas regurgitated.
Emanuel Grifﬁ  n is a UF journalism fresh-
man. His column appears on Tuesdays. New media is actually 
dressed-up, old mediaColumn
Who else watched Neil 
Patrick Harris ﬂ  aunt his body live on TV on 
Sunday night?
Well, I did. I never thought I 
would write that sentence. It just goes to show you that life, and the Oscars, are full of surprises.
Neil Patrick Harris in tighty 
whities aside, I thought the Os-cars were a bit of a ﬂ  op. Sure, it was awesome to see the all the stars; Lady Gaga received a standing ovation for her performance, and Julie Andrews was stunning, but there were 
also some pretty darn awkward moments.
We all know the big winners, and most of 
them were well-deserved: “Birdman” won 
Best Picture, Julianne Moore’s Oscar for Best Actress in “Still Alice” was uncontested, and personally, I’m hella pleased that “Big Hero 6” took home Best Animated Feature Film.
But then there was Neil Patrick Harris. I 
usually love him and the cute pictures he 
posts of his family on Twitter, but he was 
just trying too hard this weekend. Ellen De-Generes left some pretty big shoes to ﬁ  ll as host, and Harris wasn’t quite up to size. The stunt with his Oscar predictions — actual events during the show — locked in a brief-case and guarded by Octavia Spencer was an-noying until the very end of the night, when it became eerily accurate — but still mostly 
annoying.  Most of the opening number was 
such a chipper, happy-go-lucky performance it made my teeth hurt just by watching it.
All in all, the best one-liner from Harris 
was his opening joke: “Tonight we honor Hollywood’s best and whitest — sorry, brightest.” Ouch. Harris’ statement was a well-placed dart at the academy for their frankly ridiculous exclusion of any people of 
color in the line-up for the Oscars this year. 
Although they faced criticism for this from multiple platforms, the academy still refused to nominate any women or people of color for awards in any of the major categories. For Pete’s sake, “Selma” was robbed, OK?
The academy has had its problems with 
racism and sexism before and probably will in the future, but that doesn’t mean we 
shouldn’t be upset. It’s a message for us to 
keep working toward something.Patricia Arquette’s accep-
tance speech for Best Support-ing Actress was a bright note in the evening, a vehement call for political and economic equality 
for women. It was a powerful 
speech, and one of the more pop-ular moments of the ceremony — seeing Meryl Streep and Jennifer Lopez fan-girling together over 
it made my night inﬁ  nitely more enjoyable. But her speech has come under criticism for excluding the LGBT community and women of color in its feminist message and further in 
her comments after the show ended.
Arquette’s speech was full of good inten-
tions, and I applaud her honestly, but let’s 
face its ﬂ  aws. For me, feminism is either inter-sectional or pointless.
In all the polls, Arquette was a shoo-in for 
the Oscar. Her performance in “Boyhood” is lauded far and wide by critics, but what made it such an obvious choice was the weakness 
of its competition. This is disappointing. As a 
Time magazine article summed it up: “Each of the roles nominated in the category can be boiled down to a basic female archetype: mother, daughter, girlfriend, or witch.”
I love all the women who were nominat-
ed for Best Supporting Actress. They all did a great job, but the characters they played lacked extra spice that catapults a role into 
being Oscar-worthy.
Keira Knightley, for example, had such a 
side part in “The Imitation Game” that I was 
surprised the character was even considered.
Hollywood needs to remember that the 
push for strong female roles doesn’t only apply to leading ladies. If the only way for a woman to land a nuanced, well-characterized role is in a starring part, then women still 
have a long way to go in the world of cinema.
The 2015 Oscars had a few excellent per-
formances, many lovely outﬁ  ts and some 
shocking moments, but it also demonstrated the degree of change needed in the ﬁ  lm in-dustry. The new year of movies starts now, and I wonder what progress it will bring.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public 
relations sophomore. Her column appears on 
Tuesdays. Oscars a ﬂ  op; in desperate 
need for progress, equalityColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgEmmannuel 
Grifﬁ  n
opinions@alligator.orgJESSICA RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dozens of students gathered 
in the UF Levin College of Law’s 
Martin H. Levin Advocacy Center Courtroom on Monday to hear a story of wrongful conviction.
The Innocence Project of Flori-
da is an organization that aims to prove the innocence of wrongful-ly convicted prisoners. UF Hillel and the Jewish Law Students As-sociation co-hosted the event that brought speaker Alan Crotzer to share his experience serving 24 years for crimes he did not com-
mit, such as rape and robbery.
“The justice system is totally 
broken,” Crotzer said. “They 
knew before I went to trial it wasn’t me.”
He said he could calmly share 
the story of his unfair treatment because of his mother, who al-ways believed in his innocence.
The Innocence Project of Flor-
ida not only helps prove accused prisoners’ innocence but also con-tinues to help them after they’re released, like providing social workers and job training.
The organization’s goal is to 
keep cases like Crotzer’s from  happening again, said Seth Mill-
er, Florida Innocence Project ex-
ecutive director.
“We want to put ourselves out 
of business,” Miller said.
Alexa Jacobson, a UF crimi-
nology and business junior, said it was inspiring that Crotzer was able to talk to students after spending all those years in prison. 
She has been working with the In-
nocence Project since she was 15.
Now 21, she said she’s glad the 
event inspired the students to get involved with the justice system.8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Alan Crotzer, who spent more than 24 years in prison before being 
exonerated in 2006 at age 45, speaks at the Levin College of Law on Monday. He told his story and encouraged law students to help people who are wrongly convicted.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Work in Progress
A worker stands at 311 SW 13th St., where Social 28 Apartments are under construction. The apart-ments are meant to be only 28 steps from campus and are expected to open next Fall.
CAMPUSInnocence Project inspires hopefulsDANIELLE VEENSTRA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Construction of a food pan-
try for students in need may 
begin this summer.
There are about 50,000 stu-
dents at UF, and about 1,500 
of them are without food, ac-
cording to a 2013 GatorWell Healthy Gators survey. 
The survey prompted UF to 
open a food pantry on campus that will have emergency food and toiletries available to stu-dents, faculty and staff.
“I think it’s a great oppor-
tunity to reach some of these people who don’t have access to food that a lot of other people 
do,” said Allison Vitt, commu-
nications coordinator for the Office of Sustainability.
When more than 1,000 stu-
dents were asked if they had received emergency food in the 12 months preceding the sur-vey, more than 3 percent said they had. The survey’s large sample was translated to UF’s 
entire population. 
Tanja Philhower, the associ-
ate dean of students, said there 
will be two phases of construc-tion that may start this summer, but a date has not been set.
In phase one, the food pan-
try will provide nonperishables and toiletries, such as tooth-
paste and feminine products.
By phase two, the renovated 
building will have refrigeration 
for fresh fruits and vegetables that will come from UF’s Stu-dent Agricultural Gardens and local partnerships. Anyone with a Gator 1 Card will be able to access the food pantry.
“We wanted to make the 
process as simple as possible and without the stigmatization of using a food pantry,” Phil-hower said. “We want to make it feel safe.”Food pantry plans 
for summer start
 THE MAN, WITH A BAC 
OF 0.21, TRIED TO PASS THE PATROL CAR.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville Police offi-
cer is in stable condition af-
ter a man reportedly crashed 
into his patrol car Sunday.
Just after 3:30 a.m., Cpl. 
Matthew Walters was help-
ing another officer investi-
gate a crash at the 1900 block 
of West University Avenue. He was inside his patrol car with his lights on to warn oncoming traffic about the 
crash when Steven Joe Nor-
man Jr., 24, tried to pass him and hit the passenger’s side of the car, according to a 
police report. Norman then 
drove away.
Medical technicians took 
Walters to UF Health Shands Hospital with neck and back 
injuries, according to the re-
port. Gainesville Police said Monday the injuries were not serious and he was re-
covering at home.
About two hours after the 
crash, deputies from the Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Office found Norman and his car 
outside his house, located at 309 NW 30th St. A hole in the 
car’s front bumper matched a piece of bumper embedded 
in the side of Walter’s patrol 
car, fitting “like a puzzle piece,” according to the re-port. 
There was also white 
paint and part of a blue de-cal on the driver’s side of the car, which police said matched the striping on po-
lice cars.
Authorities could smell 
alcohol on Norman’s breath, 
according to the report.
After he was arrested, 
Norman told police he drank at a party but was driven home by a friend. 
He then admitted to driv-
ing home but denied the crash.
A breath test showed Nor-
man’s blood alcohol content  
levels to be .206 and .210. He 
also failed a sobriety test.
He was then arrested for 
drunk driving, according to the report.
Police arrested Norman 
on charges of hit and run, DUI with damage to prop-erty and resisting an officer 
without violence.
Officers took him to the 
Alachua County Jail, where 
he remained as of press time in lieu of a $40,000 bond.Officer stable after 
man crashes into carTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Good food,
good life.Good food,good life.be smart.
eat local.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
For students with visual impairments like 
Andrew Daugherty, Santa Fe College used to be 
much easier to navigate.
There used to be textured maps and poles, 
structures which the Santa Fe human resources 
senior said students with vision loss could use 
to get around campus. But now both of those are gone, which makes navigating campus difﬁ  cult for the visually impaired. 
At age 3, Daugherty was diagnosed with rod-
cone dystrophy, a visual impairment that affects a person’s peripheral vision. The 27-year-old’s vi-
sion is now near blindness. 
Now, Daugherty and other students with vi-
sual impairments may receive more assistance 
following Student Senate’s approval of a resolu-
tion to help these students navigate campus.
The resolution made no speciﬁ  c suggestions 
on how it would help students, but Sen. Connor 
Levine said he hopes to put braille on the maps around campus.
Daugherty said Santa Fe used to have tex-
tured maps around campus that were about the height of pulpits and had different textures for grass, buildings and roads.“You could actually just feel everything and 
know exactly where you’re supposed to go,” Daugherty said. But one day, he said, “they just disappeared.”
Now, Santa Fe has large paper maps placed 
inside protector cases.
Standing about 6 feet away from one of the 
current signs on campus Friday, Daugherty could see the map but couldn’t make out the let-ters. When he got closer, he said the bright light reﬂ  ecting off the white on the map hurt his eyes.
Disabilities Resource Center Coordinator 
Claudia Connelly said the college offers assis-tance to students with vision loss through the Di-vision Blind Services.
Specialists train students with vision loss on 
safety techniques and show them how to get to their classes, Connelly said.
But when students with vision loss need to 
go somewhere new on campus, she said, they re-quire assistance.
Before Levine met Daugherty, he said he 
didn’t realize the challenges students with vision loss face on campus.
“It’s a little ironic that he opened my eyes to 
how difﬁ  cult it is (to navigate campus),” Levine said.Santa Fe resolution calls for more 
accessibility for visually impaired
JUSTIN ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
While the rise of the Internet has 
empowered customers, businesses 
have had to modify how they interact with consumers to ﬁ  t the trend.
Well-informed consumers have 
presented challenges for businesses, said Steven Kirn, executive director at UF’s David F. Miller Center for Retail-ing Education and Research. This has caused businesses to rethink how they approach their target audience.
“If you’re a retailer, you got to pro-
vide them something which goes be-yond what they can read on the Inter-net,” he said.
This is in line with a study about 
shopping habits conducted by Price-waterhouseCoopers, a private ser-vices ﬁ  rm. The annual survey showed marked increase in the number of people who research before they buy.
Angie Mohr, manager at Ward’s 
Supermarket, said the change has al-lowed consumers to become more fa-miliar with the store.
Clement Asiamah, assistant man-
ager at Finish Line, said it’s a win-lose situation. More people shop online, which takes away from in-store sales, 
but the store’s employees still have the 
upper hand with a product’s details.
“Customers deﬁ  nitely do have 
knowledge, but the only thing they don’t have knowledge about is some-times the product itself,” he said.
Others think consumers are not be-
coming any more slick. 
Michael Morris, the program direc-
tor for the Center for Entrepreneur-ship and Innovation at UF, wrote in an email that real information is becom-ing harder to distinguish. This can be the result of prominent, paid websites.Consumers becoming 
savvier in digital eraTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;
One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-
10-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    
2-27-15-7-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR/1BA CONDO FOR RENT.
W/D, fireplace, new appliances. Off 13th St., 
Creekside Villas. $600/mo. 352-870-0488    
3-9-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE APT (for re-let)5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent includes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $725/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-13-15-10-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UP
NO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    
4-22-14-71-12
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 3-13-14-73-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Babysitter wanted - for children ages 6 to 
12. Mostly weekday afternoon/evening times. Help with homework, light house-keeping. $12/hr. Email resume and refer-ences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    2-24-15-5-14
Student wanted to assist elderly woman with meals. Part time on weekends. Five minute drive from campus. $15/hr. Call Rosemary 703-638-0295 or hilleyjohn@yahoo.com    2-26-15-5-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring all positions. Experience manda -
tory. Earn top pay in a family work environ -
ment. Apply in person 5 SE 2nd Ave.    2-27-
15-5-14
babysitter - cooking skills, reliable,
organised, references, flexible hours 
avgeorgieva@yahoo.com     2-27-15-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
Professional resume writing to get you hired. 
Student Rates: $49 only, forResume, Cover Letter and Follow up Letter.www.arcaderesumes.com    2-24-15-5-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Baseball player honored
UF sophomore center fielder Buddy Reed the 
Southeastern Conference Co-Player of the Week on Monday. He hit .444 this week.Softball player honored
UF freshman utility player Kayli Kvistad was named the Southeastern Conference Specialist of the Week on Monday after posting a .556 batting average this week.A.J. Puk found success in the UF baseball team’s final game against Miami. Read the 
story on page 14.GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
February has been good to January Miller.
After noticeably struggling in the opening month of 
Southeastern Conference play, the junior guard from Or-
lando has been playing improved basketball recently.
Miller scored just 42 points on 15-of-62 shooting in the entire month of January, good for 24.2 percent from the 
field in those eight games.
Miller’s shooting struggles led to her confidence wan-
ing, and the losses kept mounting.
But her play has seen a resurgence in UF’s six games in 
February, something the fiery playmaker attributes to an increase in what she does best: attacking the hoop.“I’m feeling a little more confident attacking the bas-
ket, changing up my game between shooting jump shots and attacking,” Miller said. “I’m just feeling pretty good.”
And her play has benefitted from that feel-good men-
tality.
With one game remaining in February, Thursday’s 
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
Devin Robinson is alright 
with losing — for now. 
The freshman swingman 
has steadily improved this season after a career debut in which he went 2-of-10 from the field  in UF’s 79-70 exhibition 
win against Barry on Nov. 6.
“I came in with a big head. 
I felt like we were going to go 
undefeated, we were going to go to the national champion-
ship, we were going to win it 
all,” Robinson said. 
“I felt like it would be easy 
coming in, going to win every game. Definitely not the way it worked out. I’m kind of glad it 
happened the way it happened 
so we could improve and hum-ble ourselves and come back with a better attitude and come 
out ready to work.”
Robinson walked into a 
team fresh off of a Final Four 
appearance and a school-re-cord winning streak. 
But as coach Billy Donovan 
has said, once the quartet of seniors left the team, the warts showed and complimentary players were unable to step up to the plate. 
That has left the Gators toe-
ing the line of .500, losers of five of their last six and eight of their last eleven. 
While the old stipulation of 
finishing .500 or better in order to make the NIT no longer ex-ists, no team has made the NIT with a sub-.500 record since the 
rule was nixed in 2006.
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Devin Robinson brings the ball down the court after grabbing a rebound during Florida’s 
62-61 loss to Ole Miss on Feb. 12 in the O’Connell Center.
Freshman learning through Florida’s struggles
 THE GYMNASTICS TEAM POSTED ITS HIGHEST ROAD SCORE OF THE SEASON IN ITS LOSS TO LSU.
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Even after losing to LSU, Rhonda 
Faehn believes Florida is almost ready 
for the pressure of the postseason.
In front of a record crowd in Baton 
Rouge, the Gators posted their highest road score of the season (197.425) on Friday night. 
Faehn saw significant improve-
ments in how they handled the pres-sure — the type of pressure they will need to overcome to win a champion-ship.
“I felt like they did really well un-
der those circumstances,” she said. 
“We could have done better, but 
(I’m) looking for subtle and small 
improvements every step of the way, 
and that’s what I feel like this team is doing.”
The meet was the third opportuni-
ty this year for Faehn to evaluate how 
her team handled a pressure-packed 
environment against a top-10 team. 
The first was at Alabama, a test 
Florida failed just over a month ago 
after posting a season-low 196.80. 
The second was at Arkansas two 
weeks ago, a meet in which the Gators 
showed marked signs of improvement but still lacked the sharpness they 
were looking for.
But against LSU, Florida got even 
closer to its goal, particularly in two 
areas. UF improves 
in latest 
road testWOMEN’S BASKETBALLJanuary Miller playing high-end basketball in February
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15SEE GYM PAGE 15SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15
 “I felt like it would be 
easy coming in, going to 
win every game.”
Devin Robinson
UF men’s basketball freshmanJORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
The A.J. Puk who took the 
mound for Florida on Saturday 
was not the A.J. Puk coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan is used to seeing in practice.
After retiring the first five bat-
ters in UF’s 7-2 loss to Miami in 
the middle game of the series, Puk 
hit a snag.
The sophomore left-handed 
pitcher walked two consecutive 
batters and then hit a third, load-
ing the bases before UM’s Bran-
don Lopez ripped an RBI single to right field to give the Hurricanes the early lead.
Puk went on to give up three 
more hits and allow two more runs in the third inning to cross the plate before being pulled in favor of Aaron Rhodes.
“Obviously he wasn’t pleased 
about how he threw (Saturday), and trust me, he’s really good,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s got a chance to be one of the best left-
ies in the country, but (Saturday) 
was just one of those nights. He’s 
going to have to move on from it. He’s going to have to learn from it.”
And one day later, Puk showed 
he is able to move on and learn from a bad night.
The sophomore hit a double to 
right-center field in his first at-bat 
of the night and was the only UF 
player to record multiple hits in 
Florida’s 2-1 series-clinching win against Miami on Sunday.
“A.J. is one of our best players,” 
O’Sullivan said. “And I think the 
way he swung the bat, especially 
his first at-bat, to kind of shake off what happened (Saturday) night, 
I think that says a lot about him.”
O’Sullivan is looking for that 
kind of consistency as No. 6 Flori-
da (6-1) faces Florida Atlantic (6-1) at 6:30 tonight in Jupiter, Florida.
The Gators own a 20-7 all-time 
record against the Owls, but this game won’t necessarily be easy.
FAU started the season with 
four straight wins — including a 
5-3 win over Miami on Wednes-
day — before taking two of three 
against Ohio State this weekend.
The Owls have four players 
with at least 10 at-bats who hold 
at least a .300 batting average.
UF right-handed pitcher Brett 
Morales (1-0, 0.00 ERA) will make 
his second start of the season to-night against FAU.
Morales started Florida’s 13-3 
win against USF on Wednesday, pitching six perfect innings before reaching his pitch count for the night.
While the Gators have been 
successful early on, O’Sullivan 
knows the team still has room for improvement.
“We are scrappy,” O’Sullivan 
said, “and even though we didn’t play our best and we don’t have all of our players right now. ...  
We’re in a good place right now, but there’s still a lot of things we 
can get better at.”
14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
A.J. Puk pitches during Florida’s 7-2 loss to Miami on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. After struggling 
on the mound in the loss, Puk rebounded at the plate and recorded two hits in the Gators’ 2-1 series-clinching win against the Hurricanes on Sunday. UF plays FAU at 6:30 tonight in Jupiter, Florida.
BASEBALLSophomore finds success at plate following poor pitching outing
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
Just four games into the season, Florida ap-
pears to have found its groove. 
Since their opening-day loss to No. 2 North 
Carolina, the No. 5 Gators have won three 
straight games, most recently a 17-7 home win 
over San Diego State (0-1) on Friday night. 
In their last three games, the Gators have 
outscored their opponents by a combined 
score of 55-15 and have seemingly dominated 
their opponents in all facets of the game.
In fact, until the Aztecs 
scored their first goal 12 
minutes into the contest, 
Florida had gone 72 min-
utes and eight seconds without surrendering a goal, a streak that spanned its three wins.
Players have talked about how well they 
feel they are connecting with their teammates both in practice and in games, specifically using the term “meshing.” Coach Amanda 
O’Leary agrees that her young team has quick-
ly grown and come together to perform so well on the field, a progression that has been visible in Florida’s games thus far.
“Although we have some upperclassmen, 
we’re still fairly young,” O’Leary said. “For us to get out there and make those adjustments in-game and to show a little bit more matu-rity each and every time we step on the field, 
I thought they’re doing a good job maturing 
and certainly coming together.”O’Leary is pleased with how balanced the 
Gators have been in each of their four games this year, from the attackers to the goalkeepers. 
Senior midfielder Shannon Gilroy is the an-
chor of Florida’s high-powered offense, some-
thing she has proven game after game.
Gilroy scored five goals against San Diego 
State and leads the team with 14 this season. 
She is now just eight goals shy of becoming 
the Gators’ all-time leading goal scorer. 
After Friday’s win, O’Leary said she 
thought Gilroy played her best game of the 
season, one week after missing time with ton-sillitis.
“I think Shannon showed what she can do,” 
O’Leary said. “She was able to shoot the ball really well, she was driving hard to the goal cage, she was seeing her teammates when she was caught in double teams, so I thought it was a really complete game from Shannon.”
On the opposite end of the field, sophomore 
Caroline Fitzgerald has been the leader of Flor-ida’s defense up to this point. 
She was named the Big East Defensive 
Player of the Week last week and continues to play lockdown defense while guarding the opponent’s most dangerous offensive players.
The overall balance that the Gators possess 
has shown in the last two weeks as they have been able to smother opponents all over the field and put games away early. 
“She’s a phenomenal player and I’m cer-
tainly glad she’s on my team and I don’t have to play against her,” O’Leary said of Fitzgerald.
Fortunately for O’Leary, she could cur-
rently say the same thing about the rest of her roster.UF lacrosse coming together, 
rolling through early competition
Gilroy
 THE GATORS ARE IN FIFTH 
PLACE.
JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Alligator Writer
@RosenbergJusten
Two days into the Allstate Sugar 
Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Champion-
ship, the Gators women’s golf team found itself in a familiar situation, head-ing into Tuesday’s final round in fifth place for the second straight tourna-ment, 10 strokes behind first-place LSU.
The scene was set for Monday.With a temperature in the 40’s and 
the wind blowing at an estimated 10 miles per hour, it was far from your wishful sunny, 
warm, round of golf.
“Today’s conditions tested our pa-
tience,” coach Emily Glaser said in a re-lease. “But I thought we did a great job of playing hard all the way to the end.”
Led by sophomore Maria Torres and 
freshman Taylor Tomlinson, the Gators were able to improve on the team’s sixth-place standing from Round 1.
For consecutive days, Torres finished 
with a round score of two-over-par. That was almost put on hold, though, as the Puerto Rico native had four bo-geys in the back nine. However, a birdie on hole 18 made up for a rough ending, putting her in a tie for 10th place.
Then there is Tomlinson.In two spring tournaments, the fresh-
man has recorded two top-25 finishes.
Heading into Tuesday’s third round, 
Tomlinson is in position to make it a 
third straight, as she is currently in a tie 
for 14th, with a total score of +5.
Sophomore Kelly Grassel, who fin-
ished Sunday’s first round at two-over-par, didn’t have the same fortune on 
Monday. 
Grassel finished the second round 
with a score of eight-over-par, which was her second worse round perfor-
mance of the spring.
Junior Ursa Orehek, who is compet-
ing as an individual, finished the day at 
+7, moving her cumulative score to +16. 
She is in a tie for 64th place.  
Heading into Tuesday’s final round, 
the Gators have a great chance to con-
tinue to move up the leaderboards.
“As a team, I thought we hung in 
there pretty well,” Glaser said. 
“We aren’t playing great golf but we 
are certainly showing our depth as a 
team, and I see us becoming more con-
sistent, which is positive.”
Consistency will be key for the 
Gators, as they will look to build off of 
their disappointing finish at Northrop 
just two weeks ago, where they fell five 
spots on the leaderboard in the final 
round.
A top-five finish would be the Gators’ 
best finish in a tournament with a mini-
mum of 10 teams since their third-place 
finish at last year’s Allstate Sugar Bowl.UF women’s golf improves on 
Day 2 of Sugar Bowl tourney
UF GolfRobinson will be counted on much more 
again Tuesday night when the Gators (13-14, 
6-8 Southeastern Conference) face the Missouri 
Tigers (7-20, 1-13 SEC). 
The Tigers, who have lost 13 straight, own 
one of the nation’s longest losing streaks, but 
the Gators will again be without leading scor-
ers Michael Frazier II and Dorian Finney-Smith 
from a high ankle sprain for the former and an indefinite suspension for the latter.
“With Dorian being out, I feel like I need to 
rebound a lot more, crash the glass,” Robinson 
said. 
“He collects a lot of rebounds for our team, 
and I feel like I need to step up and be more 
physical down low as well, have a bigger pres-
ence and stretch the floor, get out on the wing. I 
wouldn’t say I have to score more, but I would say I have to be more aggressive and play with more energy.”
Robinson does seem to be getting it, under-
standing finally what Donovan has been trying to show his team all along, that it takes a higher commitment to winning than what Florida has shown to date to be successful. 
Donovan said it was “disappointing” to in-
vest the time and effort in getting a team men-tally ready to play only to have the group not take his teachings to heart.
The development of a winning mentality 
may be all the Gators can salvage from a season that doesn’t have anywhere near the amount of glory last season’s did.
“I’m glad it didn’t come easy,” Robinson 
said. “It’s better to have challenges earlier and figure it out later. I’m not glad we had a bad season, but I’m kind of glad we tried to figure things out.”
The first was starting the com-
petition quickly, something the 
team has struggled to do while battling with the nerves that 
come with the big away meets.
“I loved the way that they 
started out aggressively, and they had tons of energy,” Faehn said. 
“That was something that I’ve 
said to them, that when we’re on 
the road we have to be so loud 
and so supportive and cheering each other on, just simply be-cause we have to create our own 
energy, so it’s really important 
and I felt the team did just that.”
The second was respond-
ing with composure after a fall, something Florida has done well 
at home but hasn’t been able to 
translate to the road.
The Gators suffered back-to-
back falls on Friday — one from 
junior Bridgette Caquatto to 
finish floor and the other from freshman Kennedy Baker to start beam.
But the rest of the gymnasts 
kept their composure and man-aged to finish beam with solid scores, keeping them from count-ing the fall.
“What I did love is that the 
team responded after that,” Faehn said. 
“That was, again, a gorgeous 
beam routine from Claire (Boyce) 
and as well from Alex (McMur-
try) and Ericha (Fassbender), great routines. … I really am hap-py with how they finished out.”
There are only three meets 
left before Florida’s postseason begins, and each is a precious opportunity to make the adjust-ments necessary before wins and 
losses truly matter.
Faehn believes if the gymnasts 
continue to make the same mar-
ginal improvements each week 
as they have in the past month, 
the team will be peaking at just the right time.
“Hopefully we’re planning it 
just properly,” she said. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Marley Boerema / Alligator
January Miller looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 76-75 
overtime loss to Vanderbilt on Thursday in the O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Freshman Kennedy Baker performs her balance beam routine during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against Georgia on Jan. 30 in the O’Connell Center. Baker fell during UF’s loss to LSU on Friday.
UF maintained composure after fall
GYM , from page 13Miller working on shot
contest at Alabama, Miller has 
scored 59 points on 22-of-46 shooting, good for second on the 
team in that span behind Ronni 
Williams (69).
Coach Amanda Butler has no-
ticed the improvement in Miller’s 
play, most notably when she’s 
streaking ahead of the defense 
trying to get a transition basket.
Florida doesn’t score on forced 
jump shots — they score in tran-
sition and attacking the basket, Miller’s forte.
“She has done a much bet-
ter job with her shot selection,” Butler said. “You know really picking her spots to attack and finding a way to be different than 
the rest of our perimeter players, 
which I think makes her a very challenging defensive matchup. She’s a really powerful athlete, and strong and very, very deter-
mined when she’s got the ball in 
her hands.”
Butler has seen Miller and her 
fellow Gators taste defeat often 
this season, occasionally in pre-
ventable ways.
Florida has been on the wrong 
side of free throw disparity mul-tiple times, as UF has struggled 
to draw contact without consis-tent paint penetration.
While the Gators’ other 
guards, namely Cassie Peoples 
and Carlie Needles, tend to play behind the three-point line, Mill-er excels when she beats her de-
fender off the dribble and slashes 
to the basket.
“The best thing that I think 
she’s doing besides just creating 
some penetration opportunities 
where we actually score, is draw-ing a lot of fouls,” Butler said. “She’s the best candidate on our team to make those types of plays 
for us.”
Despite coming off the bench 
for the Gators, Miller is third on 
the team in free-throw attempts 
behind Williams and Peoples.
With just two regular season 
games remaining for a team that 
sits two games behind .500, it would be safe to say that Flori-
da’s season is over barring a mi-
raculous run in the SEC tourna-ment.
But just like she didn’t give 
up when her shot wasn’t falling, Miller isn’t ready to give up on hopes for the postseason.
“We’re just taking each game 
one game at a time and just fo-
cusing on that,” Miller said. “I 
think we’ll have a good outcome if we do that.”W-HOOPS , from page 13
HOOPS , from page 13UF plays Missouri tonight in battle 
of bottom-dwelling SEC teams16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2015
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Junior Brianna Morgan awaits a serve during Florida’s 4-0 win against Maryland on 
Jan. 25 at the Ring Tennis Complex. Morgan clinched No. 2 Florida’s 4-3 win against No. 10 Stanford on Sunday to give the Gators their 138th consecutive home win. Florida opens Southeastern Conference play against No. 8 Alabama on Friday.
ENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer  @eneisyr29
The No. 2 Florida Gators 
clinched their 138th straight home victory on Sunday after defeating No. 10 Stanford 4-3 
at the Ring Tennis Complex.
But with a tough South-
eastern Conference schedule 
ahead of them, the team is not 
putting much emphasis on 
that number.
The Gators take pride in 
the streak, but it was not dis-
cussed in the locker room 
this weekend, coach Roland 
Thornqvist said.
More than 1,000 Gator fans 
filled the stands during Sun-
day’s match against Stanford, 
and Thornqvist said the en-
ergy and atmosphere helped the team overcome the adver-sities.
He believes the players 
handled the challenging week incredibly well.
Florida was able to bounce 
back in singles Sunday after a rough start in doubles play 
— an area the team has been 
strong at this season.
Thornqvist said the team 
was scared, and it was mostly his fault. He didn’t think he did a good job in the locker room. But despite losing the doubles point for just the fourth time this season on Sun-day, the Gators rallied during singles action to take home the win with junior Brianna Mor-gan clinching the match.
“The fact that we were able 
to discard what happened in doubles and play such phe-nomenal singles does say a lot about the team, no question,” Thornqvist said. 
“But, I think that we’ve 
learned now with losing the doubles point to Clemson, winning 4-3 and losing the doubles point (Sunday) that we can win big matches with-out having the initial point”.
Thornqvist has a lot of 
confidence in his team. He be-lieves his athletes are ready to transition into SEC play. With a roster filled with primar-
ily underclassmen, he said the 
team needs to focus on being 
emotionally ready to compete 
every time it plays.
“We need to be sure we 
adjust our training volume during the week so that we 
are ready,” Thornqvist said. 
“You know this weekend was certainly not just physically 
draining but emotionally.”
Thornqvist said it’s impor-
tant to do the right thing dur-
ing the week for his young team to be ready for every 
weekend contest.
Florida hosts the defend-
ing SEC Champions, No. 8 
Alabama this Friday at 5 p.m. and No. 27 Auburn Sunday at 
1 p.m. at the Alfred A. Ring 
Tennis Complex.
“As a team, I think we are 
pretty good,” Thornqvist said. 
“There might be a little thing 
here and there individually 
that we need to improve on. 
But fitness wise, I think we are right where we need to be.”UF has tough schedule looming
UF’s top players through its non-conference schedule 
Brooke Austin: 5-1 in singles, 7-1 in doubles
Kourtney Keegan: 4-1 in singles, 7-1 in doubles
Brianna Morgan: 4-2 in singles, 1-1 in doubles
Belinda Woolcock: 6-1 in singles, 5-1 in doublesSEC play starts Friday