INSIDE
UF defensive lineman Jon Bullard opted to stay in school for his senior 
season. Now, he’s carrying Florida’s defense and improving his draft stock.
ONLINE
For all the updates on Saturday’s game between No. 25 Florida and No. 
3 Ole Miss, stay tuned to alligator.org/sports
ONE MOREdefensive linemen who 
were drafted in the ﬁ  rst or 
second round since 2007KICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photos for Cover Illustration Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, October 2, 2015
FLORIDA offense vs. OLE MISS defense FLORIDA defense vs. OLE MISS offense
Robert ConyersCChad KellyQBJalen WaltonRB
Quincy 
WilsonCB
Vernon
Hargreaves IIICB
CeCe 
JeffersonDE
Joey 
IvieNT
Antonio
MorrisonMIKE
Jarrad
DavisWILLBryan 
Cox Jr.RUSH
Marcus
MayeS
Keanu 
NealSJavon
PattersonRGFahn
CooperRTEvan
EngramTE
Aaron
MorrisLGChristian 
MorrisLTLaquon
TreadwellWR
Cam DillardC
 Will GrierQB
Kevin T aylorRBDavid
SharpeLT Trip
ThurmanLG
Antionio
CallawayWR
Antonio
RilesRG
Mason
HalterRT
Jake
McGeeTEDemarcus
RobinsonWR
Brandon 
PowellWRWoodrow
HamiltonNT
Fadol
BrownDET ony 
BridgesCB
Kendarius
WebsterCBDenzel
NkemdicheOLB
C.J.
JohnsonMLBTrae
ElstonFS
Mike 
HiltonS
Marquis
HaynesDECody
CoreWR
Jon 
BullardDT
Brian 
PooleCBRobert
NkemdicheDTDante Fowler Jr. 
Dominique Easley
Sharrif Floyd
Jermaine 
Cunningham
Carlos Dunlap
Derrick Harvey
Jarvis Moss
OUTINJURY
REPORT
LB Jeremi Powell (Foot)
LB Alex Anzalone (Shoulder)RB Case Harrison (Thumb)
PROBABLE
CB Vernon Hargreaves III (Back)OL Trip Thurman (Shoulder)
OUT
INJURY
REPORT
DB T ony Conner (Knee)OT Laremy Tunsil (Eligibility)DT Issac Gross (Neck)OT Rod T aylor (Shoulder)QUESTIONABLE
K Austin Hardin (Quad)TE C’yontai Lewis (Hand)CB Kylan Johnson (Leg)LB Matt Rolin (Back)UF
Fowler consistently found ways 
to wreak havoc despite being double-teamed by opponents on a regular basis. He ﬁ  nished his junior year — his last at UF 
— with a career-best 8.5 sacks.2015: No. 3, Jacksonville Jaguars
His senior season was cut 
short due to a torn ACL, but Easley still ﬁ  nished his UF 
career with 18 tackles for 
loss as a defensive tackle.2014: No. 29, New England Patriots
In 26 career starts, Floyd to-
taled 26 tackles for loss and 
blocked three ﬁ  eld goals, a mark that is still tied for ﬁ  fth in UF history. He earned All-America honors as a junior.2013: No. 23, Minnesota Vikings
Cunningham tallied at least six sacks in each of his 
ﬁ  nal three seasons with the 
Gators, including a career-best seven as a senior.2010: No. 53, New England Patriots
Dunlap opted to forgo his senior 
year and enter the NFL draft af-
ter three standout years with the 
Gators. He totaled 19.5 sacks in his career, tied with Cunning-ham for 10th in UF history.2010: No. 54, Cincinnati Bengals
Harvey left for the NFL Draft after tallying 19.5 sacks 
and 30 tackles for loss in 
his ﬁ  nal two years with the Gators. In those two years, he had six multi-sack games.2008: No. 8, Jacksonville Jaguars
In his ﬁ  nal two years, Moss reg-
istered 15 sacks in 24 games.  He 
played a critical role in UF’s 17-16 win against South Carolina in 2006, swatting down the po-tential game-winning ﬁ  eld goal with eight seconds remaining.2007: No. 17, Denver Broncos
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Jon Bullard tackles T ennessee quarterback Josh Dobbs during Florida’s 28-27 win against  the Volunteers on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Jon Bullard could have easily justiﬁ  ed 
leaving the Florida football program early.
After three years of moderate success 
on a top-end defensive line, Bullard had a realistic chance of being selected in May’s 
NFL Draft.
Add in the ﬁ  ring of Will Muschamp, his 
head coach and main conﬁ  dant ever since 
arriving at UF, and Bullard had all the rea-son to leave.
But he wasn’t ready to leave Gainesville 
just yet.
He had unﬁ  nished business.He had something to prove.
“One more (year) wouldn’t hurt,” Bul-
lard said at the Southeastern Conference 
Media Days in July.
And one month into his senior season, 
Bullard is proving his worth, serving as the anchor of a ﬂ  ourishing defensive line and taking on the leadership role that has reaped dividends for so many players be-fore him.
That leadership will be put to the test 
on Saturday, when No. 25 Florida (4-0, 2-0 SEC) faces No. 3 Ole Miss (4-0, 2-0 SEC) in The Swamp at 7 p.m.
“I can’t tell you how glad I am that he 
chose to come back and he is, through con-sistent play, helping himself every time he’s out there,” ﬁ  rst-year UF coach Jim McEl-wain said. 
      
For three years, Bullard had veterans to 
look up to.
Sharrif Floyd, an All-American defensive 
tackle and the 23rd overall pick in the 2013 NFL Draft.
Dominique Easley, a ﬁ  rst-round selec-tion by the New England Patriots in 2014.
Dante Fowler Jr., the No. 3 pick in May’s 
draft and the heart and soul of Florida’s de-fense last year.
But now, Bullard is the leader, the one 
his teammates look to for answers.
“Bullard knows it’s his time,” defensive 
lineman Joey Ivie said. “He’s a senior. … He’s got to leave a mark.”
The mark is already there.In his ﬁ  rst three seasons, Bullard racked 
up 112 tackles — 16 for loss — and 5.5 sacks in 36 games (22 starts)
But those numbers are a far cry from 
what the senior has produced in 2015.
Through four games, the 6-foot-3, 
283-pound Bullard leads UF linemen with 21 tackles.
He’s tied for second in the SEC in both 
sacks (four) and tackles for loss (eight). In 
his entire junior year, he only had 2.5 sacks 
and 8.5 tackles for loss.
He saved the Gators in their 14-9 win 
against Kentucky with his third-down sack of Wildcats quarterback Patrick Towles with 46 seconds left in the game. Defensive 
back Quincy Wilson sealed UF’s win one 
play later with a fourth-down interception.
“It starts with Jon,” McElwain said. 
“What he’s doing in preparation. It’s not the game. The game’s easy if you take care of today. And that’s what he’s really done.”
      
Bullard knows he doesn’t need to be the 
loudest one in the huddle to command his teammates’ attention.
He lets his play do the talking.And Bullard’s play has spoken loud and 
clear.
“If they see how hard I’m working and 
actually making a name for myself,” he said, “they’ll tag along.”
So far, it’s worked out.A third of the way into the regular sea-
son, the Gators are tied for sixth nationally in sacks (14) and tied for ninth in tackles for loss (35). 
“Bullard pulls us together,” defensive 
lineman Caleb Brantley said. “He became a leader.”
      
The 2016 NFL Draft is more than six 
months away, but Bullard still has a ways to go before being considered among the elite prospects.
He’s nowhere to be found on ESPN ana-
lysts Todd McShay or Mel Kiper Jr.’s big boards and he’s listed as a second-to-third round draft pick by CBS Sports.
But don’t try to convince SEC Network 
analyst and former NFL defensive lineman Marcus Spears that Bullard isn’t a top play-er.
“Every year, you’ve got guys in the con-
ference who can change the game up front. He’s deﬁ  nitely that guy,” said Spears, the No. 20 overall pick in the 2005 NFL Draft.
To Spears, a former All-American de-
fensive end at LSU before playing eight full seasons with the Dallas Cowboys, the tran-sition from college to professional football is more mental than physical, something he said Bullard should have no problem doing.
Bullard has already improved his game 
and is playing at all four positions along the defensive line, a sign of versatility that has worked in both Florida’s and Bullard’s 
favor.
“I’ve seen improvement that I could have in my game and that’s what I wanted to come back and do,” Bullard said. “… I 
just came back just to try to strive and get my goal which is be a high-rounder.”
Since 2007, UF has had ﬁ  ve defensive 
linemen selected in the ﬁ  rst round.
And if the rest of the season plays out 
like the ﬁ  rst four weeks, Spears said Bullard has the chance to be the sixth.
“D-linemen don’t just fall off trees, 
man,” Spears said. 
“So when you ﬁ  nd someone that athletic 
with long arms and range, he’s a scout’s dream.”
      
Bullard is making a name for himself.And Saturday’s game against Ole Miss 
will provide him the opportunity to show just how well he can handle a challenge.
The Rebels have one of the most potent 
offenses in the country, leading the SEC in scoring offense (54.8 points/game), passing offense (344.5 yards/game) and total of-fense (543.5 yards/game).
Ole Miss’ offensive line has given up just 
six sacks this season. The line has held its own even with star offensive lineman Lar-emy Tunsil not playing a single down this year due to an ongoing NCAA investigation.
“Their ranking is well deserved and well 
built by their staff and how they’ve gotten players and all that kind of stuff,” McElwain said. “This is a heck of an Ole Miss team.”
And the Rebels are just the start.Over the next month, UF faces three top-
10 teams in Ole Miss, No. 9 LSU and No. 8 Georgia, a daunting challenge that will make or break McElwain’s ﬁ  rst year at UF.
But to Bullard, that schedule will only 
force the Gators to prove just how good they are.
And he’ll be leading the way on defense.“We all try to come in and get guys to 
lock in,” Bullard said. 
“It’s hard to get everybody to lock in ev-
ery day, but if we want to be great, that’s what we have to do.”UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Bullard shining in senior year
Quincy
AdeboyejoWR
A.J. 
MooreCB“It’s hard to get everybody 
to lock in every day, but if 
we want to be great, that’s 
what we have to do.”
Jon Bullard
UF defensive linemanWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 29 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
Defensive tackle crucial to Rebels’ 
dominance
Ole Miss comes to Gainesville to play the 
Gators on Saturday, pg. 13
UF brings Hispanic Latinx artists for Hispanic 
Heritage Month
Fat Joe and Fulanito will perform today, pg. 3
Research Roundup
UF professor helps reef ﬁ  sh survive deep-sea ﬁ  shing, pg. 8Rebel Readers
Check out the story and photo story, pg. 5
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
UF alumnus Herbert Wertheim 
wears the same red hat almost all 
the time, save for when he eats dinner and showers.
“I ain’t ever takin’ it off,” he 
said.
On Thursday, UF students, 
faculty, staff and members of the Pride of the Sunshine Gator Marching Band donned orange-and-blue versions of Wertheim’s woven fedora as they celebrated his record $50-million donation to UF’s College of Engineering. This 
is the largest cash gift to the uni-
versity, and it marks the beginning of UF’s ﬁ  ve-year plan to gather $300 million in investments, said UF President Kent Fuchs.
The College of Engineering will 
now be named the Herbert Wert-heim College of Engineering in honor of Wertheim and his family. 
“This is the beginning of a truly 
transformational gift,” Fuchs said.
At about 9:45 a.m., students in 
sneakers and faculty in business attire squeezed around an orange-and-blue carpet near former Weil Hall, the College of Engineering’s building across the street from Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.Then the marching band 
played.
“Go Gators!” attendees cheered. “Come on Gators, get up and go!”
A cluster of UF faculty, Fuchs, 
Wertheim and his wife, Nicole 
Wertheim, emerged. They smiled 
and waved at engineering stu-dents as they strolled over the carpet and into a large white tent.  Attendees followed, funneling into and around a stage.
College of Engineering Dean 
Cammy Abernathy welcomed the Wertheims, and the crowd ap-plauded.
The money from this project, 
she said, will recruit, educate and empower UF’s engineering stu-dents, equipping them to contrib-ute to the world’s economic and 
societal well-being.
This includes adding new fa-
cilities, esteemed faculty and pro-
grams and research opportunities, Fuchs said.
Hans Van Oostrom, associate 
chair of UF’s biomedical engineer-ing department, said Wertheim’s gift will help UF become a distin-
guished university. 
The money will go toward 
building state-of-the-art facilities 
and purchasing advanced equip-ment, which Van Oostrom said will attract great students.
“This extraordinary gift enables 
growth and ensures the strength of engineering for the beneﬁ  t of generations to come,” he said.
Herbert Wertheim addressed 
the audience, and his ﬁ  rst words were, “Well, gee whiz.”College of Engineering gets $50 million, new name
Justin T ompkins  / Alligator 
Herbert Wertheim dons a Gator jersey with the help of Cammy Abernathy, dean of the UF College of 
Engineering, at a press conference on Thursday. The audience wore orange fedoras in honor of Wert-heim, who donated $50 million to the college.
THE SANTA FE BAND 
DIRECTOR’S LAST 
CONCERT WAS FALL 2013.
By T aylor Park
Alligator Contributing Writer
It had been more than a year since 
Steven Lee Bingham had conducted the 
concert.
The Santa Fe College band director 
last led the annual Winds and Classics concert in Fall 2013, celebrating the 
band he had help grow since his arrival 
in 2005.
Then, in March 2014, Bingham be-
gan his battle with cholangiocarcinoma cancer, cancer in the bile duct, and was 
forced to watch performances from his 
hospital bed as he recovered from sur-gery and later complications.
But Thursday night Bingham took 
to the stage, cancer-free, in the Fine Arts Hall at Santa Fe and conducted the Winds and Classics concert. Donning a tuxedo, he led the band once again, con-ducting seven songs all written by Amer-
ican composers.
While the theme changes every year, 
Bingham selected music by American 
band composers for his return to the 
stage because it ﬁ  t his students.
“It’s always different because you’re 
working with different kids and differ-
ent strengths,” he said. “That’s what makes choosing the music and ﬁ  nding 
a theme so difﬁ  cult — because students’ 
strengths change differently semester from semester.”
As the 32 students performed pieces 
written by composers such as John Phil-ip Sousa, the audience applauded and gave the performers a standing ovation after the ﬁ  nal number, a medley of John Williams pieces.
For Stephen Panella, 20, the success-
ful performance was in part because of Bingham’s return to the stage.
“It was deﬁ  nitely hard not having him 
here,” said the Santa Fe music compo-sition junior and clarinetist. “But since 
he’s been back, it just has taken off 
again. It’s just been awesome.”
For many in the audience, the concert 
wasn’t just about the music.
It was music in the face of a recent 
tragedy and music in the face of a recent recovery.
After the show, Bingham acknowl-
edged not only his cancer survival but 
the death of 10 students in a shooting 
earlier Thursday at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College.
“I’m sorry that the events of earlier 
today kind of put all this in perspective,” Bingham said. “We have an opportuni-ty to get together and make music, but wow, here’s... individuals that won’t have that opportunity anymore.”One year later, he plays again
SEE CONCERT,  PAGE 4SEE ENGINEER,  PAGE 4
Steven Lee Bingham
Santa Fe College Band Director A UF alumnus donated the cash giftSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Beatles-tribute band
The Impostors, Gainesville’s 
beloved Beatles-tribute band, 
will perform Friday from 8 
p.m. to 10 p.m. downtown at 100 SW 2nd Ave. in the weekly Free Fridays concert 
series. The Impostors play a 
wide selection of Beatles fa-vorites from the popular hits of the early heydays through the experimental era of the 
“Revolver” and “Sgt. Pepper’s 
Lonely Hearts Club Band” al-bums to the “Abbey Road” album and the final rooftop 
appearance. The Impostors 
also are known to occasion-ally throw in some great cov-ers of other groups such as The Byrds, The Hollies, Jimi 
Hendrix and the Youngbloods. 
Come listen to live music and dance the night away.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a Disney-villains-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event 
will feature Stuff-a-Dalmatian, 
a hypnotist and a costume contest with Disney prizes. GatorNights will also be host-
ing the movie “Inside Out” at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with breakfast during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free 
for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to partici-
pate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gallery Talk: The State of 
CeramicsVisit the Harn Museum of Art on Sunday at 3 p.m. for a Gallery Talk on the exhibition 
"Into the Fold: Contemporary 
Japanese Ceramics from the Horvitz Collection." UF ceram-ics master's student Mariana Baquero, Bridget Fairbank, 
Christina Carfora and Paige 
Ward will discuss hot topics that accompany artists into the studio and ceramic objects 
into the art market. There is 
free admission and parking. For more information at harn.ufl.edu or contact eking@harn.ufl.edu.Gainesville Interfaith Alliance
The Gainesville Interfaith 
Alliance for Immigrant Justice 
will screen the award-winning documentary film “The Hand That Feeds” at the Millhopper Branch Library at 6:30 p.m. 
Monday. The 2014 film fol-
lows undocumented immi-grant restaurant workers in their struggle for a living wage. 
The film will be followed by 
a discussion of immigration and living-wage issues led by Jeremiah Tattersall and Diana Moreno. Don Smith will mod-
erate the open-audience dis-
cussion. The event is open to the public without charge.
African Americans in Paris 
classOn Thursday at 2 p.m., Sharon Austin, director of the African-American Studies program 
and associate professor of 
political science, will pro-vide information about her African Americans in Paris 
class (POS/AFA 4940) in 
the second floor conference room of the Institute of Black Culture on University Avenue. The two- to three-credit-hour 
course will be offered in Paris, 
France, during Spring Break 2016. Please contact Austin at polssdw@ufl.edu for more in-
formation.
UF School of Theatre + Dance 
Presents "The Drowsy 
Chaperone"
Directed by Tony Mata with 
musical direction by Tony Offerle, this Tony Award-winning musical pays hom-
age to the musical comedies 
of America’s Jazz Age. Music, laughs and surprises abound when a musical-theatre addict puts the needle down on his 
favorite vinyl cast recording 
of the fictitious 1928 musi-cal, “The Drowsy Chaperone.” "The Drowsy Chaperone," on 
stage in UF’s Constans Theatre 
Oct. 16-25, will make you fall in love with the theatre all over again. Performance times are 7:30 
p.m. on Oct. 16-17 and Oct. 
20-24, and 2 p.m. on Oct. 18 and 25. Tickets are $13 for UF students, $15 for UF 
faculty/staff and senior citi-
zens and $18 for the general public. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu/cal-endar. Tickets are available through the University Box 
Office by calling 352-392-1653 
or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation online using #DrowsyChaperoneUF.Talking Gators 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building Room 1031, located 
at 970 Natural Area Drive. 
Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org or the 
Talking Gators Facebook page. 
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club invites you and your friends out to its biweekly les-sons/dances every Monday and Friday. The club will have 
free lessons for beginners and 
intermediates open to every-one. Monday nights the club will be at the Reitz Union 
Breezeway, located at 655 
Reitz Union Dr., with lessons from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and so-cial dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday nights the club is 
at the Unified Training Center, 
located at 809 W. University Ave., with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing 
from 9 p.m. to midnight. If you 
have any questions or would like to get involved, please find the club on Facebook at facebook.com/groups/
FLSDC/. The club hopes to 
dance with you all soon. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 29
HIGH  79° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith,
  Mia Gettenberg
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
LOCAL
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
After it was revealed last month that 
Gainesville Regional Utility ratepayers have 
been overcharged since 2013, city ofﬁ  cials 
took steps forward during a City Commis-
sion meeting Thursday to reclaiming the several hundred thousand dollars lost.
During the meeting, commissioners ap-
proved a request by GRU’s general man-ager to partner with the law ﬁ  rm Akerman LLP to provide legal counsel as the utility company moves to reclaim lost money from Gainesville Renewable Energy Center and 
stop overcharges.The overcharges were the result of the 
Construction Cost Adjuster’s miscalcula-
tion in the city’s 30-year biomass-plant contract with GREC, according to an audit 
released by the City Auditor last month. 
The audit found GREC has overcharged GRU $872,498 since December 2013, when the biomass plant went online — an over-charge passed on to GRU customers, city 
ofﬁ  cials say.  
GRU General Manager Ed Bielarski said 
before the meeting that the amount lost is 
likely higher, as the audit went only until 
July and the report was presented in Sep-
tember.
GREC denies it is overcharging GRU.“There is absolutely no error in the cal-culation of the Construction Cost Adjuster,” GREC Chief Financial Ofﬁ  cer Albert Mo-rales wrote in a statement. “It is calculated exactly per the letter of the agreement, and 
exactly as the parties intended.”
The audit recommends GRU consider 
means to reclaim the money lost in over-
charges and enforce a contract deﬁ  nition of 
the exchange rate, which would save GRU 
$56,826 per month.
Bielarski decided to acquire outside legal counsel following the audit’s recommenda-tions. Further actions are under consider-ation, Bielarski said.
“At this point, we’re still in a dispute 
phase (with GREC),” Bielarski said. Under contract agreements, GRU and GREC have 30 days to resolve the issue, he added.
If an agreement is not reached within 
the timeline, GRU could go to arbitration, 
he said.
Akerman LLP has done prior work for 
the city related to the contract, according to 
the City Attorney’s ofﬁ  ce. GRU will cover 
the costs of Akerman LLP’s services, which 
is not expected to exceed $100,000, using budgeted funds for legal expenses or from unanticipated cost savings.GRU hires law firm to help reclaim nearly $900,000
Alexie Dris / Alligator 
Fast Painting
Izma Nadeem, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, paints the 34th Street Wall on Thursday night 
to promote Fast-A-Thon. Islam on Campus will hold the event Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will honor Hispanic heritage 
with a two-time Grammy nominee 
and a Top Soundtrack song-of-the-year artist.
Dominican-American music 
group Fulanito and rapper Fat Joe will perform at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts at 6:30 p.m. today. The concert is hosted by Stu-dent Government Productions and Hispanic Heritage Month.
This year’s concert theme is 
“Paving Our Visions, Creando un Futuro,” said Victoria Alsina, HHM’s 
carnival assistant director. The 
19-year-old said it will focus on pav-ing a positive future for the Hispanic-Latinx community.
“It is important for us to draw on 
our backgrounds in order to create a future for ourselves that we will be proud of and the Hispanic commu-nity in America would be proud of,” 
the advertising sophomore said.
She said she thinks students will enjoy the performances. Fat Joe has 
memorable hits like “Lean Back,” she said, and Fulanito’s songs are 
great to dance to.
UF family, youth and commu-
nity sciences senior Molly Dubrasky 
said she has never been to a cultural event but is enthusiastic to go.
“The more support the Hispanic/
Latinx community gets from every-one, the more they are able to visual-ize a positive future,” the 22-year-old 
said. “And you know what? Support 
doesn’t cost a thing.” UF brings Hispanic 
Latinx artists “There is absolutely no error in the 
calculation of the Construction Cost 
Adjuster”
Albert Morales
GREC Chief Financial Officer
All About the Artists
 Fat Joe is a Latino rapper raised 
in the Bronx. He learned about rap 
music through his older brother. His real name is Joe Cartagena.
 Fulanito is a Dominican-American 
musical group that has sold more 
than 5 million albums. Its style com-bines traditional merengue (a lively Caribbean-Dominican style) with house, hip-hop and bachata.THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ROSEBURG, Oregon (AP) — A 
gunman opened fire at a rural Or-
egon community college Thursday, killing at least a dozen people before dying in a shootout with police, au-
thorities said.
The killer, identified only as a 
20-year-old man, invaded a class-
room and demanded people stand up and state their religions before spraying more bullets, one student reported.
Authorities shed no light on the 
gunman’s motive and said they were 
investigating.
Oregon Attorney General Ellen 
Rosenblum said 13 people were dead 
after the attack at Umpqua Commu-nity College in the small timber town of Roseburg, about 180 miles south of Portland. It was not immediately clear whether that number included the gunman. State police Lt. Bill Fu-
gate told KATU-TV that at least 20 
others were hurt.
“It’s been a terrible day,” Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said at a news conference. “Certainly this is a huge shock to our community.”
Hours after the attack, President 
Barack Obama spoke to reporters saying the U.S. is becoming numb to mass shootings.
Repeating his support for tighter 
gun-control measures, the president 
said thoughts and prayers are no lon-
ger enough.
Police began receiving calls about 
a campus shooting at 10:38 a.m.
Kortney Moore, 18, said she was 
in a freshman writing class when a shot came through the window and hit the teacher in the head.
The gunman then entered the 
Snyder Hall classroom and told peo-ple to get on the floor, she told the Roseburg News-Review newspaper. He told people to stand up and state their religions before opening fire.
The sheriff said officers had a 
shootout with the gunman, but it was not clear if he was killed by au-thorities or whether he took his own 
life.The gunfire sparked panic as stu-
dents ran for safety and police and 
ambulances rushed to the scene.
Police had students line up in a 
parking lot with their hands over their heads and searched them be-fore they were bused with faculty to the nearby county fairgrounds, where counselors were available 
and some parents waited for their 
children.
The college’s Interim President 
Rita Cavin said it was awful to watch families waiting for the last bus of survivors and their loved ones were not on it.
One of the biggest debates on 
campus last year was whether to 
post armed security officers on cam-
pus to respond to a shooting.
“I suspect this is going to start a 
discussion across the country about how community colleges prepare themselves for events like this,” he said.
There were no immediate plans 
to upgrade security on the campus 
in light of the shooting, Cavin said. Oregon shooting, Obama speaks outCAMPUS
By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of about 20 UF students echoed 
in unison: “Thank you for taking care of 
yourself.”
On Thursday afternoon, the group 
learned the importance of sexual consent through the lens of BDSM, or bondage, dominance, sadism and masochism. Called 
“Kinky Curious: A Gentle Introduction,” 
the workshop was the first of its kind, said Jean Franzblau, the sexual-esteem coach who hosted the workshop and was paid $2,000.
“Imagine if your (sexual) partner said, ‘If you don’t study chemistry, I will spank you!’” the Los Angeles native told the 
students. “Suddenly, chemistry becomes 
sexy.”
Students learned about submissive and 
dominant relationships, safe words, sex toys and the importance of safety in BDSM 
relationships.
Kinky sex can teach people a lot about 
the importance of sexual consent, said Rita 
Lawrence, GatorWell interpersonal vio-
lence prevention coordinator.
“When a kink relationship is done well, 
it consists of people meeting outside of 
a sexual relationship, talking about safe words and what is comfortable for each partner,” she said.
Franzblau said kinky relationships are a 
relevant topic.
“I am so excited because I’ve already 
met so many UF students that are already extremely sexually aware and have an open-mindedness and willingness to learn about the kink community,” she said.
UF international relations senior Caro-
lyn Cesarotti said she helped start Gator-Well’s “Yes Means Yes” seminar, which has a BDSM segment.
“I want to learn more about BDSM re-
lationships so that I have a better under-standing of them,” the 21-year-old said.
Although Franzblau is a Type-A person-
ality, she said she likes being in the sub-
missive role.
“I like being forced to have an orgasm,” 
she said. “Forced orgasms are amazing. 
What could be better than forced plea-sure?”UF students get kinky, learn importance of sexual consent
Wertheim, who founded Brain Power 
Inc. and identified ultraviolet light as a pri-
mary cause of cataracts, said Gator engi-neers should recognize the strength in their degrees.
“You can all be very proud of yourself 
in that you’re following this profession, this avocation, this calling,” he said.
He told students that their education 
comes with great responsibility, as they must solve problems in their communities.
“Being an engineering student is hard 
work,” he said. “It’s not for sissies. You’ve got to be strong, you’ve got to be smart and you’ve got to be dedicated to be an engi-neer.”
Mechanical engineering senior Elianne 
Gonzalez will graduate in December.
The 23-year-old said she’s prepared; she 
already has a job lined up with Exxon Mo-bile.
She said the mentoring programs in the 
College of Engineering prepared her for suc-
cess.
“I can only say good things about the 
college,” she said.Gonzalez attended Thursday’s festivi-
ties, and she said she is excited to see how 
the college uses the $50 million.
“I know that whatever they use the mon-
ey for, it’s going to (the college’s) benefit,” she said.
Right now, classrooms feel too small, 
said UF mechanical and aerospace engi-neering senior Andres Hidalgo.
In his upper-division classes, Hidalgo 
said about 120 students cram into lecture halls. The 22-year-old said he hopes the 
money can be put toward making class siz-
es smaller.
Hidalgo and his friend, UF second-year 
master’s student Leo Caro, attended the cel-ebration.  
Caro, a 25-year-old studying aerospace 
engineering, said he wants more people to donate to the college.
“The opportunities are here,” he said.  
As Wertheim’s gift-giving ceremony 
ended, Abernathy gave him a special gift: a 
Gator football jersey.
He took off his glasses and signature hat 
to pull it over his button-up shirt and tie.
“Herbie, welcome home,” Abernathy 
said.ENGINEER,  from pg1Money will go toward state-of-the-art facilities and equipmentA single lit candle sat on an 
empty chair as the band played 
“Tribute,” written by David Gor-
ham in memoriam of the lives 
lost. After the song’s conclusion, there was a moment of silence before chimes rang out in the au-
ditorium.  
“I know that hit close to my 
student’s home and me,” Bing-
ham said. “Because we’re in a community college, too.”
But even in the wake of trag-
edy there was still positivity and the promise of continued growth and recovery at Santa Fe.
For Bingham’s family, what 
mattered was seeing him con-
duct on stage again.
“Incredible,” said Trudy Bing-ham, the conductor’s wife. “It 
was incredible, especially for ‘America the Beautiful.’”
His father, Hal Bingham, said 
it was a miracle his son was able to conduct.
“Trudy and I both agree that 
he looked sharp,” Hal said.
Bingham said he will now 
look forward to the rest of the 
band’s season.
“I’m very excited to be back 
and around my students,” he 
said. “It sure does beat the alter-native.”CONCERT,  from pg1There was a tribute to 
Oregon shooting victims
Justin T ompkins  / Alligator
UF President Kent Fuchs and UF alumnus Herbert Wertheim pose mid-Gator Chomp 
with a group in front of UF’s College of Engineering on Thursday. The building will be re-named in honor of Wertheim, who recently donated $50 million to the college. 
“When a kink relationship is done well, 
it consists of people meeting outside 
of a sexual relationship, talking about 
safe words and what is comfortable for 
each partner.”
Rita Lawrence
GatorWell interpersonal violence 
prevention coordinator
“I’m very excited to be back 
and around my students. 
It sure does beat the 
alternative.”
Steven Lee Bingham
Santa Fe conductorFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarah Prentice was 11 when her 
favorite wizard was, too.
“I quite literally grew up with 
Harry Potter,” she said.
But Prentice’s teachers told stu-
dents the wizard’s words were sa-
tanic, and they banned students from bringing the book to school.
On Thursday, the “Harry Potter” books, along with about 20 oth-ers, were displayed in front of Li-brary West as part of Banned Books Week, a celebration to highlight lit-erature that has been banned from libraries and schools.
“We’re defending the access to 
information,” said Prentice, a UF graduate who organized Thursday’s open-mic event that allowed any-one to read from a banned book.
Among the pile of books was “The Catcher In the Rye” and “The Hunger Games” series.
“I just think about all of these 
books that I loved,” she said, “and how sad it would be if I never actu-ally had access to them.”
Prentice said there were about 
40 attendees.
UF political science sophomore 
Yousef Alghawi approached the mi-crophone and recited “America” by 
Allen Ginsberg.   
“I’m sick of your insane de-
mands...” the 20-year-old said, his 
voice echoing. “America, stop push-ing. I know what I’m doing.”
Alghawi said he considers the 
idea of censorship absurd.
“Knowledge shouldn’t be ta-
boo,” he said. “You’re taking away part of what makes a person a per-son.”
Prentice said about 35 percent of 
book bans and challenges are car-ried out by concerned parents.
The American Library Associa-
tion tracks these challenges, releas-ing an annual list on its website.
UF English and classical studies 
senior Brianna Tringali said parents should be responsible for teaching their children, not censoring what’s 
around them.
“You’re trying to shield your 
child from lessons they’re going 
to have to learn anyways,” the 20-year-old said after reading from “Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.”
As the crowd dispersed around 2 
p.m., Prentice packed up the books.
“I’m glad I had the opportunity 
to arrange something like this,” she said. “And hopefully somebody goes home and reads a book.”
Rebel Readers
UF celebrated banned books
FAR LEFT:
Andrea Miranda, a 20-year-old 
UF political science junior, ﬂ  ips through a book, “America (The Book): A Citizen’s Guide to De-mocracy Inaction, ” by Jon Stew-art and other “The Daily Show” writers at an event celebrating Banned Books Week on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. She said there was a common theme in all the banned books from the present and past. “They are very liberal or have something against God, ” Miranda said. “Which makes sense in some places. ”
TOP LEFT:
Max Dunevitz, a 19-year-old electrical engineering sopho-more, thumbs though “Literature Suppressed on Social Grounds” by Dawn B. Sova at Banned Books Week celebrations. The event was a good way to “talk about all literature without social context, ” he said. 
MIDDLE LEFT:
Haylee Hammond (left), an 18-year-old pre-pharmacy fresh-man, and Charlie Carrington, an 18-year-old ﬁ  nance freshman, listen to a passage from George Orwell’s book “1984” during a reading at the Banned Books Week event on Thursday. 
Library West celebrates the annual Banned 
Books Week on the Plaza of the Americas by inviting students and faculty to read from their favorite banned books on Thurs-day. Students surrounded a table covered in previously or currently banned books, which came straight off of the library’s shelves. At the end of the table, free pizza was given to anyone who stopped by.
The “Harry Potter” series and the “The Hunger Games” se-ries were just a few banned books laid out for students to peruse at an event celebrating the freedom to read.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Darts & Laurels: wonderful tradition for Friday editions 
of the Alligator or insidious plot to inﬂ  uence the hearts and 
minds of Gainesville residents and UF students? You tell us, 
because even we aren’t sure anymore. With that inquiry out 
of the way, it’s time for this week’s edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
On Thursday, it was reported that Bernie Sanders, the 
Democratic presidential candidate who has been dominat-ing Facebook news feeds as well as the hearts and minds of 
young liberals and progressives all over the country, nearly 
matched purported front-runner Hillary Clinton in fundrais-ing for the third quarter. Sanders raised about $25 million, and Clinton raised about $28 million. However, closer in-
spection of these numbers reveals a more interesting story: 
Clinton held 58 fundraising events to bolster her efforts, while Sanders held only seven.
Essentially, this means Sanders has been making bank 
by actually interacting with scores of voters rather than 
wining and dining loaded donors. For putting the pop back 
in populism, Sanders gets a green, Benjamin Franklin-adorned Laurel.
After the accidental assault on tennis star James Blake 
(who, it must be noted, is black) last month, the New York Police Department has unveiled a new set of guidelines along with some very helpful graphics that outline when it is and is not acceptable to use force when interacting with the public. 
These guidelines are also coming on the heels of an in-
vestigation by the NYPD’s inspector general, who found the NYPD’s training curriculum does not adequately focus on de-escalation of situations.
As too little too late as it may be, we begrudgingly give 
a Laurel to the NYPD. Although we have our doubts about 
the immediate efﬁ  cacy of these guidelines, some change — even on a bureaucratic level — is better than none at all.
A short-but-sweet one: former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush told 
Donald Trump to put on his “big boy pants” during a town hall event in New Hampshire. For meeting childishness with the only response it understands — more childishness — Jeb Bush, in a reversal from the Sept. 18 Darts and Lau-
rels, gets a Laurel.
During and following Thursday’s tragic shooting at 
Umpqua Community College in Roseberg, Oregon, multiple students were tweeting about what was unfolding in order to make sure others were aware. 
Jason Silverstein, a reporter for the New York Daily 
News, tweeted at one such student to ask for an interview in the midst of the chaos. For exercising poor judgment, 
being an insensitive asshole and exhibiting a poor under-
standing of journalistic ethics, Jason Silverstein gets a 
Dart.
Thursday marked the ﬁ  rst day of October, otherwise 
known as the best month in the 12-month calendar. The 
slow, inevitable march of time gets a Laurel for getting 
us this far.
Last but certainly not least, a Laurel to celebrated hip-
hop producer The Alchemist for creating a compelling beat out of nothing but cat noises, the Meow Mix jingle and 
“Trailer Park Boys” dialogue for the song “Creown” on last 
week’s “Run the Jewels 2” remix album, “Meow the Jew-els.” What a time to be alive indeed.Impact wins: We get the government we deserve
As I watched the election results roll 
in live on Twitter Wednesday night, I found myself more and more frustrated, wondering if giving up and embracing cynicism wouldn’t be such a bad idea af-
ter all. It certainly would do a great deal of good for my mental health.
It was frustrating because the whole time I re-
membered the sheer joy of last Spring, when the Student Body overthrew the yoke of one-party dictatorship we had worn long before I had ever set foot on this campus as a student. Just a few months be-fore, any sort of change seemed impossible; in the previous year, the ruling party won 99 of 100 Student Senate seats 
in both elections, and its executive ticket ran unopposed.
Access Party changed all of that.
It took a heroic effort on its part plus some serious work 
and courage. Judging on how politics work in this state, these people were putting their careers on the line by going against the majority coalition.
But the party won! It didn’t just run an effective cam-
paign — it defeated the system for the ﬁ  rst time in living memory (as students).
And I think, for some people, winning that one election 
was good enough.
Why did Impact Party win this time?I wish I could credit Impact’s victory to a mistake on 
Access’ part — that Access underestimated the enemy’s ca-pacity for vengeance fueled by wounded ego and shattered entitlement.
I do think that’s partly true. This was, of course, a coun-
ter revolution. Not a particularly brave one at that — usual-
ly, real-life counterrevolutionaries possess the cojones to be 
honest about what they’re doing. But what the people who run Impact lack in ethics they make up for in intelligence. This is true. They know if they had kept wearing Swamp T-shirts they would have lost this election. So it goes.
Access, for its part, could have run a stronger campaign. 
It lacked the vitality and urgency of Spring 2015, but that still doesn’t explain the whopping loss.That leaves one culprit: us. We, the Student 
Body, are ultimately responsible for this. We had one job: vote the last representatives of a corrupt, cynical and power-hungry machine out of ofﬁ  ce. Instead, we ﬁ  lled Senate with its replacements. 
Impact’s tactics weren’t particularly clever — all 
party members did was change the color scheme from orange to blue and sell us the virtues of one-party rule by ﬁ  at, wrapped in vaguely fascist yearnings for “unity.” But then again, we’re the ones who fell for it.
I don’t know why this is. Are we bored or apathetic? Do 
we not have other uses for the roughly $19 we pay them per credit hour? When we hear about the maﬁ  a tactics, the 
threatening behavior, the corruption so nasty it’d make 
Mayor Daley blush, do we seriously just not give a shit?
The fact is we just put power directly back into the hands 
of people who use Student Government as their own per-sonal resume-ﬂ  uffer. Despite what you may have read from Impact, this isn’t a conspiracy theory formed by “chains of Alligator articles.” Although the Alligator has great cover-age on the subject, you can also ﬁ  nd these facts written in a variety of established, adult-run publications throughout 
the state. Or, you can ask UF alumni about what their SG 
was like. I don’t care. It takes an Internet connection and ﬁ  ve minutes of your time to ﬁ  nd this stuff out on your own. By the way, Impact, I’m ﬂ  attered you mentioned my work — I’ve never been subtweeted on BuzzFeed before — but next time, I hope you have the decency to use my name when you do it.
Anyway, congratulations to all of the candidates. Your 
hard work and/or supplication to an ancient and faceless 
political machine has paid off. Well done. 
On the bright side, there’s only one more election cycle 
until Impact can stop half-pretending to be the shiny new 
party, free of a humiliating loss, growing out of the husk of Swamp. Because, apparently, our political memory only stretches back two weeks anyhow.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column appears 
on Fridays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgWoody & Friends in “SAVING ENERGY ALA WOODY”FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and Fros
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.Reduce your showertime by 2 min.Reduce your showertime by 2 min.Reduce your showertime by 2 min.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
The new battleﬁ  eld in the war 
for women is Planned Par-enthood.
A congressional hearing 
began Tuesday to decide 
whether to halt federal funding of the organization. This suggestion rose from a series of highly edited videos that showed Planned Parent-hood distributing fetal body parts.
Now, hopefully this doesn’t 
come as a shock to you, but yes, the liberal, sex-positive sex columnist is a big supporter of Planned Parenthood. To be quite frank, I don’t 
give a ﬂ  ying f**k that it “sells” body parts or 
that it perform abortions.
Personally, I don’t know what I would do 
without Planned Parenthood. As a freshman who wanted to go on the birth control pill without using my parent’s insurance, Planned Parenthood was there for me.
Like many individuals who use Planned 
Parenthood’s services, I didn’t have a lot of 
money to spend, and I couldn’t easily access 
places far from home. But I was able to take public transportation and walk to the clinic, and I was able to afford the $65 appointment and $25 monthly fee for my prescription.
We’re very lucky to have a Planned Par-
enthood in Gainesville. The staff there is in-credibly helpful, kind and knowledgeable. If it wasn’t for Planned Parenthood, I wouldn’t 
be having the safe sex I have now because I 
wouldn’t be able to afford to pay out-of-pocket for my birth control.
Many clients owe their health to Planned 
Parenthood. The company saves lives by per-forming breast exams and detecting cancer early for those who might not have health in-surance. It protects individuals from pregnan-cy by prescribing contraceptives at a low cost, 
and when a client does get pregnant, it offers 
tests and family-planning services.
Planned Parenthood gives sexually trans-
mitted infection tests so patients can take their health into their own hands, and most offer free condoms in the lobby so everyone has the ability to stay safe. Everything it does often winds up beneﬁ  ting lower-income individuals the most. And yes, often college students like 
us. Yet, Planned Parenthood is only seen as an abortion provider.
Which is true. It does provide 
abortions, which make up 3 percent 
of its  total services. Just 3 percent. Is that number worth defunding an 
important health care resource for 
many Americans? 
No, it’s not. But honestly, it 
wouldn’t be worth defunding Planned Parenthood even if abor-tion made up 100 percent of its ser-
vices. Planned Parenthood deserves funding, regardless if it offers abortion services.
People are going to get abortions no mat-
ter what. People got abortions before it was legal — in back alleyways and in illegal “doc-tor’s” ofﬁ  ces. Making abortion illegal, making abortion inaccessible by closing down clinics, won’t stop abortion. It will only make it more dangerous. All defunding Planned Parenthood will do is limit the choices Americans have as far as their health and force them to make dan-gerous decisions — not getting screened for 
cancer, not taking medicine to treat an STI or 
even, yes, not terminating a pregnancy they cannot support.
I stand with Planned Parenthood because I 
believe in bodily autonomy. I believe my body should have the right to choose — like how dead people aren’t forced to donate life-saving organs, or how people aren’t forced to donate life-saving blood. 
I stand with Planned Parenthood because 
my health matters to me and because I want to have health care options that are affordable and easily accessible.
I stand with Planned Parenthood because 
I and all citizens have the right to make our own choices regarding health care and who we want to take care of us.
I stand with Planned Parenthood because 
the decision of whether to have an abortion is between me, my partner and my doctor.
I stand with Planned Parenthood because I 
know donating fetal body parts helps doctors study genes and ﬁ  nd cures for disease and ill-ness.
I’m on Planned Parenthood’s side in this 
war: Where do you stand?
Robyn Smith is a journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.Planned Parenthood: Worth the stand Column
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org On Wednesday, Prime Minister Josaia Bainima-rama of Fiji addressed the United Nations General Assembly on the threat of 
climate change. As a Paciﬁ  c Island state, Fiji is already experiencing the negative impacts of climate change; Bainimarama spoke of plans underway to relocate some Fijian villages due to rising sea lev-els. He urged the general assem-bly to take action at the upcoming climate change conference in Paris.
Bainimarama’s grievances are well found-
ed. Fiji is just one of many poor countries already experiencing the effects of climate change. A severe drought has cut South Af-rica’s maize crop by a third, and Zimbabwe has cut its economic-growth forecast from 3.2 percent to 1.5 percent due to a drought-plagued agricultural sector.
This drought crisis is only predicted to 
worsen due to the strengthening of El Nino, a weather phenomenon caused by warmer wa-ters in the Paciﬁ  c ocean. Although a natural, cyclical phenomenon, El Nino is intensiﬁ  ed signiﬁ  cantly by rising global temperatures.
Evidence of climate change is clear and 
present. NASA has recorded phenomena ranging from a 17-centimeter increase in average global sea levels to rapid ice loss 
in Antarctica. Yet some politicians either 
refuse to acknowledge its signiﬁ  cance or, worse yet, deny its existence entirely. In the U.S., Sen. Ted Cruz and several others have been known to deny the realities of climate change, claiming it's a hoax that hinders the American economy.  
In the United Kingdom, a 2014 poll of 119 
members of Parliament revealed 53 percent 
of conservative members considered climate 
change a “widespread theory” that had “not conclusively been proved,” and 18 percent even called it “environmentalist propagan-da.” 
I ﬁ  nd this incredibly unfair. It is far too easy for these politicians to refute the importance of climate change because highly developed nations such as the U.S. and U.K. will not be the ﬁ  rst to experience its conse-
quences. Instead, it is poor coun-
tries that will suffer.
Standard & Poor conducted a 
study in which it ranked country vulnerability to climate change. It generated these rankings using factors such as population living 
below ﬁ  ve meters altitude and agriculture as a share of gross domestic product. Countries 
ranked most vulnerable included Cambodia, 
Bangladesh, Senegal and Mozambique. 
These countries lack the infrastructure 
and resources to help its people when rising sea levels and increased temperatures cause ﬂ  ooding and droughts. For many, the devas-tation will be swift and widespread.
Even more outrageous about these poli-
ticians’ denial of climate change is the fact 
that the U.S. and U.K. are among the most 
to blame for the present-day climate crisis. The World Resources Institute ranked na-tions for their cumulative emissions from 1850 to 2007. Topping the list was the U.S. with a contribution of 28.8 percent, while the U.K. ranked ﬁ  fth with a contribution of 5.8 percent. In essence, millions of people in the developing world will suffer because of a 
problem richer nations created.
Climate change is a global problem that 
will undoubtedly need a global solution.  I 
am optimistic about the Paris climate confer-ence in December, but I worry true change will not come if politicians in highly devel-oped nations continue to bury their heads in the sand. 
As Bainimarama said in his address, “It 
is simply not acceptable for advanced econo-mies to build a high standard of living based on the degradation of the Earth and the seas. The time for excuses is over.”
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays. Denying the existence of climate 
change is unfair to poor countriesColumn
Namwan
 Leavell
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
819 W. University Ave
352-872-5655
PROFESSIONAL  
BODY  
MODIFICATIONS,
TATTOO,  &
PIERCING
SERVICES
CRIME
Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
local man Wednesday afternoon 
after he reportedly shot at some-one while his girlfriend and three children sat just a few feet away.
About 12:10 p.m. Wednesday, 
Rafael R. Robinson, 29, started ﬁ  ghting with a man in the 1700 block of SW 42nd St. for an un-known reason, according to a po-lice report.
They stopped ﬁ  ghting after the 
man punched Robinson, opening a cut above his left eye, according 
to the report.
Robinson then reportedly 
grabbed a handgun from his girl-
friend’s car — with her and the children inside — and ﬁ  red sever-al shots at the man, missing each time, before he ran away.
Police soon found Robinson’s 
girlfriend picking him up less 
than half a mile from the Kanga-roo Express on Southwest 20th 
Avenue, GPD spokesman Ben To-bias wrote in an email.
The girlfriend reportedly told 
police she put the gun — later identiﬁ  ed as stolen — in her son’s backpack before dropping it off 
at their Mill Run apartment and then meeting Robinson.
She will like-
ly face charges of being an ac-cessory to the crime, Tobias 
said.
Police arrested Robinson on 
charges of possession of a ﬁ  rearm 
by a convicted felon, grand theft of a ﬁ  rearm and attempted homi-cide, along with three charges of child abuse.
Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where, as of 
press time, he remains in lieu of a 
$900,000 bond.Police arrest man after 
shooting, near children
Robinson
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF professors selected to 
research childhood drug abuse
The National Institute of 
Health awarded two UF profes-
sors a grant to partake in the Ado-lescent Brain Cognitive Develop-ment Study, which will explore how drug exposure and abuse affect children’s academic perfor-mance and mental health.
UF epidemiology professor 
Linda Cottler and psychiatry pro-fessor Sara Nixon will conduct the research, studying nicotine, alcohol and marijuana abuse.
Cottler said the two will inter-
act with 10,000 children between 9 and 10 years old to study how they react to drug exposure.
UF family, youth and com-
munity sciences senior Meghan 
Arahill said although there may 
be controversy because of how young the children are, the study is important.
“I think it’s about time a study 
like this happened,” the 21-year-old said.
Cottler said she and Nixon 
competed with multiple people around the country.
“We’re really proud to be one 
of the sites conducting the re-search,” Cottler said. 
- Rachel HowardUF professor helps reef fish 
survive deep-sea fishing
Recreational ﬁ  shermen may 
be costing reef ﬁ  sh their lives.  
When ﬁ  sh are caught dur-
ing deep-sea ﬁ  shing, their swim 
bladder, which helps them stay buoyant at different sea levels, expands and creates pressure. If the reef ﬁ  sh are thrown into the 
ocean without proper catch-and-
release knowledge, the ﬁ  sh will ﬂ  oat and most likely die, said UF  food resource economics profes-sor Charles Adams, who is a ma-rine-economics specialist for the Florida Sea Grant program.
But the problem can be ﬁ  xed, 
he said.
Fishermen can make a small 
poke in the ﬁ  sh with a venting 
tool, a hollow-needle instrument 
that can help release the gases. Adams said the ﬁ  sh can then swim normally and return to the correct sea level.
Fishermen can also use a 
weighted line that hooks the ﬁ  sh, 
takes them back down and re-
leases them where they should be, he said.
Adams said ﬁ  shermen are 
willing to learn to use these tools because they understand the im-portance of avoiding abuse. 
- Beatriz MartinezFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 Bedroom / Private Bath
Quiet Park
$350 + 1/2 utilities
352-870-9282    10-5-2-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
● ● HOUSE FOR RENT ● ●2927 SW 1st Ave. Across from UF Golf Course   4-5BR/3BA, W/D,DW, cent AC/heat Only $1,775/mo No application fee, all pets ok. 352-258-0025       10-7-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4Roommate-large beautiful T/H
Wanted-non smoker, clean, responsible
Incl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness
10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST 
CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    10-2-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDED
Up to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-ing bar/deli help. Must have reliable transp. Saturday availability required. Applications now being accepted at the 2327 NW 13th street location.    10-5-15-5-14
Work for Subway!Are you looking for a great job with flexible schedules, regular opportunities for raises and opportunities for advancement? If so a job at Subway might be perfect you. We are now accepting applications from friendly people. Simply email subway4gainesville@yahoo.com and write "I'm interested!" in the subject line. Directions will follow via email.   10-5-15-5-14
Attractive & Fit Female Graduates Wanted
for South FL based modeling assignments.
You must be a college graduate, well
spoken, and mature. A good personality is
also required. PT or FT opportunity. You
must be living in or ready to move to South
FL. We can help you plan for your future:
business, health insurance, and retire-
ment guidance is part of our package. Earn
$4,000-$12,000 per month depending on
your motivation and availability. Email your
resume and physical stats to Taylor:
Ms.MiamiModels@gmail.com
10-6-15-5-14
P/T Babysitter for family with 4 kids age 6-12 (not always for all at once). $12/hr. Play, help with homework, dishes, school/activity driv-ing. Experience required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    10-2-15-3-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
CITT Web Services captioning has an 
OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Live & work in Atlanta, rent free!FT Nanny & Personal Assistant needed for Gator grad couple w/ 2 young boys. Good salary + free rent. Email geoff@352inc.com to apply.   10-7-15-5-14
2 volunteers needed to help coach girl's la-crosse team at local high school. Must have min 4 years playing experience. Call Lynn at 352-214-3840 for more info.    10-6-15-3-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    10-2-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    10-2-1-14ATTN: Drivers - $2K Loyalty BonusOver $55k Your First YearStay Cool with Newer KWs w/ APUs   Great MilesCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com     10-2-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    10-2-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 15 ServicesFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    10-2-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    10-2-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    10-2-1-15Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 10/5-10/8 from 5-7 p.m. each day.  Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu or call 392-2010 to register.      10-5-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    10-2-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    10-2-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 “I don’t like it!”
4 Waikiki allure8 Like an old
jalopy
14 Chemical suffix
15 Hesse-based
automaker
16 Reporter’s coup17 Man-mouse link18 Angry young
man’s fate?
20 Hill stint
22 Hershey bar
23 Bygone political
entity that
included Syr.
24 Hercules, e.g.?28 South African
golfer with four
major
championships
29 Be quite
prevalent
30 Polite response
to Aunt Polly
32 Seasonal
affliction
33 Ingolstadt-based
automaker
35 Crude carrier
39 Result of a
Caribbean
sanitation strike?
44 Poet Sexton45 Popular melt
meat
46 Einstein’s birth
city
47 50-50, to Fifi51 __ Council:
“Survivor”feature
53 Rush56 Proprietary
paperwork?
59 “Well done!”
analog
60 Pacific feast61 Drudge62 Ready-to-hang
Cubist painting?
67 Indian state that
was part of aformerPortuguesecolony
68 Tamsui River
capital
69 Excited about,
with “on”
70 “Monsters, __”
71 Magellan’s
milieux
72 Breyers
competitor
73 RequireDOWN
1 Regional
organisms
2 Stimulant
trademark
3 Jalapeño product,
for some?
4 San José sun
5 News org.6 Court charge
caller
7 Soft tissue8 In front of9 Many sports
commentators
10 Bee: Pref.11 Chapeau seen in
“Ratatouille”
12 Quotidian13 Jury members19 “__-doke!”21 Apennines
possessive
25 Ship loading site26 Word on a bill27 Old writings
mentioning Odin
31 Open __32 Org. requiring milk
pasteurization
34 The Bronx’s
Jerome Ave. lineis part of it
36 Mixture that
dissolves gold
37 Rare twosome of
July 201538 Pro __40 Pro’s support41 1984 Nobel
Peace Prizewinner
42 Regarding43 Innocent48 Big name in
mustard
49 Wolf-headed
god
50 One covering
tracks, perhaps
52 Hit on the head53 Book with steps54 __ crest: pelvic
border
55 Like H.P.
Lovecraft stories
57 Tremble58 Oreos, say63 Org. monitoring
endangeredspecies
64 Letters of proof65 Turn that’s hung66 Chekov’s “Star
Trek” rank: Abbr.
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/02/1510/02/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 2, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 PersonalsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports. The Florida men's and women's cross country teams will send runners to both the Florida State Invitational and the Joe Piane Notre Dame Invitational. Read the story on pg. 16.By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
While Florida has Jon Bullard 
anchoring its defensive line, Ole 
Miss has a player whose pure tal-ent has others in awe: Robert Nke-mdiche.  
“He’s a freak,” former LSU de-
fensive lineman and current SEC Nation co-host Marcus Spears said. 
“Honestly, those types of guys 
come around every so often.”
Nkemdiche is the defensive player UF coach Jim McElwain has been asked about the most leading up to tomorrow’s game against the Rebels. 
Nkemdiche is a load to handle. Listed at 6-foot-4 and weighing 
in at 296 pounds, the junior defen-sive lineman has the physical tools to be a nightmare for opposing of-fensive lines.
McElwain said the Rebels do a 
great job of putting Nkemdiche in the right situations to maximize his 
skillset.  
“Power, explosion, (and) where he’s supposed to be in gap control 
and not trying to make things up,” McElwain said. 
While Ole Miss doesn’t have 
the most impressive stats in the nation — its three sacks rank a paltry 118th in the country — the defensive front still puts opposing offenses in tough predicaments.
“The third down and 11-plus 
and the third down and 7 to 10 reel is forever,” McElwain said. “That’s an indicator that they’re winning 
on ﬁ  rst and second down.”
What separates Nkemdiche from other top defensive linemen 
is his versatility, though. Not only will he line up inside along the de-fensive line, but in pass rush situ-
ations where Ole Miss uses him to 
pressure the quarterback. 
Spears compared Nkemdiche’s 
versatility to that of former Gator and third overall pick in the 2015 NFL Draft, Dante Fowler Jr.   
“When you have a guy that 
gives you so much multiplicity on the next level, they value that at 
a high rate,” Spears said. “Dante 
Fowler was a guy that you could put in a lot of different positions to create havoc defensively and Nke-mdiche is that guy.”  
This season, Nkemdiche has 
15 total tackles, good enough for eighth best on the team, along with 4.5 tackles for loss, second most on 
the team behind his brother, Den-
zel.
While his 0.5 sacks through 
four games don't jump off the stat sheet, McElwain said it’s his ability to disrupt the run game that makes him such a valuable piece to Ole Miss’ defense.
“It’s not as much he’s a great 
pass rusher, but how disruptive he is in the run game,” McElwain said.
Robert has also been used on 
offense, scoring three touchdowns this season. In goal line packages, he has lined up as a full back and scored twice. 
He also caught a pass in the 
season-opener against Tennessee-Chattanooga and took it 31 yards for a touchdown.  
But it’s on the defensive side 
where he makes his name known. 
McElwain said the offense has 
a tough task Saturday and that it’s going to take a group effort to slow him down.  
“This guy’s strength, he just 
one arm’s guys. These aren’t just little guys,” McElwain said. “These are 320-pound O-linemen. He’s a good one."FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gatorade 50th anniversary to be recognized Saturday
Florida is commemorating the 50th birthday of Gatorade with a 
presentation at Saturday night's football game between the Gators and Ole Miss. Dr. Dana Shires, Dr. Alex de Quesada and Dr. Jim Free, who, along with Dr. Robert Cade, developed Gatorade, will be in attendance. AP Photo
Mississippi defensive tackle Robert Nkemdiche (5) pursues Vanderbilt quarterback Johnny 
McCrary during the first half on Saturday in Oxford, Mississippi. 
Defensive tackle crucial to Rebels' dominanceFLORIDA VS. OLE MISS
THE GATORS WENT 2-1 DURING 
THEIR RECENT ROAD TRIP .
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Different day, same routine.
Show resilience, bounce back and show 
that the team can push through adversity – 
all sentiments of a team that is struggling to 
put away opponents this season.Conceding a goal in the 
ﬁ  nal moments of Sunday’s 3-2 loss to Auburn, Flori-
da’s soccer team looks to 
move on from their second 
Southeastern Conference defeat of the year and build upon their recent 
home-ﬁ  eld success.
The Gators (8-3-0, 2-2-0 SEC) return 
home tonight, hosting conference foe Ken-
tucky (9-2-1, 3-1 SEC) at James G. Pressly Stadium at 7.
Compiling a 2-1 record over a recent 
three-game road trip, the Gators managed 
to outscore Florida International, Vanderbilt 
and Auburn by a total of 11-6. 
What’s done is done — shifting her fo-
cus from the past to the future, coach Becky Burleigh is excited to see how her team can 
learn from its mistakes.
“I think it will be great to back at home,” UF soccer hoping to rebound from SEC loss We’re five weeks into the 
2015 college football sea-son, and we here at the al-
ligatorSports Brand Picks 
Column are anticipating 
Florida’s matchup with the Ole Miss Rebels. 
The Gators pulled out a come-
from-behind 28-27 win over the Ten-nessee Volunteers last week, and coach Jim McElwain is looking to be-
come the first UF coach to open his 
first season with a 5-0 record since Steve Spurrier did it in 1990.  
Now the undefeated streak will be 
tested against a No. 3 Ole Miss team that is a legitimate national cham-pionship contender after a victory against then-No. 2 Alabama.
Debating Saturday’s Stanford vs. 
Arizona game are alligatorSports edi-tor Graham Hall and Alligator man-aging/online editor Jordan McPher-
son. 
Stanford (-14.5) will win 
because…
After opening its season with a 
disappointing loss to Northwestern, 
the Cardinal have looked like a com-
pletely different unit. 
Stanford went into Los Angeles 
and beat then-No. 6 USC handily. 
Quarterback Kevin Hogan and 
running back Barry Sanders Jr. have 
led an offense that wears opponents down with physicality and aggres-siveness.
 If Arizona can’t slow down what 
may be the best team in the Pac-12, Stanford wins with ease. 
—Graham Hall
Arizona (+14.5) will cover 
the spread because...
The Wildcats know how to get the 
ball in the endzone. While its defense has been putrid this season, Arizona 
leads the Pac-12 in both scoring of-
fense (48.3 points/game) and total offense (555.5 yards/game). PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16Burleigh
Running back Nick Wilson 
will test Stanford's stout run de-
fense and whoever starts at quar-
terback — starter Anu Solomon 
is questionable after suffering a concussion against UCLA — will need to make timely plays to 
keep the Wildcats in contention 
for the win. 
But after being exploited in 
last weekend's 56-30 beatdown by UCLA, Arizona won't be able 
to run away with this one. 
However, with the offense do-
ing more than holding its own, 
the Wildcats should have no 
problem at least covering the 
spread.
—Jordan McPherson
Now on to the picks!
We have a two-way tie for first 
this week, both sporting 18-13-1 
records.
To start off is Gator Coun-
try’s Nick “NCAA violation” de la Torre, who intentionally tried to entice McElwain into accept-
ing a free Dunkin Donuts coffee, 
knowing it could possibly be an NCAA violation. 
We don’t know what your mo-
tives were, Nick, but we don’t like you or your coffee handouts. 
Tied with Nick is the Palm 
Beach Post’s Anthony “I love commuting” Chiang, who makes 
a weekly commute from “Miami” 
to Gainesville to cover the Gators. 
But we don’t sympathize with 
you, because driving on Inter-state-75 at 5 p.m. is more enjoy-able than growing up in unincor-
porated Dade County. It sucks 
that you had to do both. In third place with a 17-14-1 
mark is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “Sore loser” Thompson, who wouldn’t drop his gripe that Graham Hall wouldn’t change the 
line in the UF-Tennessee game 
after the suspensions were an-nounced. 
Come on Edgar, it’s just for 
fun! You were more upset than 
Chris Harry having to file a story 
using a dial-up connection. 
In fourth place is alligator-
Sports editor Graham “Picks incompetent” Hall who has an-nounced his resignation as picks column commissioner after we all found out he doesn’t under-
stand lines. 
Hey Graham, for the sake of 
this column, can you please have 
someone teach you about gam-
bling other than 10-21-1 Hack?
Tied with Hall for fourth place 
is Alligator managing/online edi-
tor Jordan “Sleeping on the job” 
McPherson, who fell asleep at the 
office on Tuesday night. 
Jordan and Butch Jones 
should hang out, as they are both 
specialists at sleeping on the job.
In sixth place with a paltry 12-19-1  record is 247Sports.com’s 
Thomas “Online medical degree” 
Goldkamp, who has become 
McElwain’s go-to man when he has an injury to report. 
McElwain recently gave Gold-
kamp a flier to sign up for an on-line medical degree, and sources tell us Goldkamp’s family might finally be proud of him. 
But don't get your hopes up, 
Thomas. 
It seems unlikely. 
Coming in at seventh place 
with a record of 11-20-1 we have 
alligatorSports assistant editor Luis “check out my package” Torres, who implores anyone he meets to take a peek at the pack-
age he made for his TV class. 
If you can’t even get 30 likes 
for your professional page, what 
makes you think we will watch 
your incoherent package?
And still in dead-ass-last with 
a piss poor record of 10-21-1, we 
have alligatorSports staff writer 
Graham “Lame Duck” Hack, who 
supposedly has the worst record through four weeks in Alligator Picks Column history. 
This lackluster effort is worse 
than Tennessee’s fourth quarter performance on Saturday. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
PICKS,  from pg14
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF vs Ole Miss (-7.5)  MISS  UF  MISS  UF
Mizzou (-4) vs SCar  MIZZ  MIZZ  SCAR  MIZZ
TCU (-15) vs T exas  TCU  TCU  TCU  TCUUGA (-2) vs Bama  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA  UGAClemson vs ND (SPLIT)  ND  ND  CLEM  CLEM
TAMU (-7) vs Miss St  MSU  MSU  MSU  MSU
Okla. (-7) vs WVU  OKLA  OKLA  OKLA  OKLA
T enn (-6.5) vs Ark  TENN  TENN  ARK  ARK
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF vs Ole Miss (-7.5)  MISS  UF  MISS  MISS
Mizzou (-4) vs SCar  MIZZ  SCAR  MIZZ  MIZZ
TCU (-15) vs T exas  TCU  TEX  TCU                   TEX
UGA (-2) vs Bama  BAMA  UGA  BAMA  UGA
Clemson vs ND (SPLIT)  ND  CLEM  ND  CLEM
TAMU (-7) vs Miss St  TAMU  MSU  MSU  MSU
Okla. (-7) vs WVU  WVU  OKLA  WVU  OKLA
T enn (-6.5) vs Ark  ARK  TENN  TENN  TENN16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015
Now in downtown 
Gainesville INSIDE the 
Sun Center
101 SE 2nd place
352 - 215 - 1363
Open for lunch!
Burleigh said. “Seems like it’s been a while since we’ve 
been here so we’re kind of excited about that.”
Last season, Florida dropped two SEC road contests, 
including one at the hands of Kentucky.
Returning to Gainesville in the wake of that 2-0 shut-
out loss, the Gators clamped down, wiping out SEC op-ponent Tennessee 3-1 on a Friday night in October.
Sound familiar?Looking for a bounceback performance, senior de-
fender Claire Falknor is looking for the team to lock down in its defensive third. 
“Our offense is looking great,” Falknor said. 
“And it’s good that we can come back from being 
down a lot of goals but it’s one of the key things we 
need to work on and lock down in order to get better as a team.”
To this point, the Gators are 3-1 at home, the lone 
defeat coming at the hands of No. 16 Texas A&M on Sept. 10. 
Aiming to tighten up on defense, Falknor wants her 
teammates to avoid dwelling on Sunday’s road loss.
“Hopefully we can shut them out and just dictate the 
offense,” Falknor said. SOCCER,  from pg14Gators working on 
improving defenseCROSS COUNTRY
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Finishing in second place at home is 
nothing to celebrate, but the UF men’s 
cross country team is determined to take something positive from the loss.
Two weeks ago at the Mountain Dew 
Invitational, the team was beaten by a total of one point by the University of North Florida. 
Some runners might dwell on the past 
and let it deﬁ  ne them, but this group has tried to avoid falling into that trap.  
“I feel like Mountain Dew was kinda 
a wake-up call for ‘em,” cross country coach Paul Spangler said. “I think there’s 
a renewed sense of motivation or focus, 
and the men have looked good since Mountain Dew.”
According to Spangler, the team’s re-
newed focus has not only had a mental effect but also a clear, physical conse-quence.
“We’ve looked a lot better at practice 
since Mountain Dew and Jimmy (Clark) 
has looked a lot better so the men, I think, are in a pretty good place right now.”
And they’ll need to rebound in a big 
way this weekend, as the team’s A-team 
is heading to South Bend, Indiana, to compete in the Joe Piane Notre Dame Invitational.
This meet, which will feature several 
nationally ranked programs, could count 
toward UF’s advance-ment to regionals if they don’t place in the 
top-2 in the Southeast-ern Conference. 
It's different from 
the team’s ﬁ  rst two meets, which were es-sentially warm-ups. 
Spangler has spo-
ken extensively about how being “too sharp” early in the year can lead to a dra-
matic drop-off, which would be unfortu-
nate considering the ﬁ  rst two meets don’t count towards the postseason. 
However, while the Gators still plan 
to exercise some restraint, Spangler ex-pects it to be the team’s sharpest meet yet.
“We’ll be a little bit sharper for this 
meet. I mean, this is an important meet for us. It’s an opportunity for us to earn some at-large points if we need those 
come regionals.”
The women’s team will also travel to 
South Bend and will be looking to con-
tinue the success that saw them take ﬁ  rst place at the Mountain Dew Invitational. 
While Spangler once thought that his 
team was overly top-heavy and lacked much depth beyond the ﬁ  fth spot, he’s been pleased to see that while the 1-2-3 
spots continue to be a cut above the rest, 
the 4-9 spots could all beat each other on any given day.
“Whereas before I felt like our top-
ﬁ  ve were pretty set in stone, now we’ve got a couple girls in Lauren (Brasure) and Maddox (Patterson) who are closing the gap to our ﬁ  fth. So that’s encouraging,” he said.
While the men’s and women’s teams 
will both send nine representatives to Notre Dame to compete today at 2:45 and 2:00 P.M. respectively, the rest of the available runners from both teams will travel to Tallahassee for the FSU In-vitational, which will also be held today. Race time is 7:40 A.M. for the men and 8:20 A.M. for the women. UF emphasizing focus before meets
Clark
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
