VOLUME 109 ISSUE 102 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Barbergators belted out for V-day
The quartet sang around Gainesville as part of 
the local Valentine’s Day festivities, pg. 9. UF named seventh best public school
The ranking was compiled by The Business Journals, pg 8.  
Texas family continues search for dog after bison scare
They’re offering a $2,000 reward, pg 9. 
74/58
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13UF admitted  the 
Class of 2019 on 
Friday. Check out the 
stats comparing the 
incoming and 
outgoing classes 
on page 3.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
A group gathers to participate in a vigil on Turlington Plaza on Friday night in memory of the victims from the Tuesday shootings in Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
CAMPUS
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
The Gator Nation will be getting its own version of “The 
Interview.”
James Franco will be coming to campus for a moderated 
conversation with UF journalism professor Mike Foley. The 
event will begin at 8 p.m. Feb. 25 in the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center and is hosted by Accent Speaker’s Bureau.
Franco is an actor, writer, director and producer known for 
“Pineapple Express” and “The Interview.”  He recently de-buted on Broadway in “Of Mice and Men” 
and teaches courses at University of Cali-fornia, Los Angeles, University of Southern 
California and California Institute of the Arts, according to an Accent press release.
Accent chairman Corey Flayman said 
Franco has a unique background to share with students.
“He’s very multifaceted,” Flayman said. 
“He has experience not only acting but writ-
ing, directing.”Franco is being paid $85,000 for the appearance, Flayman 
said.
Amalie Batchelder, a UF journalism freshman, has been a 
Franco fan since she watched “Howl” at age 14.
“I think he’s done a good job of being involved in really cre-
ative and interesting projects,” Batchelder, 18, said.
She said she has seen all of Franco’s movies and TV shows 
and hopes he will talk about how he prepared to play poet Al-len Ginsberg in “Howl.”
Seating for the event, which is free and open to the public, is 
ﬁ  rst come, ﬁ  rst served. Doors will open at 7 p.m.James Franco’s next Interview is coming to UF
Franco
 MORE THAN 100 WENT.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
In the shadow of Turlington, 
they prayed.
They knelt and bowed, only 
the melodious chants of the 
Quran heard early Friday eve-
ning.
It was a daily observance of 
Muslim prayer, but that night it 
had a different meaning.
The prayer was a prelude to 
a UF vigil for the three victims of the Chapel Hill shooting. Stu-dents and UF faculty arrived at 6:30 p.m. on Turlington Plaza 
to pay their respects to Deah 
Barakat, 23, his wife, Yusor Abu-Salha, 21, and Abu-Salha’s sister, Razan Abu-Salha, 19.
Craig Hicks, 46, reportedly 
shot the three University of North Carolina students over a parking dispute — but for many in the Muslim community at UF, 
it’s viewed as a hate crime.
“Deah could have been me,” 
Sameer Saboungi, who orga-
nized the vigil, told the crowd. “How can these regular Ameri-cans like me lose their lives so suddenly because of their reli-gion?”
For Saboungi, 20, a UF inter-
national studies junior, the vigil was a way for the UF community to come together and reﬂ  ect on what happened.
“This tragedy is not going to 
go away quickly,” he said. “But this vigil was a way to express our condolences and frustration. We had to do this to remember.”
More than 100 candles were 
lit and distributed to the partici-pants. As they listened to Mus-lim community members read passages from the Quran and speak about the shooting, many cupped the ﬂ  ames with their hands to protect them from the cold wind.
Shan Ahmad, a UF materials 
science and engineering junior, spoke about meeting Barakat when he visited his brother at UNC Chapel Hill. He said his brother, Asad, called him at 3 a.m. after Barakat didn’t attend an intramural basketball prac-tice.
“He was extremely pious, 
very kind,” Ahmad, 20, said. “This wasn’t a guy who would ﬁ  ght over a basketball game, let alone a parking space. To boil it down to a simple dispute is a dis-UF community comes together to remember Chapel Hill
SEE VIGIL, PAGE 4
MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writer mmihm@alligator.org
Today is the voter registration deadline 
for the March 17 City of Gainesville Elections.
Gainesville residents can verify and up-
date their voter registration status online at the Vote Alachua website, according to a press release. The Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce, located at 111 SE First Ave., is open and accepting applications from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
“Each of us must participate in our demo-
cratic process in order to keep it strong,” Su-pervisor of Elections Pam Carpenter wrote in an email. “If we don’t participate we allow others to choose for us.”
An after-hours drop-off is available at 
the main entrance for those who can’t make it during regular business hours. Voter reg-
istration applications sent through the mail 
drop will be accepted up until midnight to-day.
As of press time, there are 74,447 regis-
tered voters in the City of Gainesville, Car-penter said. In 2014, there were 72,017.
Steven Hollis, 20, said he’s excited for the 
upcoming elections.
“If you don’t know what’s really going 
on, it’s hard for you to get a better grasp of what’s going on in your community,” the UF economics junior said. “You can’t beat the election day frenzy.”Voter registration ends today for City Commission election 
The March election is for District 1, at-large seatsNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 102 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.FORECAST
FRIDAY
SUNNY
57/35SUNNY
50/25THURSDAY
SUNNY
57/33WEDNESDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/58RAIN
67/38TUESDAY TODAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Financial aid is awarded on a 
first come, first served basis so apply as early as possible 
to be considered for the most 
and best aid. In order for UF Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a finan-cial aid package, you must 
be an admitted student and 
have met the on-time dead-line. For more information or assistance with complet-
ing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.
ed.gov or contact your fi-nancial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to kwiggins@alligator.
org. To ensure publication in the next day’s news-paper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter above events, and keep them to 150 words or few-er. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION
In a story from Jan. 30 that 
ran under the headline “Registration to open for up-dated, six-hour-long MCAT soon,” the Association of American Medical Colleges was incorrectly referred to as the American Association of Medical Colleges. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The Curators of Hip Hop’
Join us today at 7 p.m. at 
the Civic Media Center at 
433 S. Main St. for a screen-
ing Q&A with the direc-tor of “The Curators of Hip Hop,” followed by live per-
formances from Florida em-
cees Dynasty, Vintage Tux, Marley The Messenger and DJ Robzilla. Inspired by the motivation to preserve hip-
hop culture and its artists, 
the “Curators of Hip Hop” tours through the lives of five “dreamers” looking to 
make a mark in the hip-hop 
world. The cost is $10 to $20.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays
Talking Gators meet today at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the 
Entomology Building off of 
Natural Area Drive, east of 
the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art. For more information go to talkinggators.toast-
mastersclubs.org. Talking 
Gators is also on Facebook. 
The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive and positive learning experi-
ence in which members are 
empowered to develop com-
munication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal 
growth. All are welcome.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Want 
to improve your writing 
skills while making new 
friends? Then come to the 
Creative Writing Club ev-
ery Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 014. 
Meetings involve reading 
and responding to a short 
story written by a member of 
the group and then discuss-ing the story with the whole 
group with a focus on con-
structive criticism. There are 
no requirements to join; just 
come and have fun with us.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration is now open 
for Yes Means Yes, an in-terdisciplinary, interac-tive, non-credit, five-week, 
student-facilitated seminar 
that encourages meaning-ful, engaging discussions on consent and sexuality. Make your campus safer, have din-
ner on us and increase your 
sexual satisfaction! Meets are Thursday evenings March 12 through April 9 from 6:30 to 
8 p.m. For more information 
and to register, go to gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Feb. 26 with a multimedia presentation by the chair-man of the Yale University Music Department entitled 
“Tampa Red and Hokum 
Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum. 
Admission is free.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, 
the Women’s Student Association and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are excited 
to unveil our “Be a Game 
Changer” video contest. Help educate UF on how to intervene to end sexual 
violence. So show us your 
best bystander scenarios in a public service announce-ment video format and you could win up to $550 
in UF Bookstore gift cards. 
Deadline for submission is March 1. For official rules and eligibility, visit gator-
well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Facsimiles of Medieval 
Manuscripts on exhibit at 
Smathers Library Gallery
On view now through 
March 6 is the “Beast in the Book: Animals in Jewish, Christian, and 
Islamic Illustrations from 
the Middle Ages” exhibit. The exhibit encourages the viewer to reflect upon the ways in which the illustra-
tors combined high art and 
imagination along with didactic messages. The Smathers Library Gallery is 
located on the second floor 
of Smathers Library on campus. Hours are Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m, unless otherwise 
specified. The exhibition is 
available online at exhibits.uflib.ufl.edu/beasts.
Apply Now for 2015-16 
Financial AidTo apply for financial 
aid, complete the Free 
Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. 
UF’s on-time deadline to 
receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is March 15. 
Apply well before March 
15 to ensure that the fed-eral processor has time to analyze and send the re-sults of your FAFSA to UF 
Student Financial Affairs. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqMONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
2019new class of
2015old class of
Applications  30,800
GPA   (avg)  4.3
SAT  (avg)  1918
ACT (avg)  29
Accepted  13,667Applications  29,269
GPA (avg)  4.3
SAT  (avg)  1963
ACT  (avg)  30
Accepted  11,423
Alligator StaffCAMPUS
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Friday the 13th was a 
lucky day for 13,667 stu-
dents.
UF sent out its admission 
decisions for the class of 2019 
Friday. There were a total of 
30,800 applicants, 28,070 of whom applied by Nov. 1, UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email.
The average GPA of the 
admitted students was 4.3, 
the average SAT score was 1918, and the average ACT 
score was 29.
Innovation Academy ad-
mitted 346 students to its 
next class, and 3,118 were 
admitted to Pathway to Cam-
pus Enrollment, or PaCE.
Orlando said degree-
seeking students selected for 
PaCE will enroll in UF On-
line for at least two semesters 
and complete a minimum of 
15 credit hours online.
“PaCE allows us to of-fer admission to additional 
qualiﬁ  ed applicants with 
academic potential and dem-
onstrated success,” he said.
Coral Reef Senior High 
School seniors Noah Miller 
and Arn Xu have been best 
friends since their sopho-
more years, when they had 
the exact same class sched-ule.
On Friday, they found 
out they both have the op-
portunity to join The Gator 
Nation.
Miller, 18, said he was a 
little nervous before deci-sions came out. After check-
ing his acceptance email at 
6:05 p.m., he took to Insta-gram, instantly receiving 50 “likes.”
He said if they decide to 
go, there is a good possibility they will room together.
This was Xu’s ﬁ  rst college 
acceptance.
“This is where the next 
part of our lives begin,” Xu, 17, said.New Gators excited 
to take on UF as 
the class of 2019CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
The tap-tap-tap-tap of clogging 
shoes could be heard from outside 
the Alachua County Fairgrounds’ warehouse on Saturday afternoon.
Gainesville’s first-ever clogging 
festival attracted everyone from toddlers to seniors with one thing in common — a knack for the high-energy, toe-stomping folk dance.Event host Andy Howard said 
he discovered 47 active clogging teams in Florida. The Florida Clog-ging Festival, featuring workshops and a competition, aimed to give dancers a chance to qualify for na-tional competitions in Nashville, Tennessee, and Asheville, North Carolina.
“When I was young, clogging 
was huge in the state of Florida,” Howard said. “For the last four 
years there has not been an oppor-
tunity in (Florida) for dancers to qualify for nationals.”
Howard, also director of Ameri-
can Racket clogging team, began clogging when he was 8.
“Clogging is known for be-
ing multigenerational,” he said. “There’s 3-year-olds and 83-year-
olds and everything in between.”
A group of dancers kicked their 
feet up and tapped their heels 
against the asphalt at the field lot outside the competition’s stomping grounds. The Clogging Connection competition team commuted from Plant City, Florida, the night be-fore.
Debbie Conn dictated which 
dances went next while her son Ja-mie coached ten dancing women.
“It’s a family team,” Conn said.For Jocelyn Ivey, clogging com-
petitions are no big deal. Ivey, 5, said she doesn’t get nervous.
“I imagine like we’re just prac-
ticing at the studio,” she said.
Inside, a line of blue curtains 
separated the backstage area from the rest of the warehouse. The tap-ping of metal against concrete grew louder and louder as groups of two and three practiced their routines.
Ivey, sporting light blue jean overalls adorned with red sequins, held onto a plush rabbit named Clogging Brownie.
“I’m doing four dances,” she 
said, before skipping off in her child size 10-and-a-half white 
shoes.
Divided into age groups and 
style of clogging, Howard com-
pared the tournament to a cheer-leading competition. 
But at clogging events, team 
members participate in various dances ranging from solos to group dances.
Solo dancers compete against 
one another based on age group. They stand in a line in front of the judges, then rush toward them when the music starts. Each clog-ger shows off his or her style in fast-paced steps. Some throw high kicks, while others balance on their toes until the dancers are called 
back into line.
Then, one by one, they perform 
alone.
While clog-dancing duos and 
teams tap their toes and heels in 
synchronized routines, the judges look for precision, creativity and enthusiasm.
“I look for sound and rhythm,” 
Tori Obryant, one of the judges, said. “You want to make sure it’s clear. You want to be able to hear the feet.”
The five-hour long competition 
yielded positive results.
All eight teams qualified.4, ALLIGATOR � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff
A group of clog dancers performs at Gainesville’s first clogging festival on the Alachua County Fair -
grounds on Saturday. Eight teams competed in the Florida Clogging Festival and every team will ad -
vance to two national competitions.
The event began, ended with prayer
honor to them.”
While roughly one-quarter of 
the crowd wore hijabs, Matt Epstein was one of many non-Muslim stu-dents who attended the vigil in sup-
port of their Muslim friends.
“I came to show support for hu-
manity. Hate is hate, and it shouldn’t be toward anyone,” said Epstein, a 
19-year-old UF philosophy sopho-more. “But it’s beautiful to watch — that something so terrible can pro-duce something so beautiful.”
The support of the non-Muslim 
community was appreciated, said third-year UF dental student Nora Abdel-Rahim.
“This was the best way to show 
our support, to show our solidarity as a school, as one voice, as one com-munity,” Abdel-Rahim, 23, said. “You don’t have to know them to feel sorrow.”
By 7 p.m., the candles were 
blown out. As friends hugged good-bye and bystanders walked off, a group of 15 stayed behind.
In the shadow of Turlington, 
they prayed.
VIGIL , from page 1Eight Florida teams qualify for national clogging competition
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
On Tuesday, UF students 
can attend the only two-sided debate during Spring elections.
The Freshman Leadership 
Council, an organization within 
SG, will host a debate between 
the executive candidates of Swamp Party and Access Party on Feb. 17 in the University Au-ditorium.
The FLC has hosted the de-
bate since 2006, but according to Alligator archives, the annual event was cancelled last Spring because only Swamp Party had 
a full qualifying ticket.
Shane Randel, the 21-year-
old FLC chairman, said the 
purpose of the debate is for stu-dents to learn about the parties’ ideas for UF.
“We want to spread the 
message that whether you’re 
affiliated or learning about SG 
for the first time, the debate is really for you,” the UF business administration and sports man-agement senior said.
The event starts at 6 p.m., 
but doors open at 5:30 p.m.
Melody Zargari, director of 
Student Government Outreach, 
said the debate will last about 
an hour and be moderated by UF journalism professor Mike Foley.
The 19-year-old said each 
party will have two minutes to answer each question and the other party will have one min-ute to respond. There will be 10 
questions.
“It’s definitely one of the 
most amazing opportunities 
I’ve had at the University of Florida,” said Zagari, a UF international business sopho-more.
Audience members will also 
have the opportunity to ask 
questions through Twitter and 
Facebook by using the hashtag #UFdecides.
Questions about their par-
ties and platforms are directed to the executive candidates.
The executive candidates 
for Swamp Party are Joseph Michaels for Student Body president, Tia Smart for Stu-dent Body vice president and Hadar Arazi for Student Body 
treasurer.
Access Party’s executive 
candidates are Joselin Padron-
Rasines for Student Body presi-dent, Kevin Doan for Student Body vice president and Nicho-las Carre for Student Body trea-surer.
Elections are Feb. 24 and 
Feb. 25 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.FLC to host only two-
sided debate TuesdayEMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested three people early 
Saturday morning after they reportedly had cocaine 
and a gun in their car.
At about 1 a.m., Jon Anthony Bivins, 28, was 
driving on West University Avenue with Earnest 
Jordan, 45, and Nicole Lawrence, 36, when police 
stopped them for running a stop sign, according to a police report.
Officers noticed a plastic bag and a razor blade in 
the car, according to the report. 
Both tested positive for cocaine. Bivins then told 
police he did not have a driver’s license and was ar-rested for driving with a suspended license.
An officer then searched Jordan and found the 
inside tube of a ballpoint pen with burnt ends and a bundle of copper mesh in his back pocket, which according to the report are typically used for smok-ing crack cocaine.
Another officer noticed a gun by Jordan’s leg, ac-
cording to the report. Police arrested him after con-cluding the gun was stolen and discovering Jordan had nine felony convictions.
Police searched the rest of the car and found a 
to-go box with two pieces of uncut cocaine, weigh-ing about 6.4 and 6.9 grams. Officers also found a plastic bag with 0.1 grams of cocaine, according to the report.
When police searched Lawrence, they found 
copper mesh and a glass tube with burn marks in her bra. After it tested positive for cocaine, police also arrested her.
Because of the amount of cocaine in the car and 
$860 in cash found on Bivins, police concluded that it was an attempt to sell cocaine.
Police also noticed the car had stopped at a car 
wash near New Life World Tabernacle Church on 133 SE 10th St., according to the report.
Police arrested Bivins on charges of possession 
of cocaine with intent to sell within 1,000 feet of a church, possession of drug paraphernalia and driv-ing with a suspended license. 
Jordan was arrested on charges of carrying a 
concealed firearm and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. 
Lawrence was arrested on charges of possession 
of drug paraphernalia. 
Officers took the trio to the Alachua County Jail. Lawrence was released on her own recognizance 
at about 3 p.m. Saturday. 
As of press time, Bivins remained in jail in lieu 
of a $110,270 bond, and Jordan remained in lieu of a $65,000 bond.3 arrested with crack in bra, to-go boxLOCALALI ECKERLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
For a group of UF students, 
work is actually rocket science.
The National Science Foun-
dation Center for High-Perfor-
mance Reconfigurable Comput-
ing, or CHREC, has created a 
computer that NASA will use in three upcoming missions in 2016 and 2017.
Alan George, creator of 
CHREC and a UF professor of electrical and computer engineer-ing, said the CHREC Space Pro-cessor, or CSP, is what collects and sends the satellite’s data to earth.
“Space computers are the 
heart of every spacecraft,” he said.
George said it was designed 
using a hybrid approach, com-bining radiation-hardened elec-tronics, fault-tolerant computing and higher-grade commercial electronics. This is the first time these technologies have been 
used to create the space proces-
sor.
The radiation-hardened elec-
tronics means the CSP won’t break down or malfunction in the radiation-filled universe. Fault-tolerant computing is a fact-checking mechanism. The CSP uses high-grade commercial electronics, which also keeps the cost down.
As a result, George said the 
CSP will process and update fast-er, which makes it suited for real NASA missions.
“UF technology from UF re-
search has been adopted by them and is being featured by them,” he said, “and that’s really how we see our role in the space pro-
gram.”
George said creating success-ful technology for space missions 
is the ultimate challenge.
“It’s like New York City: If 
you can make it there, you can make it anywhere,” George said. “Every place else is easy by com-parison.”
This project involves about a 
dozen undergraduate students and six graduate students. George 
said the ratio is rare — usually there are more graduate students.
The centerpiece facility for 
CHREC research is Novo-G.  In development at the UF site of CHREC since 2009, Novo-G is the most powerful reconfigurable su-percomputer in the known world.
James MacKinnon, a 28-year-
old UF first-year graduate student, built the CSP camera system. His work has earned him a future 
spot with NASA’s Goddard Space 
Flight Center.
“The CHREC lab has really 
caused me to push myself and 
learn more than I would ever learn 
in my classes,” MacKinnon said.
Chris Wilson, the leader of 
CSP’s student team and a third-
year Ph.D. student focusing on hybrid space computing, said CSP 
is an ongoing project and will con-
tinue to have the support of the 
CHREC.
“We’ll probably continue plan-
ning missions and doing stuff un-
til people say, ‘No, we’re sick and 
tired of it, we need a new one,’” 
Wilson, 26, said.
He said George would say, 
“That’s the beauty of the research 
we do.”
“I think it’s definitely been a 
journey,” Wilson said, “but it’s 
definitely given everyone the con-fidence that we can build what we have now and actually tackle a lot more complicated missions.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Pictured is the CSP-ISEM, one of the computer systems that will go up on a NASA mission to the International Space Station. The UF students who are part of the Center for High-Performance Re-configurable Computing helped make it.
CAMPUSUF students help build computer for upcoming NASA missions
“It’s like New York City: 
If you can make it there, 
you can make it anywhere. 
Every place else is easy by 
comparison.”
Alan George
CHREC creator and UF electrical 
and computer engineering professor Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.58 TOTAL VOTES39% S.O.
61% Chocolate
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: On Valen -
tine’s Day: Significant other or 
chocolate? Today’s question: Do you know any baby Gators?
Heartbreaking 
week for journalists, 
consumers
Last week was a terrible one for the news industry.
In what felt like a single, terrible swoop, we lost four 
of journalism’s most distinguished and beloved lumi-
naries. Two tragic deaths, a resignation and betrayal of trust 
took these people away from us.
After public contradictions to Brian Williams’ account of 
his helicopter being shot down while covering the Iraq War, 
a litany of numerous inconsistencies and what appear to be 
outright fabrications were uncovered. Brian Williams was put 
on a six-month leave without pay. On paper, the suspension is supposed to be temporary, but it’s not too far of a leap to 
assume this will be the end of his career. 
To see the reputation of this beloved and respected broad-
cast journalist tarnished with shame was a bad enough way to start off the week. Then, Jon Stewart made his tearful declara-
tion that he’s leaving the Daily Show later this year. The next 
day, Bob Simon, a highly decorated 60 Minutes correspondent 
who rode one of the last helicopters out of Saigon and docu-mented the genocide of the Bosnian War, was killed in a car 
crash in Manhattan.
When media critic David Carr collapsed in The New York 
Times offices and died later Thursday night, it was the final 
dark moment in a terrible week for journalism. Carr was ven-erated by thousands and was an inspiration to young writers and journalists everywhere, and his passing was every bit as 
devastating as he was inspiring. Following news of his death, 
a sort of massive wake was held for him online, with hundreds of writers and news outlets mourning the great man en masse.
Last week’s events are just cause to feel dejected. Those 
days were terrible to endure, but we shouldn’t dwell too long on this upsetting news. We’ve lost these great figures, but not their example or inspiration.
Much of what makes this sad is, of course, are the circum-
stances of their departure — death and scandal are inherently 
upsetting. But much of it, too, is that these men had been such 
steady presences in our national consciousness. Jon Stewart has been hosting “The Daily Show” for 16 years, and millions of people looked to Brian Williams to hear the news, pure and 
unbiased. They were major parts of our weekly, if not daily, 
routines — trusted and revered personalities who stood out from the vastness and the noise.
Like the first time doing your own laundry, or looking for 
apartments in a city on the other side of the country, change of this magnitude is incredibly daunting. But it’s probably not going to be so bad. We’ll mourn Carr and Simon, and in ear-nest for Williams’ redemption. And Stewart will still be with us, probably directing some bomb-ass movies. As for us, we get to carry on and enjoy the work of the up-and-coming gen-
eration of big-name journalists and support responsible out-
lets which will ensure their legacy survives.Valentine’s Day is over; let’s move on
And so a time of year that many hopeless roman-
tics and romance hopefuls look forward to all year comes to an end. 
Meanwhile, others are glad it’s over and that they 
can move on with their lives without having to deal 
with this dreadful “holiday” for another year.
It’s been said before, but the lesson has obviously not 
been learned. Feb. 14, although it has some sort of spe-
cial significance to us, is a day like any other in the year. We shouldn’t get so flustered over it.
Don’t get me wrong, I love Valentine’s Day, but for 
the same reason I hate it. While it does give people the opportunity to express their emotions with those they otherwise would not have had the courage to do so, this is the only time some people see fit to try to be decent 
human beings. 
I see it happen with Mother’s Day, Christmas and 
even Easter, but this one bothers me especially. 
Maybe I’m asking for too much, but I like to be ap-
preciated on some of the remaining 364 days of the year, too.
Valentine’s Day has its history rooted in the Roman 
holiday Lupercalia, but it certainly has become a lucra-
tive and profitable business with time. 
After mass production made it possible to produce 
large quantities of greeting cards and chocolates, it has been a constant source of income for these industries every year. 
According to the Greeting Card Association, an es-
timated 1 billion Valentine’s Day cards are sent each year, making it the second largest card-sending holiday of the year. 
And aren’t sickeningly sweet morsels and trite cli-
ches spewed across cardstock what love is really all about?
Every year people make a fuss about finding the per-
fect gift. So what is the right pres-
ent for your significant other? Flowers? Chocolates? Teddy 
bears? For starters, there is no 
perfect present. But as someone 
who has seen her fair share of cheesy and impersonal presents throughout the years, honestly, the best ones 
are the least expected. 
For future reference, try giving your special someone 
something few others would know they truly love or 
enjoy by showing that you really listen and care. And the best gifts are those involving inside jokes or remind-
ers of what you have shared or memories you wish to 
create.
All of the generic Valentine’s Day presents are popu-
lar for a reason and will impress anyone just by merely 
showing that you thought of them, but they will only 
go so far. 
Flowers die, chocolates get eaten, and teddy bears 
collect dust. 
But the golf balls you stole when you played putt-
putt on your first date hold memories of that first kiss. A welcome mat to put on the front door of your first apartment together is a symbol of a future you would like to create together. 
There is no perfect present, but if the person is, the 
gift will be regardless.
Here’s to hoping you all had a great weekend, re-
gardless of any affiliation with a lucratively construed holiday. 
If it didn’t turn out the way you planned, do not fret. You have an entire year to give people presents and 
tell them exactly how you feel about them. 
After all, we are college students on budgets, and all 
heart shaped candy went on sale Sunday.
Sol Angel Canal is a UF English junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSol Angel Canal
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7
They were losers. They lost. But 
in a twisting turn of events, they won.
In August, Mountain Ridge Little 
League from Las Vegas lost in a pain-fully close baseball game against a Cin-derella team from Chicago, Jackie Rob-
inson West.
The team was made up entirely of 
black players who banded together 
during their exciting run to claim vic-tory over Mountain Ridge in the U.S. 
championship game.
However, it was revealed Wednes-
day that this Cinderella team from Chi-
cago might have actually been better 
suited to play the part of the wicked 
stepmother.
Little League Baseball stripped the 
U.S. championship from Jackie Rob-inson West after it was determined 
the team’s manager and coach had re-
cruited players who did not live in the geographic area assigned to the team. As a result, management was suspend-
ed and the Cinderella team the whole 
country had rooted for are champions no more. The clock struck midnight in Chicago.
That brings us to the question: Who 
is the new champion?
Mountain Ridge Little League de-
served to win the U.S. championship. 
They played by all the rules and 
used eligible players. They faced a su-per team in the championship game that never should have been allowed to form. Six months after a heartbreaking loss, Mountain Ridge received the title 
they should have won in the first place.
But the feeling will certainly not be 
the same.
There will be no victory parades or 
invitations to meet President Barack 
Obama at the White House. There will be no trophy presentation or interviews with Matt Lauer on the Today show.
Mountain Ridge won, but they lost.
For athletes — especially young ath-
letes — winning is an experience like 
no other. If you win, you can brag to all your friends. You can post a photo with 
the trophy on Instagram and watch as it gets dozens of likes. These may seem 
like trivial things, but to young kids who still feel the need to be accepted by society and find their place, it means everything.
For the kids on the Jackie Robinson 
West team, this setback will be devas-tating. It was not their fault the adults — and I use that term loosely — chose 
to cheat instead of play by the same 
rules as everyone else. Those kids don’t deserve to be punished for something they had no control over.
For the players of Mountain Ridge, 
this “win” will not make up for months of wondering, “What if I had made that play?” or “How will we come back from this?” Win or lose, those kids can’t 
feel like they want that trophy when it 
has already been tainted by so much manipulation and lies.
It is a shame when cheating becomes 
a part of youth sports. But let’s face it — 
professional sports have not been set-
ting good examples lately. I’m looking at you, Bill Belichick.
Because of this incident, the players 
of Jackie Robinson West Little League will have to constantly defend any suc-cess they achieve. They will continually pay for the actions of individuals who should not be allowed back into the 
sport.
In a similar way, the players of 
Mountain Ridge Little League will 
place a championship trophy in their 
trophy case they did not win by their 
own merit. Their team’s name might be engraved on it, but that trophy will be a constant reminder of their shortcom-ings against that Cinderella team from 
Chicago.
Being Mountain Ridge Little League 
in the coming months will be no fairy 
tale, but those kids deserve to know 
that, fairy tale or not, their story is not 
over.
Erica Brown is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.Being Mountain Ridge Little 
League: from loss to ‘win’Column
Colorado has had recre-
ational marijuana legal-ized for one year now, 
and its effects are still hard to determine. Many questions 
still remain: Did it bring in expected tax 
revenue? Were there any devastating unex-
pected consequences? Should other states follow suit and legalize pot? Many in Flor-ida are looking into Colorado’s experiment to find support for legalizing marijuana, but the evidence may not be totally available yet.
Data from the Colorado Department of 
Revenue indicates that sales for pot were approximately $700 million in its first year, which ended up equating to about $44 mil-lion in tax revenue. That sounds like an im-pressive figure, but the initial estimate for tax revenue was actually $70 million, so the state only achieved about two-thirds of its goal. 
Still, to go from zero dollars in tax rev-
enue to $44 million in a year is nothing to ignore and should be something that in-trigues Floridians. That tax revenue could go toward education, improved infrastruc-ture and other projects that would benefit Floridians.
Unfortunately, Florida’s fight for mari-
juana legalization would be an uphill battle, and voters would need more justification than just a little extra tax revenue. 
Many Floridians are still not comfortable 
with the idea of pot being legal, and public disapproval would need to be curtailed. Flo-ridians are even uncomfortable with medi-cal marijuana being legal, evidenced when Amendment 2 failed to receive 60-percent approval from the voters last November. 
With trepidation this high in Florida, a 
massive campaign aimed toward altering public perception of the drug would need to be initiated before anyone could dream of 
getting pot legalized.
Another factor that may make Floridians 
anxious about a move this bold is that legal-
izing marijuana doesn’t guarantee the black market will go away. Colorado has come to 
realize this. Competition still exists; while 
the state taxes pot, sellers in the black market do not, so their prices are lower. 
Pat Oglesby, a former congres-sional tax staffer, described the scenario perfectly: “If there is untaxed medical pot, the taxes 
are voluntary. When you make it voluntary, 
people won’t necessarily pay.”
There are numerous other problems that 
could arise due to recreational pot legaliza-
tion. Many people worry that it could make it easier for kids younger than 18 to get their hands on it. And many are afraid that more people will be out on the road driving under the influence. 
These concerns are legitimate, but we 
shouldn’t let fear dictate public policy. No change this substantial would be expected to run flawlessly, and there would be hard-ships to overcome, but legalizing pot is an endeavor that should be considered in the name of liberty.
I have a deep-set belief that we should 
be free to do whatever we want — as long as we are not causing any harm to others — which is why legalizing marijuana is so in-triguing to me. It’s about giving liberty back to the people because when we have liberty, we are free to pursue happiness. 
This belief in liberty doesn’t begin and 
end with marijuana. When we have lib-erty when it comes to marijuana, marriage, school choice for our kids, defending our-selves and our families, and almost every other aspect of our lives, people will be able to prosper.
That doesn’t mean I don’t believe some-
thing like legalized pot wouldn’t have stipulations to ensure safety. Its legislation would need to have strict protocols for the government, harsh punishments for mis-handling by individuals and businesses, and language that aims to diminish the size of the black market. 
All of this is achievable with smart leg-
islation, and hopefully Florida will have 
the opportunity to legalize marijuana in the 
next decade with improvements from Colo-rado’s flaws.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and politi-
cal science senior. His column appears on 
Mondays.Legalizing marijuana still a 
challenge for Sunshine StateColumn
Erica Brown
opinions@alligator.org
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org THE RALLY WAS PART OF 
GLOBAL DIVESTMENT DAY.
PATRICIA ROSARIO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The cry heard around the world 
Friday was “divestment!”
From the streets of Nepal and a 
flash mob in Barcelona to the Plaza 
of the Americas at UF, the message on Friday morning was clear. As cli-mate change continues to intensify, so do the actions of protesters for a more sustainable future.
Despite the chilly weather, 
crowds of students and guests chanted “invest to divest,” as they 
rallied in front of Library West in 
honor of Global Divestment Day, an international campaign that en-courages large institutions such as businesses and universities to stop investing in fossil fuels.
The event brought out more than 
60 students, five guest speakers and live indie rock music from a local artist called Moose.
Anna Cesarotti, a UF sustainabil-
ity studies junior, held a sign that read “4 degrees warmer = millions under water” as she stood front-and-center chanting with her bare toes in the grass.
“A lot of us are living on this 
planet as if we had another one to go to,” Cesarotti, 21, said. “Divest-ment for me means a second chance to make things right.”
Students lined up with Sharp-
ies to sign the “Divestment” banner that organizers of the event vowed to present to the university board. It hung from the brick wall outside of 
Library West.
Matt Williams, director of the UF 
Office of Sustainability and Energy 
Integration, spoke about the Ameri-can College and University Presi-dent’s Climate Commitment that was signed by former UF President Bernie Machen. It committed the university to measuring and moni-
toring its greenhouse gas emissions 
and developing a plan and date for carbon neutrality, which is when the amount of carbon emitted by an in-stitution is offset by planting trees or other “sinks” that trap carbon.
“Ours is 2025,” Williams said. 
“The University of Florida has been a leader in terms of its approach to 
climate change, so it is a very ag-
gressive date but one that we think is potentially attainable.”8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
Patricia Rosario / Alligator
Ricky Brockway, a 21-year-old independent musician, sings in front of Library West on Divestment Day, 
an event put on by I.D.E.A.S for UF. The event was part of a global movement against fossil fuels.
Max Eisenberg / Alligator
Loopy Riffs
Zach Deputy, a musician based in Georgia, plays at The Jam on Thursday night. Known for his audio-looping skills, Deputy played guitar while re-cording loops on the spot.
PRISCILLA OSORIO
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is lucky No. 7.
UF ranked in the top 10 of The Business 
Journals’ 2015 rankings of public colleges in the U.S. out of 484 schools.
The schools were rated in the categories of 
selectivity, advancement, prestige, costs, di-versity and community. UF received 5-star rat-ings for all categories, except diversity, which earned two.
UF was ranked behind the University of 
Michigan; University of North Carolina; Uni-versity of Virginia; College of William and Mary; University of California, Berkeley; and University California, Los Angeles.
“I think it’s indicative of how much hard 
work has been done over the years to get us to where we are,” UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
Orlando said the university has come a long 
way since he earned a bachelor’s degree in po-litical science in 1986. 
He said the UF faculty contribute to the high 
placement because they are dedicated, talented individuals who take their jobs seriously.
“The most important yardstick of the uni-
versity is the quality of the education students receive because that’s our No. 1 job,” Orlando said.
UF is ranked as Florida’s top public univer-
sity, followed by Florida State University at No. 31 overall. Jacob Lehman, a UF computer sci-ence senior, said he thinks UF has many strong qualities, including the vast number of clubs 
and the overall atmosphere of the university.
“We have a really good balance in education 
and sports for our different programs,” Lehm-
an, 21, said.UF named 7th best public school
CRIME
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested 
a local woman early Friday af-ter she reportedly hid cocaine in her vagina and marijuana in her purse.
Just before 1 a.m., Tonia Wat-
son, 34, was a passenger in a sil-ver Kia driving on Northwest Sixth Street. Police stopped the car for weaving between lanes, according to a police report.
When officers spoke with Wat-
son, she told them she had mari-juana in her black leather purse. 
After searching the purse, police found a bag with about 2.3 grams 
of weed, a 2-inch straw and a bag with cocaine residue.
Watson was then arrested, ac-
cording to the report. When po-lice asked Watson if she had any more cocaine on her, she said, “I have some on me,” and told po-lice she had a bag of cocaine hid-den in her vagina.
Police took Watson to the 
Alachua County Jail, where she removed a plastic bag with about 0.8 grams of cocaine and a 2-inch-
long straw from her vagina.
“Sometimes folks think that 
officers will not search these ar-
eas,” GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. “But we know that it is a common place for hiding contraband.”
Police charged Watson with 
possession of a controlled sub-
stance and possession of less than 
20 grams of marijuana. She was released from jail Friday night af-ter meeting a $14,000 bond.Woman charged for possession 
of drugs hidden in purse, vagina 
UF students, guest speakers rally in support of divestment“Sometimes folks 
think that officers will 
not search these areas. 
But we know that it is a 
common place for hiding 
contraband.”
Ben Tobias
GPD spokesman  SHAWN LARSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Silence the alarm. Slide out of 
bed. Take a shower. Shave.
Put on lotion, brush teeth, pol-
ish shoes, put on tuxedo.
It’s 9 a.m. and time to go.  
This is the annual Valentine’s 
Day routine for the Barbergators, 
Gainesville’s chapter of the Bar-bershop Harmony Society. 
On Friday and Saturday, four 
Barbergators quartets traveled all over Alachua County spreading love and joy throughout the com-munity by delivering love songs 
for the Seventh Annual “Valen-
tine’s Singing” fundraising event.
One of the quartets is made 
up of the Barbergators includes lead singer CJ Shaw, bass Tyson Adams, tenor Michael Roth and baritone Bob Tucker.
“I just enjoy going up there 
and performing, and I love see-
ing the people’s reactions because 
they do smile, and you can see the gleam in their eyes,” Shaw,  28, said.
The proceeds from the Bar-
bergators performances help pay for singing coaches and other ex-penses, Roth, 63, said.
All eyes were on the road as 
the quartet belted out love songs on their drive to Corizon Health, located on the second floor of the Bank of America building in Northwest Gainesville. 
Their crisp, cardinal-red vests 
and ties illuminated the room with color. Roth blew the pitch, and the awkward silence broke.
The first song — “Heart of 
My Heart,” a 1926 love song by Ben Ryan — oscillated with the rhythm of the quartet’s move-ments while the group’s soft tones reverberated throughout the room and into the halls.
After the melodies tapered to a 
close, there were a few teary eyes, 
an abundance of red faces. Then, 
a roar of applause erupted.
The quartet sang to Sue Ellen Lauret, a registered nurse at Cori-zon Health.
“It was overwhelming, excit-
ing and a tear-jerker,” she said. “It was beautiful.”
The Barbergators have been 
to restaurants, schools, offices, 
homes and nursing homes, Roth 
said. 
“That’s kind of the beauty of it 
— we get to travel,” he said.
Scott Chatten, vice president 
of music and performance for the Barbergators, said he believes that “as much as you’re getting enjoy-ment from listening to us sing,   
we’re getting as much enjoyment, 
or more, out of your reactions.”
“The musical style of the bar-
bershop harmony is pretty dis-tinct and uniquely an American style,” Roth said.
Among the four singers, there 
are about 40 years of barbershop quartet experience.
“Make ’em cry,” he said. 
“What I am after is that tugging at the hearts strings.”
 HE’S BEEN MISSING SINCE FEB. 3.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
When Doug Ashby decided to walk Bear at the La 
Chua Trail at Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park, he as-
sumed it was a safe place to bring his rat terrier.
Ashby, who traveled to Gainesville with his wife, 
Cindy, for a business seminar, said older people were 
walking the park trails.
And it was safe, until a bison crossed Ashby and his 
30-pound, black-and-white dog’s path.
“I didn’t want to run to agitate him,” Ashby said. “I 
stayed still.”
Ashby said the bison came toward him and rammed 
him in the back, tossing him and Bear into a nearby ca-
nal. Struggling to stay afloat in his coat and hiking boots, Ashby made a split-second decision to let go of Bear’s 
leash.
“He just took off. He was spooked. I don’t know why 
nobody stopped him,” Ashby said, frowning. He’s told 
the story one too many times. 
Bear has been missing since Feb. 3.Ashby and his wife called pet private investigator Tammy Wozniak-Reed instantly.
“That first week, Doug, Cindy and I literally spent 
every single night and day here — without sleep,” Woz-niak-Reed said.
The trio set up feeding stations and motion-censored 
wildlife cameras throughout the park. The last con-firmed sighting was at Boulware Springs Nature Park, two days after Bear went missing.
“We need sightings,” Wozniak-Reed said.Bear is skittish but smart, Ashby said. He has hope 
that his dog of three years is able to find water and food.
Sara Vinson heard about Bear through posts on a 
Gainesville Pet Finder Facebook page. Mother to four dogs, Vinson felt inclined to help.
She reached out to other volunteers via Facebook and 
took part in all-day searches Friday, Saturday and Sun-day. There have been a few leads, but nothing solid has surfaced yet.
Wozniak-Reed said it’s not uncommon for dogs to go 
missing for weeks without being detected.
“We’ve been looking like crazy,” said Ashby, who 
drove back to Texas last week but returned this week-end to search for his dog.
The Ashby family is offering a $2,000 reward. Any-
one who sees Bear can call 214-597-5315 or 214-597-5299.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff
A flier depicting Bear, a 30-pound rat terrier, hangs on a wooden 
pole on Sunday morning in Boulware Springs Nature Park, the last place he was sighted. Bear went missing on Feb. 3.
Gainesville Throwbacks
Feb. 21, 1985
Joel Buchanan, a UF graduate student from Gainesville, set out 
to tell the stories of historically black communities in town. He interviewed members from the community, some as old as 92, to lay out the groundwork for his doctoral thesis on black education 
trends. In his research, he found that artists like Louis Armstrong 
and politicians like George Washington Carver traveled through Gainesville.
Feb. 15, 2000The Gainesville City Commission denied downtown clubs the 
ability to stay open past 2 a.m. by stopping alcohol sales and call-ing themselves dance halls instead. The ordinance’s definition of a dance hall is a place “where alcohol is not sold but music is played, 
dancing is permitted and admission is open to the public with pay-
ment of a cover charge.” There were no clubs in Gainesville at that time that were considered dance halls.
Texas family continues search for dog after bison scared him offSHAWN LARSEN / Alligator
From left: Michael Roth, 63, CJ Shaw, 28, Tyson Adams, 47, and Bob Tucker, 59, all members of the 
Barbergators, sing “Heart of My Heart,” to Lingyan Li, 44, a scholar from China and Tucker’s fiancee. Li will leave the U.S. on March 2, “So we appreciate how special this time together is,” Tucker said.
LOCALBarbergators belt it out for V-day
Alligator File Photo
The Goodie Mob perform at the UF bandshell in a concert sponsored by UF Student Government.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Volunteers of America is offering free, all-
inclusive housing for homeless veterans in a friendly, supportive atmosphere. Please call Woody at 352.642.8313 for immediate move-in!    2-16-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    2-19-15-5-2Luxurious Jackson Square2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1600/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-
10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
`
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Blueprint LSAT is hiring! $15/hour
Blueprint LSAT is hiring students to flyer
on and around the UFL campus for 2-5 
hours a week (make your own schedule). 
Flyers will be provided. Very flexible!
2-18-15-5-14
We are looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking individuals
for the summer semester.
Positions include:
Floor Instructors
Receptionists
Kid’s Club Attendants
Housekeeping / Sparkle Crew
Zwurly’s Cafe
Internships also available 
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
or any of our three locations
2-16-15-2-14Signature Tutoring Services is looking for  
great tutors to work with students between February and March. Our students need tutoring in all subject areas through the AP level. The tutor will be responsible for teach-ing the curriculum provided by the students' full-time schools, and for ensuring that the students are completing and submitting their academic work on time.  Students and tutors work in person or via Skype.Send your resume toMgiglio@signaturetutoring Signaturetutoring.com          2-20-15-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/16-2/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to teaching -
center.ufl.edu and “Study Skills” to register.     2-16-5-20
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
UF swim geared to start SECs
The Florida swimming and diving team is prepared 
to start the five-day SEC Championships in Auburn, Alabama. Competition begins Tuesday.The Florida women’s basketball team fell to Mississippi State on Sunday. Read the story at alligatorSports.org Florida loses by one point again
The Florida men’s basketball team fell 63-62 to Texas A&M on Saturday in College Station, Texas. It was UF’s fourth straight loss and its second loss in a row decided by one point.JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Dalton Guthrie didn’t have butterflies 
when he stepped up to the plate on Sunday.
After going 2-for-8 and striking out twice 
in No. 6 Florida’s first two wins against 
Rhode Island, Guthrie handled his own in the series finale.
The freshman second baseman and lead-
off hitter knocked down four hits on five at-bats as the Gators defeated the Rams 6-1 at McKethan Stadium and finished their sea-son-opening sweep.
“It’s just getting comfortable,” Guthrie 
said. “After playing with the same team for four years, it’s a little different transitioning, but I feel like I’m getting more comfortable and fitting in better.”
In addition to his four hits on Sunday — 
two of which were doubles — Guthrie also scored three runs and recorded an RBI and 
a stolen base.
“Everything he does is full tilt,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “He’ll never give you 
a bad effort down the line.”
The Gators (3-0) plated 37 runs over the 
three-game series — including a 22-run out-burst on Saturday.
The total marked the most runs scored 
in UF’s opening three games since Florida 
brought in 40 runs against Cincinnati to 
open the 2006 season and tied for the sev-enth most in the program’s 101-year history.
“When you’ve got a chance to sweep 
a team like Rhode Island that’s a lot older than us, considering we played five fresh-men, we feel really good with where we are,” O’Sullivan said.
Rhode Island (0-3) recorded nine hits in 
the series finale, matching its total from the first two games combined.
But the Rams hit themselves into two 
double plays and left five runners on base, getting their lone run on a solo home run from outfielder Nick DeRegis in the fifth in-ning.
“It was big. They were especially play-
ing for pride,” Guthrie said. “They came out 
(Sunday) ready to play.”
A.J. Puk, who started UF’s first two wins 
at first base, earned the win on the mound 
after giving up just one run in 4.2 innings. The sophomore left-handed pitcher gave up six hits and two walks while striking out four of the 19 batters he faced. 
“I felt really good,” Puk said. “I was hap-
py to be out there.”
Outfielder Harrison Bader finished the 
three-game series going 7-for-12 at the plate with three home runs, two doubles and 11 RBIs.
The junior recorded at least two hits and 
two RBIs in each game this weekend.
For photos from the opening weekend, see 
page 14.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Dalton Guthrie bats during Florida’s 22-3 win against Rhode Island on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. The freshman second baseman 
went 4-for-5 at the plate during Sunday’s 6-1 win and finished the weekend with six hits, two doubles, an RBI and a stolen base.
Florida sweeps Rhode Island to cap season-opening weekend 
RYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer @RyanSummers18
 A sense of disappointment struck 
the Florida men’s golf team after fin-
ishing fourth in the SunTrust Gator Invitational this weekend.
The Gators, hosting their only 
home tournament of the year, entered the weekend with hopes of competing for first place but fell a little short.
The team finished fourth overall, a huge jump from last year’s 11th place fin-ish, but the Gators still felt like they didn’t 
play their best this weekend.
“We just haven’t been playing 
great,” coach J.C. Deacon said. “We didn’t play great at TPC, we kind of just hung in there and grinded it out and we came in second. You play UF men’s golf finishes lone 
home tourney in fourthSOFTBALL
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
 Lauren Haeger would probably want to fol-
low the advice of the late Ernie Banks.
Banks, a Baseball Hall of Fame inductee 
who played for the Chicago Cubs in the 1960’s and died on Jan. 23 at the age of 85, expressed 
his desire to play doubleheaders every day be-
cause of his love for the game.
“It’s a beautiful day for a ballgame,” Banks 
used to say. “Let’s play two.”
And if doubleheaders meant Haeger would 
perform as well as she did on Sunday against Iowa and N.C. State, the se-nior would probably want to 
play two every day as well.
In the Gators’ sweep of 
the Hawkeyes and the Wolf-pack, Haeger went 4-for-5 in the batter’s box with 4 RBIs. 
In the circle against N.C. 
State, the senior threw a complete-game shutout as 
she struck out 10 while giving up three hits over seven innings.
“For her to go out and throw out a shutout Senior has solid outing in 
Florida’s doubleheader sweep
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15SEE GOLF, PAGE 15“Everything (Guthrie) does is full 
tile. He’ll never give you a bad effort 
down the line.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach
Haeger
UF Golf14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
Alex Harris / Alligator Staff
Photo above: Logan Shore pitches during Florida’s 9-1 season-opening win against Rhode Island on 
Friday at McKethan Stadium. Shore tossed five scoreless innings, leading the Gators to the win.
Photo right: Harrison Bader (8) goes to high-five teammate Logan Shore (32) after hitting his second 
home run in UF’s 22-3 win against Rhode Island on Saturday. Bader finished the weekend with three home runs and 11 RBIs.
Photo below: Florida players and coaches stand along the third-base line while the National Anthem 
plays before Saturday’s game. Florida swept Rhode Island in its season-opening series by a combined score of 37-5.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Ryan Larson (66) celebrates with A.J. Puk (10) after hitting his frist career collegiate home run on Saturday. The Gators hit six home runs on the weekend.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staffagainst great teams - you’ve 
got to bring your best stuff and we just didn’t have it this week.”
Despite not having their 
best stuff, there were bright spots for the Gators, one be-ing the play of senior J.D. Tomlinson. Tomlinson fin-ished tied for second at 3-un-der-par, two strokes off the lead.
Tomlinson was tied for the 
lead going into Sunday’s fi-
nal round and led the Gators 
all weekend.
“He’s really starting to 
become a leader and really make it about the team and I think that’s helped him,” Deacon said when asked about Tomlinson’s growth this season. “I just think this 
is kind of a springboard for 
the rest of the semester. He’s going to be a big player for us.”
Tomlinson, a Gainesville 
native, said earlier in the week that he hoped to con-tend for the top spot this weekend and that he looked 
forward to playing in front of 
hometown fans.
“It was awesome. I had a 
lot of family, a lot of friends, come in and out,” said Tom-linson. “At any time there could have been twenty people so it was awesome to have their support and just be able to play in my home city.”
The Gator Invitational 
was the last time Tomlinson 
and fellow senior Eric Banks 
will play a home tournament for the Gators, but the duo aren’t looking to dwell on this fourth-place finish.
“Well it’s a huge improve-
ment from last year. Last year was a struggle, but I think ev-eryone on the team is playing 
pretty solid,” Tomlinson said. 
“It wasn’t our best week. I think we can compete with any team here. We’ve got the whole spring left so I think this is a good building block moving forward.”
Banks finished tied for 
23rd at 7-over-par.
Freshman Alejandro Tosti 
finished tied for 11th after shooting 4-over-par, while ju-nior A.J. Crouch finished tied for 19th at 6-over-par and sophomore Ryan Orr finished tied for 46th at 15-over-par for the Gators.
“We’ve got to clean up 
the details. There’s still a lot of stuff going on behind the scenes that’s not good enough and that’s where we need to get better,” Deacon said. “It’s off-the-course stuff that we really need to tighten up to get to the next level.”
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
On a bright, sunny day, it’s dif-
ficult to see a single star in the sky.
In the same vein, such a blin-
dingly bright performance by the 
entire UF gymnastics team against Missouri can make it easy to over-look a budding star continuing her impressive run of form.
That star is freshman Alex Mc-Murtry, and she is quickly estab-lishing herself as one of the best 
gymnasts in the country. Friday 
night was simply further affirma-
tion.
McMurtry tied two career bests 
against the Tigers, scoring a 9.925 
on bars and a 9.900 on beam. She 
also added a 9.950 on vault, the 
event in which McMurtry has shown the most immediate com-fort and prowess this early in her career.
Particularly for home meets 
when she is able to start on vault, the event gives her confidence that carries over into her other events. 
Friday night was no different.
“I love starting on vault, even 
no matter what the score is, I love 
vault and hitting my vault,” she said Friday. “You just bring that momentum to your next event.”
In her entire season, the fresh-
man has only performed one rou-tine that scored less than a 9.825.
That routine occurred in the 
team’s previous meet at Arkansas, 
when McMurtry only managed to 
score a 9.775 on beam. 
But on Friday, the freshman said 
that she - much like the rest of her 
teammates - could sense a vibe 
about her performance that night, 
and she knew there was no chance 
of another disappointing showing by the way things were going.
“After bars I was so excited and I 
said ‘Hey, this is my night, I’m gon-
na hit my beam routine,’” she said 
Friday. “You gotta be confident in your routines, and I think we were all pretty confident tonight.”
Part of McMurtry’s confidence 
has come from not experienc-ing any major individual failures through her freshman year. She and senior Kiersten Wang are the only Gator gymnasts who have not suffered a fall or major stumble in any competition this season.
That would be an impressive 
statistic for any gymnast, but it’s remarkable for a freshman who has already competed in 16 events.
And in those 16 events, she 
has scored higher than a 9.90 nine times.
She has exceeded and shattered 
expectations, and she is already putting herself in the same cat-egory as Kytra Hunter and Bridget Sloan.
And with more experience com-
ing her way, she will likely get even better.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
J.D. Tomlinson hits the ball during Day 1 of the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on Friday at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.Aaron Albright / Alligator
Alex McMurtry performs on the uneven parallel bars during Florida’s win against Missouri on Friday in the O’Connell Center.
GYMNASTICSFreshman providing consistency
Haeger struck out 10 batters Sunday
on Sunday, that’s impressive,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“We threw her out today to see what she can do against a good hitting team…it says a lot. It says a lot of not only us, but a lot about her too.”
Haeger opened up the scoring against N.C. State 
with a two-run single in the first inning to put Florida (11-0) up 2-0 early. The two runs were enough for her as Florida was able to beat N.C. State 3-0. Haeger is now 5-0 in the circle on the season, with a sparkling 0.00 ERA and 37 strikeouts in 23 innings pitched.
Small ball was another story for the Gators, as they 
had to manufacture runs in both games. 
In its first game of the day against Iowa, an 8-0 win, 
UF had nine hits.
But Florida’s lone extra-base hits were a Kelsey Stew-
art leadoff double in the second inning and a Taylore Fuller solo home run in the third inning.
UF also reached base four times via walk and another 
five times due to being hit by a pitch, including Fuller who was hit twice.
Florida would end up getting hit three more times in its game against N.C. State to bring the total to eight on the day.
“It’s part of what we do,” Walton said. “The hitters 
that can stay in there and take doses and get hit by pitch, are those hitters who have confidence to know they don’t have to retreat and get out of the way.”
“It’s going to sting, but it’s not going to hurt you if 
you take it the correct way.”
Florida ended up having more walks (14) than hits 
(12) in the games against the Wolfpack, but getting on base by any means is a plus.
“On base percentage to us is really important,” Hae-
ger said. “Not as much as hitting, because if you’re on base all the time it’s just as good.”SOFTBALL , from page 13GOLF , from page 13Tomlinson tied for 2nd
“It’s part of what we do. The hitters that 
can stay in there and take doses and get 
hit by pitch, are those hitters who have 
confidence to know they don’t have to 
retreat and get out of the way.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coachALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Florida’s opening day loss is a 
thing of the past for the Gators, even 
if it was just a week ago. 
Since Florida fell to North Caro-
lina on Feb. 7, the Gators have 
bounced back with a vengeance. 
They had something to prove.
No. 4 Florida (2-1) took care of 
business  this week-end against Michigan  
(0-1) in a convincing 21-0 shutout of the Wolverines. 
It was the second shutout in pro-
gram history for the Gators, the ﬁ  rst coming in 2012 with a 29-0 win over Fresno State.
Senior Shannon Gilroy, Florida’s 
leading goal scorer heading into the game, missed practice late in the week due to an illness but started in Saturday’s match and won a team-
high six draw controls. 
She saw limited playing time be-
cause of her health, but fortunately 
for the Gators, her teammates were more than able to make up for her absence.
Twelve different players record-
ed a goal against Michigan, scoring on 21 of 32 shot attempts. 
Freshman Bella O’Connor, soph-
omore Sammi Burgess and senior Nora Barry each had three goals apiece. 
For O’Connor, they were the ﬁ  rst three goals of her Florida career. For Barry, they were the 99th, 100th and 101st of her career, becoming just the ﬁ  fth player in Florida history to reach the 100-goal milestone.
Saturday’s win was an oppor-tunity for the Gators to utilize their bench, which is as deep as any coach could ask for. Those players got a chance to take advantage of valu-able minutes, which coach Amanda O’Leary said they handled very 
well.
“I think we were just looking 
for (the bench players) to maintain 
the same type of play that our ﬁ  rst team is playing with,” O’Leary said.  “They’re equally as good, they have the talent, it’s just they didn’t have the experience being on the ﬁ  eld. I thought they competed really hard 
and there was very little drop off 
from that ﬁ  rst group to when we went deep into our bench.”
That deep bench includes fresh-
man goalkeeper Olivia Cole, who played the entire second half in the cage. 
Starting junior goalkeeper Mary-
Sean Wilcox ofﬁ  cially earned the 
win, but the two split the shutout 
and made four saves each.
Saturday’s big win could get the 
ball rolling for the Gators as the sea-son starts to pick up and Florida’s competition improves. 
If anything, Wilcox said, it will 
help the team’s conﬁ  dence.
 “It was nice having all the fresh-
men and everyone off the line in the game and just seeing what everyone can do as a whole, so it was good,” Wilcox said.16, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Nora Barry runs toward the net during Florida’s 17-11 loss to North Carolina on Feb. 7 at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium. Barry scored three goals in UF’s 21-0 win against Michigan on Saturday.
Florida lacrosse utilized depth in shutout against Michigan
UF Lacrosse
TRACK
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
 Bridgette Owens, Marquis Dendy and 
Kyra Jefferson highlighted the indoor regular 
season ﬁ  nale at the Tyson Invitational and the Iowa State Classic for the No. 2 Florida men’s and women’s track and ﬁ  eld teams with 
NCAA-leading performances for each in their 
respective events.
The senior hurdler Owens, who competed 
in her ﬁ  rst event in more than a month, proved the long hiatus from competition did not pro-duce any rust in her game, as she won the 60-meter hurdle event in an NCAA-leading 8.02 seconds — improving her previous best of 8.10 for the UF all-time record.  Dendy, a senior jumper out of Delaware, 
improved his season-best mark in the triple jump by over a meter with a 17.23-meter leap 
in a victorious effort.
Dendy’s performance 
not only launched him to 
the top spot in the NCAA, but it also set a new world-best and stands as the ninth-best triple jump in NCAA history, as well as third-best in UF history.
Jefferson set a 2015 
world best with a 22.81-sec-
ond time in the 200-meter sprint — just two-hundredths of a second shy of her program record in the event.The trio of Owens, Dendy and Jefferson 
were well-supported by a cast of more than 50 Gator athletes who set a total of 18 PRs in both Fayetteville and Ames, Iowa.
In Fayetteville, where seven of the top-10 
men’s teams competed this weekend at the site of March’s NCAA Indoor Championships, 
jumper Gissell Warner took the women’s tri-
ple jump (12.97 meters) on the way to a PR and the ﬁ  fth-best event score in Florida history.
Junior sprinter Robin Reynolds ﬁ  nished the 
200 sprint in 23.16 seconds, setting an indoor PR and locking up the third-best women’s 200 performance to occur in a UF uniform.
In Ames, all seven of the Gators whom par-
ticipated in both the men’s and women’s 5K 
set new PRs, including senior Mark Parrish, whose mark improved his already-best time 
in school history.
The duo of Andres Arroyo and Ryan 
Schnulle garnered top-5 ﬁ  nishes in the 800-meter invite, as their respective marks of 1:46.78 and 1:47.29 placed their names at No. 2 and No. 4 on the Gators’ all-time list.
In what he called a “circus-like atmo-
sphere” at a press conference last week, coach Mike Holloway—who traveled to Fayetteville with 38 Florida athletes—felt that his team “match(ed) the intensity” of the hotly contest-ed ﬁ  eld at both meets.
The Gators will look to bring that intensity 
to their next meet, as they head to Lexington, Kentucky for the Southeastern Conference In-
door Championships on Feb. 27-28.
UF  in top form following ﬁ  nal regular season indoor meet
Owens
