HISPANIC HERITAGE 
MONTH TO BRING
 LATINO ARTISTS.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Latino artists will ﬁ  ll the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts with 
diverse beats and rhythms this Oc-tober.
 At UF Hispanic Heritage Month’s 
opening ceremony Monday, attend-ees learned that two Latino perform-ers will light up the stage at 6:30 p.m. Oct. 2 as part of the month’s celebrations. 
Fulanito, a Dominican-American 
musical group that combines tradi-tional Hispanic music like meren-gue with styles such as hip-hop and 
house, will perform alongside Fat 
Joe, an American rapper with Cuban and Puerto Rican roots, said Susel Ramos, UF Hispanic Heritage Month executive director.
The performers will be paid 
$11,500 each from Hispanic Heritage Month’s budget.
Fulanito is more traditional while 
Fat Joe appeals to a younger crowd, said Ramos, a UF international stud-ies and French senior.
“We wanted to bring two dif-
ferent generations together,” the 20-year-old said.  
Greter Gonzalez, a UF public rela-
tions sophomore, said she’s excited to see Fat Joe, known for early-2000s hits like “Lean Back” and “What’s Luv?”
Luisa Ramirez, a 19-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance sophomore, said she is look-ing forward to seeing Fulanito live.
“I grew up listening to it,” she 
said.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 16 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
UF volleyball ready to play at home
The Gators play their ﬁ  rst home match of the 
season on Thursday, pg. 13.
New Publix to be built near campus
It will replace McDonald’s on 13th Street, pg. 5
UF Health’s Wilmot Gardens help stroke 
patients by gardening
The 12- week gardening program starts Wednesday, pg. 9Follow us on social media
For all the updates on what’s happening in 
Gainesville and at UF, like us on Facebook 
and follow us on Twitter (@TheAlligator ) 
and Instagram (@TheAlligator_ ).
LET’S DANCE
 By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
berickson@alligator.org
When UF honors student Sil-
vio Martinez arrived at school 
this Fall, he knew Hume Hall would be his home for freshman year.
“It’s just a good opportunity 
at Hume to ﬁ  nd a ﬁ  t on cam-pus,” the 18-year-old said.
The student community en-
courages social interaction and group study sessions, he said. That, along with the suite-style bathrooms, helped him accli-mate to campus.
But the biomedical engineer-
ing student said he won’t be able to afford Hume next year and will move off campus.
This year, dorm rates are 
higher than in previous years due to operational costs, wrote Sharon Blansett, the assistant to the associate vice president for 
Student Affairs at the Depart-
ment of Housing and Residence Education, in an email.
For this ﬁ  scal year, there was 
a 36.18-percent increase in utili-ty rates, which are standardized for each dorm, she said. 
Part of the increase in cost 
is also due to full-time staff sal-
ary increases, Blansett said. In 
addition, the maintenance sup-plies and continued renovations increased by $800,000 this year.
“Staff work hard to keep the rental rates as low as possible,” Blansett said.
With the increases, students 
like public relations freshman Aubrey Hoffman are choosing to live off campus.
The 18-year-old lives in 
Windsor Hall, a dorm-style apartment near Sorority Row on Southwest Ninth Street.
Equipped with a kitchenette 
and full-sized fridge, Hoffman said there’s more room than a traditional dorm. Hoffman said she stayed in Beaty Towers as 
a high school junior for the Col-
lege of Journalism and Com-munications Summer Institute, so she “kind of know(s) what it was like living in campus dorms,” she said. “And (I) felt like they were so small.”
She said her apartment is 
more homey and gives students 
more for their money. 
Nora Kilroy, director of Off-
Campus Life at UF, said stu-
dents aren’t ﬂ  ocking to live off campus — they choose the best UF dorm rates rise, 
some students move off campusCAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Kenneth Fernandez had to ask his par-
ents for help.
Before he made the call his sopho-
more year, the nuclear engineering junior 
stopped to think. How was he going to tell his parents he had lost $3,000 for the up-coming year?
“I didn’t want them to overreact,” he 
said. “Yeah, it’s bad news, but I didn’t want them to take it too much to heart.”
Fernandez, now 20, had lost his Fed-
eral Pell Grant — one of many UF students who have been losing Pell Grants in recent years. The federal government lowered the expected family contribution required to receive the grant in the 2012-2013 school year, said Richard Wilder, director of the Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial Affairs at UF.
“The criteria to get a Pell Grant changes 
from year to year,” he said.
The federal government awards Pell 
Grants to undergraduate students through the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA. Students can receive up to $5,775 based on family contribution, sib-lings in college and tuition cost, according to the Federal Student Aid website.
In the 2013-2014 academic year, 11,622 
UF students were awarded a Pell Grant, a sum of more than $46 million, according to the SFA’s fact book. It was 224 fewer stu-dents than in the 2011-2012 academic year, when 11,846 students received the grant.
Serena White also lost her Pell Grant. 
The UF sustainability studies sophomore  Fewer Pell Grants create challenges for UF students SEE ROOM,  PAGE 4
SEE PELL,  PAGE 4Criteria changes year to year Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Gabriela Garcia Medina, an international artist and spoken-word poet, performs her poem “Self-Empowered Love Poem” during the Hispanic Heritage Month Opening Ceremony at Em-erson Alumni Hall Monday. “I wanted to write a poem of love songs (and turn it) into something empowering, ” Medina said during her speech. For more photos, see page 8. 
“Yeah, it’s bad news, but I didn’t want 
them to take it to heart.”
Kenneth Fernandez
UF nuclear engineering junior“Everyone who lives 
here goes to school 
here. You get to meet 
everyone.”
Lauren Janata
UF journalism sophomoreSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
ButterflyFest
A celebration of wings, wildlife 
and biodiversity. Explore the 
lives of bats, bees, birds and but-
terflies at this fall’s ButterflyFest from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. Enjoy the Butterfly Plant 
Sale Friday-Sunday, one of the museum’s largest plant sales of the year with more than 150 species available. Learn about 
butterfly gardening, native pol-
linators, conservation, backyard wildlife and more. Experience butterfly releases and come 
dressed in your favorite pol-
linator attire for the Pollinator Parade. Visit flmnh.ufl.edu/but-terflyfest for more information. Food and merchandise vendors 
available.
 Flu Shot Kickoff and Tank 
Top Giveaway Friday
Get the shot, not the flu! Drop 
by the Student Health Care Center (Infirmary Building at 280 Fletcher Drive) on Friday, be-tween 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. for a no-
cost flu shot and free “SHOTS” 
tank top when you present your Gator1 1 card and health insur-ance card. Please note: Tank 
tops will be available to the first 
1,250 UF students vaccinated at the event only. For more infor-mation, visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu. #ChompTheFlu
Gator Nights For one night only, the bond 
will be broken between orange 
and blue at GatorNights: Orange 
vs. Blue on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature laser tag, bubble ball soccer, free custom 
dog tags, and the Mountain Dew 
Black Label concert featuring The Live Statues. GatorNights will also be hosting two show-
ings of the movie "Ted 2"  at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free tacos and na-chos during Midnight Munchies. 
This event is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are 
allowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In the article, “Sue the dinosaur 
leaves UF, new exhibit takes place,” the field of science in-
volved with the study of fossils is
paleontology not archaeol-ogy. The article should read; “Currently the largest and most 
complete skeleton paleontolo-
gists have found of a T. rex.” Archaeology only crosses paths 
with paleontology when it comes 
to human ancestors and early humans.  VOLUME 110 ISSUE 16
HIGH  84° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By McKenzie Kuhn
Alligator Contributing Writer
The competitive spirit that comes 
with a new football season isn’t just 
limited to the boundaries of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
If UF wins this year’s “What Col-
ors Do You Bleed?” LifeSouth Com-munity Blood Centers competition, the university will have bragging rights over the University of Tennes-see, said Laura Bialeck, community development coordinator for Life-South North Florida.
For the past six years, UF hasn’t 
won the competition, which started 
Monday and will continue until Fri-day, Bialeck said.
Since the competition launched, 
UF has struggled to be on the win-ning side — with the exception of 
one victory in 2008, she said. UF generally falls short by about 100 donors each year, and in last year’s competition, UF had about 1,200 donors while Tennessee had about 1,300. Bialeck said she isn’t sure why Tennessee always wins but said it might be their community’s aware-
ness of blood drives and support for 
the cause. She said she hopes to see a shift in this year’s donation out-comes with the encouragement of new student participation.
“Having this competition in the Fall is an opportunity for new stu-dents at UF to be introduced to us,” she said. 
On-campus and Greek organiza-
tions can earn spirit points for Dance Marathon if they donate during the competition, Bialeck said.
Bruce Yang, a 21-year-old bio-
medical engineering junior, has do-nated blood seven times since he started college. He said he will do-nate in the competition because he 
is in Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity, 
which will be awarded points.
“I did it for the points,” he said.When he decided to donate, Yang 
said he wasn’t thinking about the competition with UF and Tennessee.
Though the Gators haven’t beat-
en the Vols in several years, Bialeck said the competition is still a large 
contributor to helping LifeSouth 
meet the needs of the community.
The event brings in more blood 
donations than any other event, even more than the Greek Blood Drive. UF students represent about a quarter of donors in Gainesville, Bialeck said.
“We count on the students for 
this district,” she said.
LifeSouth Bloodmobiles will be 
at the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row, Fraternity Row and Gator Corner Dining Center throughout the competition. Stu-dents can follow the event on Face-book, Bialeck said, where LifeSouth will post donation updates every morning.
Alligator Staff Writer Giuseppe 
Saballa contributed to this article.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
A bloodmobile parked on the North Lawn behind the Hub on Monday. 
The blood donation drive, in which UF is competing to have more stu-dents donate than the University of T ennessee does, will end on Friday.
UF donors hope to beat TennesseeCRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Maude’s Classic Café and 
Sidecar bar is under new man-
agement after Gainesville Police 
arrested the owner Friday night 
after he reportedly ﬁ  lmed a young girl in the shower.
At about 10:10 p.m., Mat-
thew Charles Wrighton, 52, re-portedly held a camera to the window of a Gainesville home where a girl was showering, ac-cording to a police report.
Wrighton is the owner of 
Maude’s at 101 SE Second Place, Suite 101, according to the re-port. 
As of press time, he could not 
be reached for comment.
The girl reportedly saw a 
hand holding the camera behind her window and ran from the 
bathroom.
Wrighton entered the home 
as the girl was telling a witness 
what happened, according to 
the report.
When the witness asked 
Wrighton what he was doing outside the window, he report-
edly apologized and confessed 
to having a problem.
Karen Johnson, an 18-year-
old UF biology sophomore, said 
the bad news shouldn’t af-
fect the cafe’s business.
She said 
she still plans 
to eat there 
regardless of what hap-
pened to the owner. 
“Innocent until proven 
guilty,” she said.
The cafe has been closed 
since 5 p.m. Sunday for remod-eling, according to a sign on the 
cafe door. 
The café will reopen today 
for normal business hours.
Police arrested and charged 
Wrighton with attempted voy-
eurism of a child younger than 16. 
He was taken to the Alach-
ua County Jail where he was 
released Saturday night on a 
$25,000 bail.  Maude’s Classic 
Café owner arrested
Wrighton
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MOREHEAD, Ky. — Kim Davis 
returned to work Monday for the 
first time since she was jailed for de-fying a federal court and announced that she would no longer block her 
deputies from issuing marriage li-
censes to same-sex couples.
Standing at the courthouse door, 
the Kentucky county clerk read from a handwritten statement and explained in a quivering voice that she had been faced with a “seem-ingly impossible choice” between following her conscience and losing 
her freedom.
So she agreed to an “emergency 
stopgap” concession, her lawyer lat-
er said: She did not stop her deputy clerk from issuing licenses edited to remove her name, her title and her authorization. But, she said she had “grave concerns” that the licenses would be invalid without her bless-
ing.
The only couple to receive a li-
cense Monday walked into a sur-
real scene. Shannon and Carmen Wampler-Collins squeezed through a throng of reporters and protest-ers, and stood at the counter, micro-phones bobbing above their heads.
Deputy clerk Brian Mason, who 
began issuing licenses when Davis was hauled to jail, worked behind a sign anointing him the “marriage li-cense deputy.” He has issued a doz-en licenses since Davis was jailed Sept. 8, eight of them to same-sex couples, and has pledged to con-tinue issuing them despite his boss’s wishes.
Hecklers shouted “coward” at 
him from the side of the room. Mason, a 38-year-old former retail worker who unwittingly fell into the middle of the firestorm, smiled at them and turned back to his work.One protester waved a Bible and 
shouted. Elizabeth Johnston from Ohio screamed, “Don’t let Kim’s five days in jail be in vain.”
Marriage equality supporters 
tried to drown them out: “Love has won,” they chanted.
The scene dragged on for a half-
hour as Davis remained in her of-
fice, the door closed and the blinds 
drawn. 
When he finally finished the li-
cense, he handed it to the couple and shook their hands. The docu-ment, a template issued by the state and filled out by each clerk, had been altered. Where the name of the clerk and the county is typically 
entered, it said instead “pursuant to 
federal court order.”
Her attorneys later said they 
hoped the concession would satisfy the judge’s order enough to keep her out of jail. But they said the valid-ity of the licenses remains in limbo. They called on the Legislature to rewrite state law to accommodate 
clerks with religious objections and 
blamed Gov. Steve Beshear for re-fusing to call a special session to find a solution.
The governor, the attorney gen-
eral and the county attorney have said the licenses are valid.
Davis said she loves her depu-
ties and planned to take no action 
against them.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rowan County Clerk Kim Davis makes a statement at the Rowan County Judicial Center in Morehead, 
Kentucky, on Monday. Davis said her office will issue marriage licenses under order of a federal judge, but they will not have her name or office listed.
Kentucky clerk returns to work after five-day stint in jail
said she qualified her freshman year but 
was told she wouldn’t qualify this year.
The financial aid office told her that she 
received the grant last year because her brother was also enrolled in school, the 18-year-old said. 
White now has to take out loans — a 
debt she’s nervous about paying off.
“It’s one of those things that you kind 
of push to the back of your mind,” she said.White said the aid office told her she 
should still qualify. 
She had been getting about $1,900 from 
the Pell Grant before.
She said it will probably take her about 
five years to pay off the loans. She said she misses the freedom to not have to worry about money.
“Getting a job now is more of a neces-
sity than an option,” she said.
For Fernandez, his parents said they 
would back him up no matter what the cost. 
After a summer interning, he no longer 
has to rely on his parents and will be able to continue school without the grant.
“I was trying to look at the upside,” he 
said. “Yeah, it was a momentary down-side, but I knew it would go back up. And it has.”PELL,  from pg1Gov. lowered contribution required 
living situation for them.
“There’s a range of prices (for both on- 
and off-campus housing) that are compa-
rable and competitive,” Kilroy said.  
UF journalism sophomore Lauren 
Janata decided to stay on campus this year.  She said the proximity of her suite-style dorm in UF’s new Cypress Hall to her classes outweighed the lower price of some off-campus living options. 
“I just like being close to campus and 
not having to scooter in or drive in,” the 19-year-old said. She said she also likes on-campus living’s student-centered at-
mosphere.
“You’re more a part of something,” 
Janata said. “Everyone who lives here 
goes to school here. You get to meet ev-eryone.”ROOM,  from pg1Increase due to operational costsSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Brace yourselves: Fall 2015 UF Student 
Government elections are here.
At every entrance to Turlington Plaza on 
Monday, students were approached by Impact Party campaigners dressed in white, while 
students near the North Lawn were met with 
campaigners in blue for Access Party. Former majority, the Swamp Party, did not register or partake in campaigning.
Both parties asked students how they could 
improve UF.
The open-ended question generated an-
swers from students that ranged from wanting sauna rooms to getting a Dunkin’ Donuts on campus.
Impact and Access are preparing for Fall 
elections, where 50 positions will be filled 
based on a student’s residency. 
Julian Andrew, 24, circled “more parking” 
on Access’s board, which was written by an-
other student.
“If you really think about it, they’re build-
ing more on campus, but not more spaces,” the UF telecommunication senior said.
Because he can’t park on campus, Andrew 
said he pays $150 a year for a parking space 
on West University Avenue. UF student park-
ing decals are $160 for the year, according to UF’s Transportation and Parking Services website.Lillian Rozsa, 19, a District D candidate 
for Access, said a lot of students brought up parking as an important issue. She spoke with students on the North Lawn to find out what 
Access’ platform should include.
“I think it’s really important to hear what 
constituents have to say,” the UF political sci-
ence and women’s studies sophomore said.
Avery Smith, 20, a District B candidate for 
Impact Party, spoke with students on Turl-ington to find out what they wanted Impact’s platform to be.
He said as a candidate, it was important for 
him to be out talking to students.
“For me personally, being a candidate is 
a position of trust,” the UF philosophy junior said. “I think it’s so important to find out what the Student Body wants.”
Smith said he talked to about 20 students.“The most popular option we’ve gotten 
from students is more vegetarian options,” 
Smith said.
Laura Smithson, 21, wrote on Impact’s 
chalkboard that she wanted to see more water 
fountains on campus.
There is only one fountain in the theatre 
and dance building, the UF dance senior said.
“Specifically for my major, I feel like there 
needs to be more accommodations,” she said.
Smithson said it’s a general issue and it’s 
not important which party implements it.
Platform generation will continue on Tur-
lington and the North Lawn today. Fall elec-tions will be Sept. 29 and 30.Fall elections bring SG platform campaigns to campus
“Getting a job now is more of a 
necessity than an option.”
Serena White
UF sustainability studies sophomoreAll about the money
Increase breakdown
Generally, dorm fees increase 3 
to 5 percent each year, said Sharon 
Blansett, the assistant to the associate vice president for Student Affairs at the Department of Housing and Education. 
• Single undergraduate student rate 
increases: 3.5%
• Increases from ‘14-’15 school year to ‘15-’16 years:
• Murphree:  $100 increase
• Hume:  $121 increase
• Jennings:  $90 increaseTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man early Monday morning 
after he reportedly ran over an of-ﬁ  cer’s foot.
About 12:45 a.m., Dionte L. 
Ford, 21, reportedly drove through Grenada Apartments while an off-duty ofﬁ  cer chased him on foot, suspecting Ford’s involvement in a ﬁ  ght earlier that evening, according to a police report.
Ford said he didn’t know the 
man was an ofﬁ  cer. A separate uniformed ofﬁ  cer tried to stop Ford 
by stepping in front of the car and 
raising his right hand. Ford slowed down and stopped, according to the report, but then accelerated, and his back tire ran across the ofﬁ  cer’s right foot. 
The ofﬁ  cer was transported to North Florida Regional Medical Center.
“I do know that he’s OK and he 
was released,” GPD spokeswoman Lt. Tscharna Senn said. Ford said he 
apologized after learning about 
the ofﬁ  cer’s foot. 
Ford is a busi-
ness manage-ment senior and basketball play-er at Faulkner University in Alabama.“I  
can’t ﬁ  ght, man — I’m 21,” Ford 
said. “I’m trying to do my thing 
with basketball.”
Police arrested Ford on charges 
of aggravated battery on an ofﬁ  cer and knowingly driving with a sus-pended or revoked license. Authori-ties took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Monday morning on his own recognizance.  Local man runs over 
oﬃ   cer’s foot with carIT WILL REPLACE 
MCDONALD’S ON 13TH 
STREET.
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students soon won’t have to 
travel far from campus to grab their 
favorite Publix sub.
Publix recently submitted plans 
for construction in the lot at 201 NW 
13th St., two blocks from UF’s cam-
pus. The lot is currently home to a McDonald’s, which plans to move around the corner onto West Uni-versity Avenue, according to City of Gainesville planning manager Ralph Hilliard.
“I think everyone will beneﬁ  t 
from having a grocery store in that 
area that everyone can walk, bike 
and ride the bus to,” Hilliard wrote in an email.
The plans will be brought to the 
Development Review Board in No-vember for approval, and Publix has not indicated a set completion date, according to Hilliard. In his email, he said this would be the 13th Pub-lix store in Gainesville. Hilliard said the proposed building will be 29,000 square feet, with parking for bicycles and scooters. In addition to a sepa-rate entrance for liquor, the store will feature a bakery, deli, pharmacy and seafood department.
UF applied physiology and kine-
siology sophomore Kaitlyn Doolittle, 19, lived in Mallory Hall last year and said it’s about time a grocery store opened near campus. 
“It’s going to make it so much 
easier to just walk,” Doolittle said. “Finding parking on campus and then having to drag the bags, and especially water bottles, back to the dorms is a challenge for everyone.”
New Publix to be built near UF
Ford
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
While climate 
change is here 
to stay, deniers 
need to go
In 2006, former U.S. vice president and one-time presidential 
nominee Al Gore released a documentary and book called “An Inconvenient Truth.” Both the film and the book framed climate change as the result of man-made greenhouse gases, all delivered by Gore’s amazing ability to make a PowerPoint 
presentation compelling. Although climate change has been stud-ied since at least the 1930s, the success of Gore’s documentary propelled climate change to the forefront of people’s minds.
Suddenly saving the earth was in vogue, with factoids detail-
ing how you can help reduce carbon emissions (from your own home, no less!) permeating magazine space and television time. On July 7, 2007, Live Earth, one of the largest multimedia events the world has ever seen, was held to explain the issue of global warming as well as propagate the idea that somehow reuniting 
The Police would convince people to ditch their SUVs and run 
out to purchase hybrid cars. (I kid, Sting and Andy Summers — “Synchronicity” is one of the finest releases of the new-wave era.) Nine years onward, what has changed? While the U.S. and world abroad has made tremendous steps toward curbing carbon emissions, such as President Obama and the EPA’s recent Clean Power Plan, the news is still filled to the brim with depressing reminders that climate change is here and is going to be sticking around for the foreseeable future.
As The Washington Post reported in their Sept. 9 article, 
“The simple statistic that perfectly captures what climate change means,” a recent study conducted by two Australian researchers found that from 2000 to 2014, the number of heat-related records outpaced cold records by more than 12 to 1. For comparison’s sake, the ratio of hot to cold records was close to 1 to 1 from 1910 to 1960. Yikes. Statistics like the aforementioned illustrate a point scientists have been making for years now: It’s not a matter of deciding “if” global warming exists, or preventing it, but rather 
minimizing how badly it’s going to screw the human race over in 
the long run. It would seem all we can do is hope for the best and pray the world’s most brilliant minds find a way to minimize the impact on our day-to-day lives.
This column is not written to plead with the world at large for 
substantial policy changes as it pertains to energy. That is already happening as we speak, although unfortunately it may prove to be too little, too late. Rather, this column’s existence is neces-sitated by the fact there are politicians, such as recently ousted 
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbot, who would willfully blind 
themselves to the realities of climate change to make a pretty penny. The unfortunate reality that the Keystone Pipeline contin-ues to be a debated issue, rather than immediately shut down, is patently absurd. A word exists for men like Abbot and Republi-cans who would be overjoyed to have the Keystone Pipeline run through protected natural areas: asshole. An asshole is someone who selfishly pursues his or her own ends, even if it means in-conveniencing or harming those around them. If politicians who 
would accelerate extinction in the name of financial gain don’t 
qualify as grade-A asshole, then we don’t know who does.
In the meantime, if you genuinely care about the future of 
yourself and your theoretical children, keep recycling those beer bottles.UF has more to offer than just football 
Speaking personally, football season at 
UF is the most fascinating phenom-enon I’ve ever witnessed. The campus 
transforms overnight into an entirely 
new atmosphere, complete with elab-
orate tailgates, massive tides of orange-and-blue-clad families and endless optimism. Ev-
eryone’s a little friendlier and anyone sporting 
Gator memorabilia is automatically a new friend. These Saturdays have an almost reli-gious undertone as students, alumni and fans alike come together to invoke the holy name of Gator 
football.
I don’t get it.
This is my third football season at UF and I’ve never 
had season tickets. I’ve been to at most five games, and 
experienced maybe six hours of game time in total. I 
feel like I’ve truly given it the ol’ college try, but every time I get dragged to a game it always ends up the same.
It all just seems so anticlimactic: the cheering, the 
music, the inescapable good mood — for what? How 
could 11 minutes of men chasing each other possibly 
deserve all this excitement? I’ve been waiting for it to click, for some revelation to hit me as I stand in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium getting progressively more sunburnt 
and looking down on the game. Everyone else seems 
to be having the time of their lives; I must be missing something.
I was raised by a football-loving family. I’ve sat 
through countless numbers of Pop Warner, high school 
and NFL games. My little brother is the first-string quar-
terback at my former high school, and no conversation with my family lasts 10 minutes without football com-ing up to some degree. To think that I’ve lasted 20 years 
without absorbing any of their enthusiasm or knowl-
edge of the game is impressive, to say the least.I’ve attempted to pretend I understand the 
sport, but it usually just ends up with me em-barrassing myself. I tried this approach for the 
2014 UF vs. Florida State University game and 
unknowingly cheered the Noles to victory the entire four hours. The enthusiasm was there, just not the competence.
It’s gotten to the point where I’ve be-
come unapologetic of my distaste for football games. Of course I get the typical responses: “But the games are such an important part of 
your college experience!” or “You’re going to look back 
and wish you went to more games!” Honestly, if my 
only regret is that I should’ve watched grown men tack-ling each other more often, I think I’ll be OK. It’s a risk I’m willing to take.
Sure, it’s exciting to look around the stadium and 
see The Gator Nation all in one location, but it’s not the only place you can get those warm fuzzies. Grab some Krishna lunch and people-watch on the Plaza of the Americas. Look around at the people in your lec-
ture hall. Do something philanthropic with your friends. 
Football is just one way to feel connected to this town, your fellow students and the UF community. The Gator Nation doesn’t cease to exist outside the stadium.
As for me, I’ll continue to celebrate game days like I 
always have, by reveling in the widespread good mood, drifting around campus with my friends, retreating to the comfort of my apartment and possibly checking the score every hour or so. At this point, I’m assum-
ing I’ll never love or even understand football, and I’m 
OK with it. UF has so much more to offer than a single sport, and for that, I’m forever grateful.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
A paradox to consider: the 
Internet, one of the great-est inventions of the 20th century, is the medium of travel for the worst ideas of 
the 21st century. Nearly two weeks ago, on Sept. 3, YouTube personal-ity Nicole Arbour published a vid-eo entitled “Dear Fat People.” She maintains the purpose of the video is to encourage people to engage in better, healthier habits. But the question is, how exactly did she espouse her ideas?
Through an abundance of ignorant claims, 
superﬁ  cial arguments not supported by evi-dence and a clear desire to stir hateful com-mentary to score more likes and views, all Nicole managed to achieve was contributing to the Internet’s haze of ignorance.
Intrinsic to Nicole’s argument is the illogi-
cal belief from which all prejudice stems: the idea that an individual’s inferior personality is 
the cause of his or her situation. On the sub-
ject of weight and obesity, the assumption is that fat people are inherently lazier than slim people. This ad-hominem claim fails to consider how the current state of obesity in America came to fruition. She brieﬂ  y touches on it by reciting the fact that nearly 35 percent of “North Americans” are obese (which is true of the U.S. — not North America), but fails to 
delve any deeper. Since the 1970s, obesity has 
risen in the U.S. The World Health Organiza-tion and various research institutions correlate this rise with the introduction and increased use of high fructose corn syrup and sucrose, or table sugar, into the American diet.
Nicole would respond to these facts, “Eat 
better…make better choices.” This is true. The WHO openly contends on their website 
that a healthier diet does wonders for losing 
weight, and this option is readily available for many Americans. For many other Americans, however, this option exits as a dream. For the shocking more than 14.5 percent of Americans currently living in poverty, going on a healthy, vegetarian or vegan diet is impractical at best. Foods affordable for the impoverished and lower-middle class, typically non-perishables 
and fast food, are full of corn, high fructose 
corn syrup, sodium and sucrose. There is an abundance of evidence that displays how rates of obesity are higher for low-income workers, black adults, Latino adults and chil-dren of low-income families among other minority groups. All of these facts are right in front of us, yet we have people like Nicole Arbour 
continually blaming individuals for 
the issue of obesity rather than ad-dressing obesity itself.
On the issue of fat-shaming, 
“(It) is not a thing. Fat people made that up,” Nicole ﬁ  rmly argues. “Fat-shaming — who came up 
with that? That’s f-----g brilliant. Yes! Shame people who have bad habits until they f-----g 
stop.” First of all, fat-shaming is very real. It 
is a subset of body-shaming, which impacts all types of individuals, but overwhelmingly women. Whether a girl or woman is too fat or too skinny, if she lacks an “ideal” body type, there is automatically a socially devel-oped internal pressure that she is not pretty enough. And to innocently argue fat-shaming is a method of encouraging better habits is to 
embrace naivety. People put each other down; 
people bully and shame each other. We can-not eradicate bullying from our society. How-ever, if we want to address and ameliorate bullying, we need to come to a consensus that one of its subsets — fat-shaming — persists in our culture.  
By now, you have journeyed through a 
consistently critical piece on Nicole Arbour’s 
video. I will be the ﬁ  rst to admit, however, she 
did say something rather beautiful: “I really, really hope this bomb of truth exploding into your face will act as shrapnel that seeps into your soul, makes you want to be healthier so that we can enjoy you as human beings longer on this planet.” While she made this claim to justify fat-shaming, her words ring true from a humanitarian perspective. Inspiring and help-
ing each other to improve is how we progress 
as individuals and a community. Such prog-ress is achieved not through ignorance and abuse, but with compassion and empathy.
In a recent response to the prevalence of 
political and social misinformation, comedian and political ﬁ  gure Bill Maher maintained that “Politically incorrect just (means) not politi-cal. Yes, straight talk, but it doesn’t mean you 
veer into stupidity for no reason.” Stupidity 
for no reason indeed.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics 
sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Dear Misinformation: a critical 
response against ‘Dear Fat People’Column
David 
Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgVegetarianism: It’s practi-
cal, and when done with panache, can be both 
good-tasting and good for 
your body. Magnanimity: 
While less practical for college students, it feels good and is also 
good for others.
Both are tenets championed 
by the Hare Krishnas, of which 
every representative I’ve encountered in Gainesville has never faltered in the forgot-
ten art of practicing what you preach; who, 
as a collective group, have never let them-selves be subject to the indignity of hypoc-risy. A good group of good people. Good for 
them — someone’s got to do it.
I owe my enlightenment to their percus-
sively proﬁ  cient, ponytailed pamphleteers. 
I owe my satiation to the fruitfulness — though I’ve not seen fruit on the menu; it’s 
quite all right as I’m not particularly big on 
fruit — of their seemingly endless bounty provided to the scholarly every weekday from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on the Plaza of 
the Americas.
Life has been made easier. No longer 
am I subject to the sneers of meatless peers 
when group dining; the weight of the ever-burdensome pretension tossed at you by 
your vegetarian friends who deride the meat 
on your plate but squirm with yearning for just a bite. My usual choice of sauce-laden gristle has been replaced with spaghetti, er-
satz meatballs and a side of guilt-free clear 
consciousness.
And it feels great. Again, I can’t express 
how grateful I am for the altruism of the aforementioned group.
But now that I’ve made my veneration 
of the Krishna apparent, I do have a bone to pick.  
My girlfriend (read: friend who is fe-
male) and I had just entered the outskirts of the Plaza of the Americas between noon and 1 p.m. on a hot and humid Wednesday — spaghetti day, my personal favorite. Long but swiftly moving lines greeted us as jin-
gling bells and spiritual ululating grew loud-
er. Cheerfully, we welcomed the prospect of good eatin’ and fell in to join the crowd.
As the line moved forward and tickets were traded for paper plates, I was before my friend (as the con-cept of “ladies ﬁ  rst” seems a bit 
misogynistic) and greeted the ﬁ  rst 
dispenser of the meal that day with over-the-top salutations, at-tempting to match the good na-
ture of our servers. He smiled, 
acknowledging my excessive friendliness, tonged out the noo-
dles and moved on. Then came the ladler in all her aproned glory, pouring on a generous 
helping of some venerable vegan imitation 
of meat sauce. Thank you. A handful of tor-tilla chips were soon put on my plate. The chip master and I exchanged grins. Then 
came the penultimate element of the equa-
tion: those fresh, succulent greens guaran-teeing I had fulﬁ  lled my duties to the food pyramid that day, dished out gracefully and amicably. Finally the coda, the inimitable 
salad dressing bringing all of the plate’s in-
dividual parts together in harmony.
But wait… I had only been given a light 
squirt of dressing for my superﬂ  uous greens. 
Is that it? I wanted to ask for more but I’d 
moved out of the line already, and some lingering proctor of the line had already nodded a tactful smile at me, which all at once said, “enjoy your meal and move along 
please.” I see my girlfriend behind me, her 
spirits crushed by the same rationing of sal-ad dressing that just befell me. What is hap-pening here? Who is this one with the squirt 
bottle? Are they one of you? An impostor, 
perhaps, who has inﬁ  ltrated the ranks of our Krishna friends only to destroy dreams and create talent manqués out of us by scantily dressing our salads?
It happened again. And again sometime 
after that. And while I can make my way through a plate of Krishna lunch, including seconds, while my lady friend regales our 
lunch hour with tales of her intestinal woe 
brought upon by the oiliness of some of the other week’s dishes, I can hardly stomach the lack of salad dressing.
Nonetheless, I’ll be there tomorrow, 
bright and late, ticket in hand, Oliver Twist in mind.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe journalism 
junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.Hey Krishna, can I have some more?Column
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
Celebrating the start of UF’s 
2015 Hispanic Heritage Month
Photos by Danielle Veenstra
TOP RIGHT:
Shika T amaklo, a 21-year-old UF biology senior and president of the 
UF African Student Union, explains to Julie Elias, a 20-year-old UF anthropology and criminology and law junior, about the club’s up-coming general body meetings during the Hispanic Heritage Month tabling on Monday.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
UF’s Hispanic Heritage Month Opening Ceremony 2015: Not Just Our Genetics featured videos from Hispanic cultural clubs around campus, including the Hispanic Student Association and the Cuban American Student Association, at Emerson Alumni Hall on Monday. About 200 students attended the event, which promoted the im-portance of Hispanic culture.
BOTTOM LEFT:
From left: Gabriella Garza, an 18-year-old UF telecommunication freshman; Jennifer Almazan, a 19-year-old UF environmental sci-ence sophomore; and Ana Disla-Reyes, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, welcomed students to the Hispanic Heritage Month Opening Ceremony with free koozies, lip balm and portable hand sanitizers. The students, part of the event’s marketing team, helped educate attendees about Hispanic cultural clubs at UF. “It helps you keep in touch with your culture and heritage, ” Garza said.
Kenneth Tinoco, a 21-year-old UF sophomore, watches a video about Hispanic Heritage Month that asked students around UF why they were proud to be Latino or Latina. Tinoco was invited by friends to attend the event. “I really like how proud people were about their culture, ” Tinoco said about the video.By Deshlee Ford
Alligator Contributing Writer
A woman stares into a camera 
lens as her white turtleneck blouse 
and long, dark skirt pop out from the neighboring construction site.
Florence Neville Miller’s visit 
to the Panama Canal, captured in a black-and-white photograph, was preserved by the Smathers Libraries in its Panama Canal Museum Col-lection.
“We have these great photo-
graphs of her touring the construc-tion,” said exhibits coordinator Lourdes Santamaría-Wheeler speak-
ing about the early 1900s scene.
At the end of the month, the 
Smathers Libraries will lose the 
grant that helped document the Panama Canal Museum’s integra-tion into the library and preserve the since-closed museum’s arti-facts, she said.
After the Panama Canal Mu-
seum closed, its collection was moved from Seminole, Florida to UF, Santamaría-Wheeler said. The almost $500,000 National Leader-ship Grant came from the Institute of Museum and Library Services and was used for documenting and preserving. It also allowed for the collection to be moved, Santa-
maría-Wheeler said. UF agreed to 
store about 18,000 of the museum’s 
items inside its libraries, collabo-rating with the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art and the University’s 
Center for Latin American Studies.
“The collection doesn’t go any-
where (after we lose the grant),” 
Santamaría-Wheeler said. “The col-lection is a part of UF. It’s part of the library.”
With the grant, she said the 
Smathers Libraries hired three peo-ple: one to manage a volunteer pro-
gram, one to manage communica-
tions and one to manage intake and operations of incoming donations.
“The three positions (will) end,” 
said Lee Herring, the Panama Mu-seum Collection’s communications assistant, who will be retiring Oct. 1 after 30 years at UF.
The library also used the grant 
to hold the Panama Canal’s centen-nial celebration in 2014.
Traditionally, libraries do not 
collect a lot of artwork, especially not textiles or fabric art.  Smathers Libraries has been able to collect and display these artifacts, while also managing an online database that includes letters, diaries and more than 45 oral history videos.
“It’s kind of unique in the aca-
demic library world,” Herring said. “It is something that other universi-ties are looking at.”
Santamaría-Wheeler said she 
encourages students to visit the col-lection.
“Just because it is the Panama 
Canal Museum Collection doesn’t 
mean that if you’re studying some-
thing other than Panama, that there wouldn’t be something of interest,” she said. “There’s photography in it. There’s art in it. There’s journal-ism in it because of the way it was talked about. There is something for everyone.”TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
CAMPUS
By Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
Stroke patients will be able 
to socialize and improve motor skills in a handicapped-accessible greenhouse.
In UF Health’s Wilmot Gar-
dens, those with stroke-related pa-ralysis, where certain body parts don’t move correctly or speech is impaired, can participate in a new 
therapeutic horticulture program, 
said Dr. Craig Tisher, a UF College of Medicine professor emeritus.
The ﬁ  rst participants will begin 
the 12-week program Wednesday, said Elizabeth Diehl, the Wilmot Gardens director of therapeutic horticulture. The group of eight to 
10 patients will meet weekly at the 
Wilmot Gardens greenhouse, 2023 Mowry Road, and will plant seeds and cut the plants for art projects.
People with paralysis can feel 
depressed, Tisher said.  
The program allows patients 
to feel like they’re contributing to their communities, Diehl said.
“We’re giving them a new spir-
it, new self-conﬁ  dence, a sense of self-efﬁ  cacy that they can actually do this,” Diehl said.
Although most of the healing 
is psychological, she said physical healing may also occur. Moving around the greenhouse, mixing soil and spraying misting bottles all help ﬁ  ne-tune motor skills.
Tisher said the idea for the pro-
gram came after applying for the Quality of Life research grant from the Christopher and Dana Reeve 
Foundation. Wilmot Gardens was 
awarded the grant, which means patients’ activities are fully funded at no expense to them.
Tisher said after the gardens 
got the grant he decided to fo-cus on stroke patients. Because UF Health Shands Hospital treats about 250 to 300 acute stroke pa-
tients a year, he said there is need 
for the program in Gainesville.
Diehl said the program will 
provide participants with the skills and tools to continue gardening at home.
“Our hope, especially with this 
group because it is a Quality of Life Grant, is to increase the qual-
ity of life through working with 
horticulture,” she said.UF Health’s Wilmot 
Gardens help stroke patients by gardeningLibrary’s Panama Canal grant ends 
History of the Panama Canal Museum
 Three former Panama Canal residents — President Joseph J. 
Wood, Vice President Betty LeDoux-Morris and Executive Vice President Charles W. Hummer Jr. — founded the museum.
 Charles W. Hummer Jr. was a major catalyst in the develop-ment of the museum and its extensive collection.
http://cms.uﬂ  ib.uﬂ  .edu/pcm/about.aspxIt was about $500,000TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-30-15-29-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
Documentary Filmmaking ProjectTeam or individual to film and produce a documentary on the life and comeback of a veteran mma fighter, think "smashing ma-chine" meets "cinderella man", for more info email showtimesportsmngmt@gmail.com   9-18-15-6-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD MONDAY, SEPT. 21, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
9-18-15-5-14
Wanted: Computer ProgrammerFamiliar with PHP and data collectionswww.goldendomefund.orgcall for more info. 229-247-5285    9-18-15-5-14
Middle School Tutor/Organizational helper Wanted to assist 2 or 3 times a week, pri-marily with organizational skills and some general tutoring. The tutoring is for 2 middle school girls attending Florida Virtual School full-time. Hours are flexible, one or 2 hours a sitting. $15-$20 an hour. Contact kelley.phil-lips@gmail.com    9-18-15-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatestACROSS
1 High-ranking
Indian
5 Jack rabbits, e.g.
10 Mr. Ed’s foot
14 Like Bond foes
15 RLX automaker
16 Bring down with
a big ball
17 *“The Color
Purple,” forOprah Winfrey
19 Great Plains tribe20 Soccer game tie,
often
21 Infiltrator22 Email command23 Hitch, as a ride25 Long locks27 Retailer known
for little blueboxes
32 Maple output33 Singer Amos34 Bottom corner of
a square sail
36 Pass along40 Is obliged to pay41 Valentine symbol
... or, when read
as two words,what you can’t dowhen the
answers to
starred clues arespoken
43 Dallas
quarterback Tony
44 Hiking trails
46 Word before
cook or burn
47 “Yeah, yeah, I
get it”
48 Monk’s title
50 Winter traction
aid
52 Game divisions56 Car in a ’60s
song
57 Stagger58 Off-road transp.60 Horseshoe-
shaped letters
65 Inland Asian sea
66 *Special Forces
soldier
68 Dry with a towel
69 Words on a
Wonderland cake
70 Turkish currency
71 Egg container72 Got off one’s duff73 Mexico City
problemDOWN
1 Riviera resort
San __
2 CoverGirl
competitor
3 Jazzy jargon
4 Et __: and
others
5 Went for a
burger, say
6 Unhittable serve7 Pre-grilling spice
mixtures
8 Blow one’s stack9 Lascivious
deities
10 *1990s Reform
Party candidate
11 Hall’s pop music
partner
12 Holey layer
13 Nourishes
18 Site of
Napoleon’s exile
24 Pilgrim Standish26 Corn serving27 Sporty car roof28 State whose
straw poll wasdiscontinued in2015
29 Banjo ridge30 *Boneless
seafood option
31 Tapes up tightly35 Like a test
answer with an
“x” next to it
37 Norse mischief-
maker
38 Love, to Ovid
39 Oxen harness42 Black-and-white,
e.g.
45 “No seats” letters49 Traditional sayings51 Gestation
location52 Shrimp relative
53 Spooky
54 Brings in55 Fender guitar
model, briefly
59 White House no61 Slim swimmers
62 Bleak
63 Prefix with
dynamic
64 Guys-only
67 Punk rock
offshoot
By Jerome Gunderson©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/15/1509/15/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 15, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
ACROSS
1 Cabbage side
dish
5 Costume shop
supply
9 Croatian-born
physicist Nikola
14 Spanish
appetizer
15 In couch-potato
mode
16 Like a cheering
capacity crowd
17 Happily __ after
18 Tidy19 Destiny20 *Publication
featuring Alfred
E. Neuman
23 Tidal retreat
24 The ones right in
front of us
25 Lt.’s superior
27 Engraved with
acid
30 “The Firm” author
John
33 Sea, to
Cousteau
34 Worker in a shaft
37 __ Gras38 Coll. hot shot40 Garden bulb42 Tugboat sound
43 WF-3640 printer
maker
45 Traveler’s stop
47 “__ you happy
now?”
48 “Do not” follower,
on a closed-doorsign
50 Ride a seesaw52 Roll call reply53 Channel covering
Capitol Hill
55 Cute __ button57 *Chinese food
staple
62 Light brown64 Beech or birch65 Many Keats
poems
66 Flub by a fielder67 Balkan native68 Cowpoke’s
footwear
69 “Yum!”70 Knight times71 “Born Free”
lioness
DOWN
1 Wineglass part2 Volcanic output3 Did an
impression of
4 Fireside feeling
5 Didn’t follow a
script, say
6 Brainstorms
7 Classic Krispy
Kreme coating
8 “The X-Files” org.
9 Get ready to
shoot
10 Open __: tennis
period since
1968
11 *Cold symptom
12 Rack of __13 Many an Iraqi21 “Excuse me ... ”22 Big name in
ATMs
26 Exam for H.S. jrs.
27 Nestle snugly
28 Allegro, scherzo,
andante, etc.
29 *Lines that help
you 9-Down
30 Sandpaper
feature
31 Worship32 Bishop’s
headdress
35 Unfeeling36 Symphonic rock
gp.
39 Sheep shelter41 Personal source
of annoyance ...
which might
make one feelthe first word ofthe answers tostarred clues
44 Room with a crib46 Starring role49 On a pension:
Abbr.
51 Dress for the
choir53 Monte __:
gambling mecca
54 Ink mishap55 Aid in wrongdoing56 Doris Day song
word
58 Online handicraft
market
59 Big screen star60 Corp. heads61 “¿Cómo __ usted?”63 Understood, as a
joke
By Janice Luttrell©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/14/1509/14/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, September 14, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Remove Unwanted Hair TodayHalf-off laser hair removal50% off your first treatment352-333-FACE (352-333-3223)Visit www.gainesvilleflderm.com    9-18-15-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Sincerity Community Care
do you need companion care or home maker 
services for you or a loved one contact us 
at 3523010249 or sinceritycare@gmail.com    
9-17-15-5-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE FLIRTY CHAIR DANCE CLASS
This Thursday, September 17th, 6pm. The 
Lingerie Company 2614 SW 34th St. Call 
today to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    
9-17-15-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Becky Burleigh is 
stressing the importance of being resilient to UF's soccer team. Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
After five road games and spending 
back-to-back weekends in Texas and Ha-
waii, the Florida volleyball team can finally 
relax.
The Gators are home.
But fifth-ranked Florida (6-1) finds itself 
without a key starter — Carli Snyder.
The sophomore outside hitter turned 
her ankle in practice last Tuesday and is out indefinitely with an ankle sprain, head coach Mary Wise said.
Snyder started each of UF’s first four 
games and was averaging 2.5 kills per set  — currently fourth best on the team — be-fore she was sidelined.
But Wise said there is good news de-
spite not having a timetable for her return.
“Because we were on the road, the 
trainer said it was the best opportunity to rehab because she wasn’t in class,” Wise 
said. 
“So she was listening to class and they 
were working on her ankle at the same 
time. I guess if you’re gonna have an in-jury, what I learned is do it on the road.”
While Snyder’s ankle heals, the rest 
of the Gators are still recovering from the time difference Hawaii presented.
Wise said they’re all handling it well, 
though.
“They’re young and adaptable and they 
recover fast,” she said. “You might not have thought that on the bus from Orlando last night when it was as quiet as I’ve ever 
experienced, [but] at five in the morning 
in L.A. they seemed like young teenagers totally unphased.”
Florida has good reason to be excited.It returns to the O’Connell Center Thurs-
day for its home opener against St. John’s.
The Gators are coming off a 4-1 trip that included wins against then third-ranked Texas and No. 11 Oregon.
Though the trip included a loss to then 
No. 16 Hawaii — UF’s lone defeat of the season — the match went down to the wire in a five-set thriller.
“Credit Hawaii how well they played es-
pecially in the fourth and fifth set,” Wise said. 
“For us to be without Carli and be right 
there, I don’t think we could’ve asked any-
thing more from our team.”
With Snyder not on the court, Florida 
had multiple players step up in her ab-
sence.
Wise named three that stood out to her 
— senior outside hitter Ziva Recek, sopho-SAFETY KEANU NEAL IS 
CLEARED TO PRACTICE.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
After watching Will Grier and 
Treon Harris battle it out for the 
starting quarterback job for two weeks, coach Jim McElwain still isn’t ready to make his decision.
McElwain said neither quar-
terback showed enough in UF’s 31-24 win against East Carolina on Saturday for him to be com-fortable picking one over the other.
“Both had good things, both 
had things we need to work on,” McElwain said. “But then again, 
I look at it as they weren’t fatal 
flaws. They weren’t just some of those real scratch-your-head deals as much.”
Grier finished with 151 pass-
ing yards and a pair of touch-downs on 10-of-17 passing, 
including a pair of well-timed 
passes to Brandon Powell and DeAndre Goolsby in the first quarter.
However, Grier also had an 
interception and a couple risky pass attempts.
Harris played in the second 
and fourth quarters, completing five of eight passes for 54 yards. While Harris’ play was average, he led the Gators on a crucial 11-play, 75-yard drive in the fourth quarter, capped by a 7-yard Kel-vin Taylor touchdown run.
McElwain said he is not afraid 
to continue to play the hot hand until he feels confident naming a starter.
“I’m more concerned that 
we’ve got to continue to get bet-ter at the other positions as well to develop some consistency,” McElwain said.
Injury up-
date:  Florida’s 
secondary is fi-nally rounding back into form.
Safety Kea-
nu Neal, who has not prac-ticed since Aug. 21 due 
to a leg injury, has been cleared to return to the field, McElwain said.
Neal played in 10 games last 
season, starting eight. He fin-
ished the season with 45 tackles, 
four pass breakups, three inter-ceptions and a fumble recovery for a touchdown.
“That will be a big plus, hav-
ing him back there it’s just an-other playmaker out there on the field with our defense,” defen-sive back Marcus Maye said. “A 
guy with experience [who can] 
make plays all over the field.”
While Neal is returning, the 
Gators are still playing a wait-and-see approach with a few of 
Gators in the NFL
Former Florida defensive coordinator and current Atlanta Falcons head 
coach Dan Quinn won his NFL head coaching debut on Monday night when the Falcons beat the Philadelphia Eagles 26-24. Former Gator Riley Cooper had three catches for 25 yards for the Eagles during the game. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain stands on the sidelines during Florida's 31-24 
win against East Carolina on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
On Monday morning, Florida 
head coach Jim McElwain got his 
first opportunity to address the 
Kelvin Taylor sideline incident. 
And while no formal apology 
came from the first-year Florida 
coach about the incident that oc-
curred during the Gators’ 31-24 
win over East Carolina on Sat-urday night, McElwain did say it was something he and his team can learn from as the season pro-
gresses.  
“I’m a pretty passionate guy, 
pretty emotional guy. I want what’s best for this university, 
this administration and program moving forward,” McElwain said. 
“There were some real teach-
able moments in that game as far 
as things that we just can’t do to 
hurt ourselves or hurt the team. They’ve been addressed.”
UF athletics director Jeremy 
Foley was also in attendance, sit-ting idly by with his arms crossed intently watching as McElwain fielded question after question 
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15McElwain addresses sideline burst
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15Grier
Notebook: QB race to 
continue at Kentucky
VOLLEYBALL
UF prepping for home debut without starting outside hitter “I’m a pretty passionate guy, 
pretty emotional guy. I want 
what’s best for this university, 
this administration and 
program moving forward.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
“Credit Hawaii how well they played 
especially in the fourth and fifth set. 
For us to be without Carli and be right 
there, I don’t think we could’ve asked 
anything more from our team.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coachBy Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Becky Burleigh is a big fan of symbol-
ism.
Since the start of the season, the coach 
of the No. 10 Gators soccer team has pre-
sented both an orange rowing oar and a wilted yellow flower as a means of trying to convey a lesson to her players.
This week, Burleigh showed up to her 
weekly press conference with two items.
The first was a photo from Sunday’s 4-0 
win at Jacksonville University.
Captured in the picture was redshirt ju-
nior goalkeeper Valerie Tysinger jumping into the arms of freshman goalie Kaylan Marckese following the game’s final whis-tle.
The moment was sparked by a penalty 
save by Marckese in the 85th minute of the match to help secure a clean sheet in the freshman’s first collegiate start.
The picture represents a concept that 
some athletes find hard to embrace: The inexistence of intra-team competition.
“It takes a really special person to be 
truly excited for someone else’s success,” 
Burleigh said.
Tysinger is familiar with that type of 
mentality.
Until this season, she was the backup keeper for the recently departed Taylor 
Burke, one of the best goalies in program history — she’s tied for the most career 
shutouts at UF.
Now, even as the team’s primary goal-
keeper, she still embraces the idea of shar-
ing in the celebratory moments from the sidelines.
The second object was a green bouncy 
ball.
Following Friday’s 2-1 loss to No. 6 
Texas A&M, as part of the team’s “watch the player, meet the person” campaign, the team gave a speech about resilience to the children whom attended the game.
The purpose of the Gators’ campaign is to show fans that the players are not just players, and that they can provide as much joy off the field as they do on it.
Burleigh said that what people tend to 
love about soccer is the human element.
“What people really relate to is the peo-
ple,” Burleigh said in reference to the game of soccer.
Along with the speech, each child re-
ceived one of the green balls.
The ball symbolizes resilience, and just 
like a rubber ball, resilience involves re-covery.
“Resilience is bouncing back from ad-
versity.” Burleigh said.
The type of feistiness that Burleigh 
harped on was evident during the loss to TAMU.
Despite the game being one of the slop-
piest in recent history, filled with miscom-munication and preventable errors, the Gators were still in the game following a 
goal in the 77th minute by junior forward 
Savannah Jordan.
It was a one-goal game the rest of the 
way, with Florida having the bulk of the momentum.
Poor play did not stop Florida from try-
ing to regain traction that it lost earlier in the game, and the team almost came away with a tie in a game that seemed one-sided 
in its entirety.
Much like the green bouncy balls, Bur-
leigh’s team was able to find a way to 
bounce back and get back into the game.
“That says a lot about our resilience.”14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF goalkeeper Val Tysinger (right) battles for possession with FSU forward Cheyna 
Williams (19) during Florida’s 3-2 win on Aug. 30 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
T aylor Tubbs races in the Southeastern Conference Championships on Nov. 1, 2013, on the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
CROSS COUNTRY
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
If anyone is excited for Florida’s 
first and only home meet of the sea-
son, it’s freshman Maria Larsen.
“It’s gonna be great hearing ‘Go 
Gators’ all the time,” Larsen said.
 “I heard it a few times in North 
Carolina so it’s gonna be awesome 
to hear it all the time.”
She’ll likely hear the chant re-
peatedly on Saturday as the UF 
men’s and women’s cross country teams will host the Mountain Dew 
Invitational. 
The competition will draw fans 
of the sport from all over Florida, 
many of whom will likely be cheer-
ing for the home team. 
Larsen, who’s in her first season 
with Florida after making the trek to 
Gainesville all the way from Den-mark, has already established her-
self as an elite runner on the team. 
The Danish indoor 3,000 meter 
record holder took first on the team 
and second overall in the 5,000 me-
ter race two weekends ago at the 
Covered Bridge Open hosted by Ap-palachian State, and she’s not ex-pecting any less this weekend.
“I’m usually ready mentally,” 
Larsen said, “so if my legs are ready, I think I can perform on Saturday.”
And while her own success is clearly important, she’s even more concerned with seeing her team 
succeed. 
“I’m looking forward to compet-
ing as a team again,” she said. “Usu-
ally back home I would just run for 
my own sake, so that’s kinda new 
to me and I really like being part of a team.”
Jack Guyton, who was among 
the best freshmen on the men’s 
team at Covered Bridge, feels that 
beyond excitement, the Gators have a better chance for success on their home course.
“Running on the golf course — 
it’s mushy, there’s lots of hills and the terrain is just unique to many courses,” he said, “so it’ll give us kinda a better advantage just know-
ing the course better than other 
teams and just being aware of all of the different types of terrain there is.”
While running at home can be 
invigorating for any team, cross country head coach Paul Spangler knows this meet won’t be his team’s best, and he’s just fine with that. 
Spangler’s women’s team, led by 
junior Taylor Tubbs, is using these meets to gauge the team’s perfor-mance before Southeastern Confer-
ence meets arrive. 
“We’re not very sharp right now, 
but we don’t wanna be sharp right 
now,” he said. “We wanna be sharp come Notre 
Dame, come pre-nats, come SECs, 
come the important races.”
In the grand scheme of a cross 
country season, an early meet like 
this doesn’t mean much toward the 
team’s success down the road. That 
being said, Larsen is aware that this competition still has meaning.
“If we do well on Saturday, it’s 
a way of telling that we’re in good shape,” she said. 
Win or lose, competitions on 
home turf — with fans, friends and activities — are always exciting, and even though Spangler is more con-
cerned about future competitions, 
he acknowledges that this meet has a nice vibe to it for the team.
“It’s exciting,” he said. 
“This is probably one of their 
favorite meets of the year because 
they get a chance to compete in front of their friends, in front of their old teammates that are still in 
high school, in front of high school 
coaches and their family.”Freshmen anticipating home meet
Gators using symbolism to emphasize need for resilience“I’m looking forward to 
competing as a team again. 
Usually back home I would 
just run for my own sake, so 
that’s kinda new to me and 
I really like being part of a 
team.”
Maria Larsen
UF freshman runner
Florida shutout JacksonvilleMcElwain said he 
recieved criticism from 
his 94-year-old mothermore middle blocker Rhamat Al-
hassan, who leads the country in blocks per set, and senior defen-
sive specialist Nikki O’Rourke, 
who tallied a career-high 25 digs against Hawaii.
One play that exemplified 
O’Rourke’s play came in the third set against Hawaii. 
She sprinted back beyond the 
service line, dove and bumped the ball back to her teammates.
“She has the foot speed of the 
likes we’ve never had,” Wise said. “Should SportsCenter follow volleyball, she would make all 
sorts of top 10 plays of the week.”
Now the Gators turn their at-
tention to walking under the 
lights of the O’Connell Center once again, after they thought 
they’d be playing away from the 
dome due to initial renovation plans.
Wise said her seniors were es-
pecially excited.
“Their mindset was that 
they wouldn’t be playing in the O’Dome this year,” Wise said. “There can’t be five people more 
thrilled with the decision to wait 
a year,” she said.
Wise, who said Florida’s been 
receiving every team’s best shot 
on the road, said her team is just 
excited to be back in front of the familiar faces of Gator fans.
“I think it’ll really hit us when 
we go into the O’Connell Center 
on Thursday.”TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
its players.
Junior linebacker Alex Anzalone (shoulder) is still being 
evaluated after being taken out in the first-half of Saturday’s 
game against ECU.
McElwain also said cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III is 
still questionable. Hargreaves was scratched from Saturday’s game after injuring his leg in practice on Thursday.
Freshman offensive line Martez Ivey (knee) is also ques-
tionable and running back Case Harrison (thumb) is day-to-day.
Other tight ends limiting McGee’s impact:  While 
Florida’s tight ends have thrived early under McElwain, the team’s most-experienced tight end has been virtually non-existent.
Sixth-year tight end Jake McGee has just two catches for 18 
yards early in the season, both of which came in the opener.
Despite McGee’s early slump, McElwain is still impressed 
with how the tight end position as a whole has produced.
In UF’s wins against New Mexico State and East Carolina, 
the position group has 11 catches, 200 yards and three touch-downs, with sophomore DeAndre Goolsby leading the Gators with 132 receiving yards.
In the last two seasons overall, Florida tight ends recorded 
30 catches, 279 yards and three touchdowns.
“We’ve used that position group to make some plays,” 
McElwain said. “For whatever it is, their number was called and it came up in the progression. I don’t look at it as maybe something Jake is or isn’t doing.”
UF-Tennessee time set:  Florida’s home game against 
Tennessee on Sept. 26 is set for a 3:30 p.m. kickoff and will be televised by CBS. Eight of the last 10 matchups between the Gators and Volunteers have started at 3:30 p.m.NOTEBOOK,  from pg13McGee struggles while other tight ends shine in first two games
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF tight end Jake McGee (83) runs a route during Florida's 31-24 win against East Carolina on Saturday at Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium. 
about his rant. 
Not once did he ever hear 
McElwain say the word “sorry.”
But while McElwain never 
did say he regretted the inci-
dent, he did say repeatedly he didn’t feel good about what hap-
pened and how it ended up in 
the public eye.
“I don’t feel good about it. As 
you know, this is a very public job. This is a public thing that 
we do,” McElwain said. 
“I understand that I have a 
long ways to go and I make mis-
takes. Absolutely.” 
The incident also caught the 
attention of McElwain’s mother, Marjorie. 
McElwain said he got a call 
from his mother afterwards and 
she gave him her thoughts on 
what happened.
“Ninety-four years old and 
I got an earful from her too. 
Rightfully so,” McElwain said.
On the other side, Taylor’s 
father, former NFL running back 
Fred Taylor, said on The Dan Lebatard Show on Monday  he 
thought McElwain overreacted.
But when it comes to under-
standing the message behind 
McElwain's tirade, Taylor said 
he understood the methodology behind it. 
Taylor said the throat-slash 
gesture was something he used 
to do during his playing days. 
He also added that the ges-
ture was a selfish act on Kel-vin’s part and his son has to be 
a smarter player and will learn 
from it. 
UF offensive lineman Trip 
Thurman said he sided with 
McElwain and he didn’t have 
a problem with the way the Gators’ coach handled Kelvin’s gesture.
“In my opinion, I think he 
did the right thing,” Thurman said. 
“On any team, the head coach 
is a father figure. He wants the 
best out of his players. Kelvin 
knows what he did wrong. We learned from it and we’re going to move along. Coach loves us all.” 
McElwain said he and Kelvin 
did have a conversation about what happened and they hugged each other while acknowleding 
it’s time to put the entire situa-
tion behind the two of them.
“Do I feel bad about it? Yes,” 
McElwain said. 
“At the same time, I’ve got 
to understand my mistakes as well and learn from it and go forward."FOOTBALL,  from pg13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF defensive specialist Nikki O'Rourke serves during Florida's 3-1 
win against Miami on Dec. 6 in the O'Connell Center. 
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg13UF played first seven games on road16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
Heading into the third and final round of 
the Cougar Classic, the UF women’s golf team 
is in a tie for third place out of 20 teams. 
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson will tee-off 
today tied for first out of 107 individual com-
petitors at Yeamans Hall Club in Charleston, 
South Carolina. 
The No. 22 Gators came into Monday 
morning tied for fourth and looking to climb, but the team maintained their position thanks to Tomlinson’s 4-under 68 and Ursa Orehek’s even-par 72 in the second round. 
As a team, UF shot a 1-under 287 in the 
second round, an improvement from Sun-day’s 2-over 290. 
“I thought we hung in there well today, 
and overall we finished strong,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. 
“We had a stretch where we lost a little bit 
of our focus, but we regained it and played hard all the way to the end. I’m proud of the 
fight I’ve seen this week, and we’re looking 
forward to tomorrow.”
Sitting at 8-under for the tournament, Tomlinson continued her strong play from the open-
ing round by making four 
birdies in her first five 
holes. 
“It was nice to see Tay-
lor put some more red on the board today,” Glaser said. 
“She’s been very smart 
this week, she had a great plan for this 
course, and there are no plans to change that 
for tomorrow.”
Junior Maria Torres heads into today’s round tied for 14th after dropping back three strokes on Monday with a 2-over 74. 
Orehek and Karolina Vlckova are tied for 
31st at 4-over for the tournament after posting round two scores of 72 and 73, respectively. 
No. 8 Arkansas holds a commanding lead 
at 11-under par, while No. 16 Virginia moved into second place at 1-under. 
Florida and Southeastern Conference-rival 
Georgia open the final round deadlocked at 1-over. 
The Gators will look to make a push in the 
final round today when the team tees off at 9 a.m.Gators enter final round of Cougar Classic in fourth place tie
Tomlinson
