We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 23 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
Check out the sports section
Highlights include a column on UF’s 
poor offensive line play and a look in to Florida soccer star Savannah Jor-dan’s success, pgs. 17-20Research Roundup
Learn more about the tastiest blueberries and the tree of life,pg. 3
Check out Avenue
Read about music and movies, and get some mediocre advice, 
pgs. 9-13Students get outdoors
Check out the photo story, pg. 8
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
SUCCULENT SHOPPING
Retail employee Susan Meyer (left) and her mother, Dorothy Puida, pick out plants at the Union Street 
Farmers Market on Wednesday. “I try to come here as often as my schedule permits, ” Meyer said. “I come here for all of my produce, too. ”
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Florida football coach Jim McElwain an-
nounced Wednesday that sophomore quar-
terback Treon Harris and sophomore cor-nerback Jalen Tabor will miss Saturday’s game against Tennessee due to a violation 
of team rules.“Jalen Tabor and Treon Harris won’t 
be with us this week, which simply means we’ve got to have some guys step up,” 
McElwain said. “They will be back the fol-lowing week.”
Harris didn’t play against Kentucky on 
Saturday as the Gators rode redshirt fresh-man Will Grier to a 14-9 victory, but McEl-wain had said earlier in the week he could envision the Miami native taking snaps against the Volunteers.
The ﬁ  rst-year Florida coach commended 
Harris for keeping a positive attitude despite seemingly losing the quarterback battle with Grier.
“He’s a true team guy,” McElwain said 
Monday about Harris. “Obviously disap-pointed and yet, you know what, he’ll pre-pare, he’ll be ready and we’ll see what hap-pens this week.”
Throughout the ﬁ  rst three games, Harris 
is an efﬁ  cient 19-for-27 for 269 yards with two touchdowns and no interceptions. 
He’s also displayed athleticism in the 
open ﬁ  eld with eight rushes for 55 yards. 
Harris has made one start this sea-
son, the team’s 61-13 season-opening win against New Mexico State. 
Grier has started the last two games, 
including a wire-to-wire stint against the Wildcats on Saturday and will now have the UF football suspends two players for Tennessee
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
For the first time in about 
five years, the future of the law profession is looking bright.
Most law school admissions 
officers across the U.S. are 
expecting an increase in law 
school applications, according to Kaplan Test Prep’s 2015 sur-vey of law school admissions officers.
UF’s Levin College of Law is 
already seeing a spike in appli-cations. 
Their application was made 
available Sept. 1, and the school has already received 50 appli-cations — double the amount received at this time last year, said Levin College of Law dean Laura Rosenbury.“We are definitely hoping for 
a substantial increase in our ap-plications,” she said.
Out of all the admissions of-
ficers from the 120 law schools who responded to the Kaplan survey, 88 percent said they are 
expecting an increase in appli-
cations for the 2015-2016 ap-plication cycle. Kaplan’s 2014 survey reported 46 percent were confident they would see a spike.
Jeff Thomas, executive direc-
tor of pre-law programs for Ka-plan, said this prediction comes 
after the effects of the Great Re-
cession have blown over. In the mid to late 2000s, law school applications soared. 
But when those students 
graduated in 2011 and 2012, there were too many lawyers  UF Law expects to 
see more applicants
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
A famous farm-animal specialist and au-
tism advocate will visit UF today.
Temple Grandin will tour UF’s beef and 
dairy teaching units, meet with UF vet-
erinary students and speak at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts at 7 p.m. 
Admission is free for students and commu-nity members.Former UF faculty member Dr. Dan 
Hawkins invited Grandin to come to UF after watching the HBO movie “Temple Grandin,” which shows her interest in ani-mals and her life as a person with autism.
“I saw the movie about her life two to 
three years ago, and I thought, ‘I really want to meet her,’” Hawkins said.
The equine surgeon said he contacted 
colleagues at Colorado State University, where Grandin lectures, to try and get her to come to UF.Grandin was com-
pletely booked through 2015 and most of 2016, he said, but she had a last-minute cancellation.
Hawkins said he’s 
looking forward to seeing Grandin speak with stu-
dents and faculty.
Bringing Grandin to 
UF cost $4,000, wrote Sarah Carey, direc-
tor of public relations for the UF College of Veterinary Medicine, in an email. The cost was split between the college and the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.
Michael Lattanzi, 21, said he’s going to 
the event. He is the IMPACT Autism at UF president, and his work within the organi-zation sparked his interest in Grandin.
“It’s important that her message is told 
to people of all ages, all generations,” the UF neurobiological sciences senior said.
Autism advocate and  farm-animal specialist to visit UFSEE SUSPENSION,  PAGE 19
Grandin
They violated team rules
“Jalen Tabor and Treon Harris won’t be 
with us this week, which simply means 
we’ve got to have some guys step up.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
SEE LAW,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
10th Annual Great Gator Health 
Fest
On Saturday, the College of Pharmacy’s APhA-ASP will be holding its 10th Annual Great 
Gator Health Fest at the Reitz 
Union Breezeway from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. There will be plenty of freebies from CVS, Walgreens, Earth Fare, Zoës Kitchen and more. Get your cholesterol, blood pressure and diabetes screened for free. Learn about health issues such as women’s health, poison 
control and nutrition for free.
Gay Movie Night
“Tiger Orange” will be shown 
on Friday, 7:30 p.m. at Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is re-
quested to help cover the cost of 
snacks.Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 23
HIGH  82° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
UF professors map Earth’s 
species
UF biology professor Doug Soltis is in 
South Korea for a conference to show his latest research project.
For the past three years, he has been 
creating a “Tree of Life” map with pro-fessors at 10 other colleges.  The map’s first draft was published on-
line last week and shows Earth’s 2.3 
million named species and the connec-tions between them, he said.“If you were to ask scientists about the ‘Tree of Life’ 15 years ago, they would 
say it’s not possible,” Soltis said.
The tree shows every relationship be-tween different groups of species, like mammals, fish and amphibians, Soltis 
said. It also shows how species have 
evolved.He said he thinks the biggest discovery from the research was finding out what scientists know about biodiversity as 
well as how much is still unknown.
He said the research is important be-cause it can lead to medical discoveries. For example, if a new virus was found, 
scientists would be able to reference the 
tree’s DNA database to see how similar viruses act.“Scientists can then develop new drugs from medicinal plants and their rela-
tives,” Soltis said.
This is the first time every known spe-cies has been put into one database, said 
UF biology professor Gordon Burleigh, 
who helped work on the project.“Knowing about the history of organ-isms can tell us a lot about their future,” he said.
Burleigh said he is proud UF has taken 
part in the research.“It shows UF has some people involved in cutting-edge biological research,” 
Burleigh said.
- Sara Perlman
UF faculty members research 
tastiest blueberries
UF researchers now know which blue-
berries you’ll enjoy the most.UF horticulture science alumna Jessica 
Gilbert worked with others in the hor-
ticulture department to determine what traits make the tastiest blueberries. They found people prefered blueberries 
with a balance of sugar and acid.
The researchers managed blueberry farms at UF and around Gainesville, which supplied the fruit that taste-tes-ters tried, Gilbert wrote in an email.
The researchers wanted to determine 
what traits added to a blueberry could give Florida blueberry producers a com-petitive advantage, said horticulture sci-ence professor Jim Olmstead.“Consumers primarily focus on flavor when considering blueberry purchas-
es,” Olmstead said. “Once we saw those 
results, flavor became a focus area, and this project was developed.”The research could change the way people buy blueberries in the future, 
Olmstead said. 
If Florida has tastier blueberries, farm-ers here have a better chance at selling them.
UF environmental engineering freshman 
Georgia Hayes said she would like to try better berries.“I love blueberries, but I don’t want to spend too much money on them,” the 
18-year-old said. “I try to find the bal-
ance between price and taste.”Gilbert said she doesn’t see price as an issue because these better-tasting blue-
berries, which are grown in conditions 
more suitable for taste, will be marked at premium prices for consumers inter-ested in that breed. They could be in grocery stores as soon 
as March or April.
“Scientists behind the scenes of your supermarket produce aisle are hard at work trying to develop fruits that ex-
ceed their expectations and delight the 
palette,” Gilbert said.
- Meryl Kornﬁ  eldTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
A bowl from Crane Ramen holds the restaurant’s fare. The restau-
rant is one of four restaurants invited to attend the New York Slur-pfest on Oct. 22.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
HIS HANDS DON’T HAZE
Manuel Estopinan (right), a 21-year-old UF political science senior, writes why he thinks hazing is wrong inside a tracing of his hand outside the Reitz Union on Wednesday. Adilene Hernandez (left) said Lambda Theta Alpha hosted a These Hands Don’t Haze table for National Hazing Preven-tion week. “You don’t need to haze in order to bring good people into your organizations, ” said the 22-year-old UF family, youth and community sciences senior.
THE NEWSPAPERS WERE 
PUBLISHED BETWEEN 
1836 AND 1922.
By Kylie Widseth
Alligator Contributing Writer
The George A. Smathers Librar-
ies received two large grants to digi-
talize newspapers and conduct re-search on credibility.
This month, the libraries were 
granted $288,000 to fund the Florida and Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper Project. The libraries also received a $491,822 grant to fund the “Re-searching Students’ Information Choices: Determining Identity and Judging Credibility in Digital Spaces” project. 
The first project, the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper Proj-ect, is part of the National Digital Newspaper Program, which funds 
UF to digitalize 210,000 pages of 
newspapers from Florida and Puer-to Rico, according to UF Smathers grants manager Bess de Farber.
The newspaper project will digi-
talize papers published between 1836 and 1922 and turn them into a searchable online database, de Far-ber said.
“Newspapers give you the ac-
count of daily life that is unavailable from other sources unless you have a diary or a journal entry,” de Farber said. 
The other grant-funded project 
will examine how students deter-
mine credibility when they conduct 
research, said Amy Buhler, UF direc-tor of the “Judging Credibility” proj-ect grant.
The project will make a simula-
tion, which will replicate what a Google search result might look like. Students will then select the resourc-es they would use for a specific proj-ect, she said.
“With the age of online infor-
mation, we are searching for little nuggets of information and not nec-essarily looking for where is that in-formation contained,” Buhler said.
UF business sophomore Andrea 
Martinez, 19, said she uses Google Scholar to conduct research because it helps her determine what is cred-ible by sorting information for stu-dents.
Martinez said she thinks the 
grant’s data could provide some in-sight into the way students conduct research.
“(The research) could show 
whether UF students are being edu-cated on how to find credible sourc-es,” Martinez said.
The grant will start Dec. 1 and 
run for three years. The project is partnering with the Online Computer 
Library Center and Rutgers Univer-
sity.
“The reason we are doing this 
project is because we hope to under-stand what students are facing when they are doing their online searching in this day and age,” Buhler said.
UF Libraries receive two grants to digitalize newspapers 
By Jessica Morales 
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Crane Ramen is headed to the Big Apple. 
The local ramen restaurant is one of four restau-
rants invited to attend the third annual New York Slur-
pfest on Oct. 22. Along with Crane Ramen, the restau-
rants invited to the event are Hidechan Ramen from Fukuoka, Japan; Ken’s Ramen from Providence, Rhode Island; and Gomaichi Ramen from Honolulu, Hawaii.
“Basically the theme of Slurpfest is showcasing dif-
ferent styles of ramen, so every single ramen partici-pant will be creating a different style of ramen,” said Minnie Kim, the social media marketing associate for Luckyrice, the company behind the event.
Kim said Luckyrice Sun Noodle Brand, the maker of 
the noodles Crane Ramen uses, asked the restaurant to attend because they wanted to showcase ramen from different regions. 
The event, which costs $100 to attend, allows guests 
to sample a bowl of ramen from each of the four restau-rants invited to the event. 
“They asked us to come up out of all the restaurants 
in the country, which we thought was quite an honor,” 
said co-owner Fred Brown.
The restaurant, which opened Dec. 1, will serve its Gator Shio Ramen — salt-based flavored ramen mixed 
with alligator meat and broth, swamp cabbage, roast-
ed corn and other local ingredients, during the event, 
which Brown described as “speed dating for ramen.”
“I think the... thing we’re excited about is trying to 
show New York and the rest of the world that just be-cause we’re in the south, doesn’t mean we don’t know 
how to make traditional flavors,” said Steve Grimes, 
the chef who will cook the ramen for the event. He said he will serve the ramen every Friday before a UF home football game to receive critique from customers.
Braden Li, a UF materials science and engineering 
senior, found out about Crane Ramen through Yelp back in March and has been eating there about three times a month since.
Li, 21, said he is not surprised that Crane Ramen 
was invited to go to Slurpfest.
“They put a lot of care and passion into their food, 
so I think that’s a big achievement for them to be going to an event like that,” Li said.Crane Ramen to show off its noodles
and not enough jobs.
Law school applications de-
clined after this, so now the num-
bers of lawyers and jobs have balanced out, Thomas said.
“Students are starting to re-
spond to that,” he said. “They’re seeing that law school is a good investment again.”
That investment is paying off 
for UF law students, who had an overall bar exam passing rate of 87.3 percent, the second highest in the state after Florida Inter-
national University, which has a 
passing rate of 89 percent.
Rosenbury said she attributes 
the Law school’s success to UF’s commitment to teaching critical thinking skills.
Third-year UF law student 
Lindsey Boyle said she’s taking the Virginia bar exam next July, 
and she feels UF has prepared her well.
“The good thing about UF, 
probably the primary thing about 
it, is that it teaches national law,” the 24-year-old said.
Rosenbury said she doesn’t 
think the college needs to im-prove its curriculum after seeing the successful bar exam results.
With the predicted increase 
in applications this year, she’s expecting to enroll students who are more qualified than previous classes.
Thomas said UF students 
should be aware that even though schools are expecting more ap-plicants, they won’t be accepting 
more students.
“Students should be extra dili-
gent, making sure they have awe-
some GPAs, great LSAT scores — all the things you want to do to put together a truly competitive and compelling application for law school,” he said.LAW,  from pg1UF has an 87.3 percent 
pass rate for the bar exam“They put a lot of care and passion into their 
food, so I think that’s a big achievement for them 
to be going to an event like that.”
Braden Li
UF materials science and engineering seniorTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
SANTA FE
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Senate has done 
a lot this semester — other than reviewing or 
passing any resolutions.
Since the end of summer, none of the 
senators has presented a resolution before 
the chamber. At Wednesday’s Senate meet-
ing, Senate President Carol Daugherty urged senators to begin thinking of ideas for resolu-tions, such as relocating an ATM on campus to make it more accessible for students on the weekends.
Most of Senate’s time this semester has 
been spent approving, reinstating and grilling new senators, directors and leadership team 
members.
In keeping with that trend Wednesday 
evening, Senate approved Tony Faieta as 
the parking/safety and transportation direc-tor, Sen. Benjamin Myers as bailiff, Christina Zaldivar as an at-large senator and reinstated two clubs from leaves of absence.
The lack of resolutions isn’t abnormal, 
said Myers, who has served in the chamber 
for more than a year. Senate generally spends the ﬁ  rst month or so warming up and getting 
the hang of things, he added.
“It’s a normal routine,” he said, adding 
he has “a couple resolutions… that will help students’ rights” he will present in coming weeks.
Pro tempore Matthew Pearson said the 
lack of resolutions is also in part because of a chamber full of new and inexperienced sena-
tors. He said he expects resolutions to start 
pouring in at the beginning of October.
Joshua Gomez, a replacement senator new 
to the chamber, also has ideas for resolutions. The only problem is he doesn’t know how to write resolutions — something he wants to change.
“I want to learn as much as possible (about 
writing resolutions),” the 19-year-old club 
senator said.
Student Government will host a training 
session Tuesday which will include lessons 
on how to write and format resolutions.SF Senate is resolution-ready
BP OFFERED $1 BILLION FOR 
THE GULF’S RESTORATION.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW ORLEANS — A panel on Wednesday 
approved using $134 million provided by en-ergy giant BP PLC on 10 projects to help the Gulf of Mexico recover from the 2010 oil spill.
The approval came from a trustee council 
made up of Gulf Coast states and federal ofﬁ  -cials overseeing ecological restoration from the offshore spill. About $126 million will go to 
helping sea turtles, ﬁ  sh, vegetation and birds 
and $8 million for increased recreational uses.
In 2011, BP offered to spend $1 billion to 
spur the recovery of the Gulf, anticipating fu-ture restoration costs meted out through the courts. BP is expected to spend billions of dol-lars more on restoration.
An April 2010 blowout at a well BP and its 
contractors were drilling touched off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The explo-sion and ﬁ  re aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig killed 11 workers, and it took crews nearly 
three months to cap the leak, which is esti-
mated at more than 130 million gallons of oil.So far, with the new projects included, 
about $832 million of the $1 billion has been awarded. The projects were announced previ-
ously in April.
The largest amount of money — more than 
$45 million — will go to measures to protect 
sea turtles, which are considered threatened and endangered throughout U.S. waters.  
The next largest amount of money — $30 
million — is for projects along the Mississippi coast. That money will be used to build about 272 acres of reefs and 4 miles of breakwaters. 
Alabama is to receive about $10 million for 
similar projects.
Meanwhile, about $20.6 million will be 
spent on bird nesting areas in Texas. This project will restore and protect three islands in Galveston Bay and one in East Matagorda Bay to provide more nesting habitat for brown peli-cans, gulls, great blue herons, roseate spoon-bills and other birds.
Another $20 million will pay ﬁ  shermen to 
set aside long lines during the six-month blue-ﬁ  n tuna spawning season and use other gear. The program is expected to last between ﬁ  ve and 10 years.$134M for recovery projects 
arising from 2010 Gulf Oil spill
“I want to learn as much as possible 
(about writing resolutions).”
Joshua Gomez
club senatorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Comedic journalism is informative and here to stay 
“The Daily Show” will soon be re-
turning with a new host: South African comedian Trevor Noah. 
While Trevor Noah will have 
large comedic shoes to fill, 
there is no doubt with time he will find his own unique style and will evolve alongside 
the show. Every satirical news show that has 
begun after “The Daily Show” takes, at the least, a few dozen episodes to find its niche. It even took Jon Stewart a while to build a loyal and devoted audience; in the end, “The Daily Show” and its 
counterparts have created a way for millennials to keep 
up with the news while having a (somewhat) good time doing it.
There are some who claim getting news from a 
30-minute comedy show is a preposterous notion. While these should not be an individual’s lone source of news, these programs provide interesting perspec-tives, or at least serve as compact refreshers on current issues. 
John Oliver has been able to create a show which 
thrives off of 20-minute segments on issues you did not even think posed problems in the world. For a genera-tion that gets entertainment from seven-second videos, 
there is power in the fact that John Oliver is able to 
retain an audience for that long of a time each week.
The argument also crumbles when you look into 
what it takes to make these types of shows. Comedians and their writers can’t rely solely on being hilarious, 
as they must also have a constant eye on the news as 
well as a critical and comprehensive understanding of the issues in order to make sense of what it all means.
Another reason our generation is flocking to come-
dic journalism is mainstream media is currently fail-ing at its job to inform the citizenry. Newspapers are migrating online and increasingly becoming on par with BuzzFeed with their click-bait articles. Meanwhile, the 24-hour news cycle 
tries to constantly create and extend news 
where there is no substance to be found. Things which would have been non-issues are now the top of the headlines in order to 
fill a break between commercials. The three 
main U.S. channels each have crippling flaws which render each of them ineffective. CNN 
will spend hours on graphs and simulations of events on what could have happened instead of actually ex-
plaining what happened. Fox News, and MSNBC to a 
lesser extent, creates further political polarization by claiming to be fair and balanced while at the same time pushing conservative or liberal talking points. 
There are good journalists in these institutions, but 
they are ultimately drowned out by the agendas set by their respective channels.
The model for the funny newsman does not seem to 
be leaving anytime soon. Stephen Colbert is continuing 
his political coverage but leaving his boisterous conser-
vative persona at home. 
John Oliver continues to have the so-called “John 
Oliver effect” where organizations take action because 
topics on the show prompt new awareness of an is-
sue followed by newly sparked dialogue. Larry Wilm-ore provides great discussion with his round-table seg-ments while also providing point of view as a black American. Even Fox News has attempted to get into 
the comedy news business by giving Greg Gutfeld, a 
popular comedian on FNC, his own show. 
Trevor Noah will have a lot of competition upon his 
arrival, but after all, competition breeds quality.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.Wesleyan, free 
speech and the 
state of modern 
American liberalism
This past Tuesday, Wesleyan University’s student newspa-
per, “The Wesleyan Argus,” published an opinion piece titled “Why Black Lives Matter Isn’t What You Think.” In it, the author postulates that while the BLM movement has noble intentions, it has had the unfortunate side effect 
of creating a hostile and violent environment for law enforce-ment. The piece draws a direct correlation between the recent murders of police officers and the proliferation of BLM’s ideals.
While we do not agree with the central thesis of the article, it 
was written in a respectful, non-inflammatory manner — it did not damn the raison d’être of BLM, nor did its content constitute anything resembling hateful speech or racism. Additionally, as a submitted opinions piece, it did not represent the views of the Argus as a whole.
The Student Body of Wesleyan saw it differently. Following 
the article’s publication, a petition circulated calling for a boy-cott of the paper as well as for it to lose its Student Government funding. The petition calls for individuals to destroy copies of the Argus until its demands are met. The petition and its proponents have gotten even more inflammatory than that, but we only have so much room to print.
Most of us at the Alligator willingly identify as progressive — 
we believe that significant inequalities exist in American society 
that require redress, and we believe the government and civil 
society ought to work in tandem to benefit all citizens, regardless of race, religion, income level, ideology or sexuality.
With that stated, we have to ask — what has happened to 
liberal and progressive ideals? When did it become acceptable to use bullying and intimidation tactics to get points across? How can young men and women, in ostensibly fighting to improve the lives of others, possibly think that hateful rhetoric serves to bet-ter the world around them? How does widening the ideological 
divide between Americans act in service of achieving a more fair 
and just world?
Moral outrage and calls for censorship were once thought of 
as strictly conservative stratagems — the days of burning Beatles records, claiming that “The Simpsons” destroys family values and the decrying of black musicians for corrupting the nation’s youth are long behind us, and that’s generally accepted as a good thing. Liberal activists who fought for the free expression of self and the expansion of rights defined the 20th century; why have 
their 21st-century equivalents adopted the methodology of those 
their intellectual forebears fought against?
The extremism demonstrated by Wesleyan students does not, 
and cannot, define progressive ideals. The actions of these indi-viduals undermine and devalue the worthy causes they claim to fight for. It is up to those young liberals who believe in discourse, the effectiveness of policy making and open discussion to decry these actions and truly embody the ideals that progressivism ad-vocates for.
We stand for more visibility and increased valuing of the 
lives of people of color. We stand for serious and comprehensive changes to be made to American policing. What we do not, will not and cannot stand for is arm-twisting tactics and censorship meant to dictate the speech of others.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, the hashtag #IStandWithAhmed 
started trending around the social me-dia sphere. It began with the story of a 
14-year-old dark-skinned boy of Sudanese 
origins who had a keen interest in invent-
ing. He brought a clock he made — comprised of wires, a display and a pencil case — to his 
high school in Irving, Texas, to show one of his 
teachers.
It was mistaken as a bomb, and police later 
arrested him despite his insistence that it was merely a clock. A police ofﬁ  cer at the scene, as Ahmed 
Mohamed was being arrested, reportedly said, “Yup. 
That’s who I thought it was.”
The charges were eventually dropped, but the school, 
police and city have issued no formal apology.
It later became a national discussion. The morning af-
ter the occurrence, there were more than 100,000 tweets with the aforementioned hashtag. A variety of people, who thought Mohamed was proﬁ  led simply because of his identity as a Muslim, tweeted in a call of solidarity for 
Mohamed. This included Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, 
science and engineering professionals, Google and Presi-dent Obama.
“Cool clock, Ahmed. Want to bring it to the White 
House? We should inspire more kids like you to like sci-ence. It’s what makes America great,” Obama said in a tweet. As well meaning as Obama intended to be, he failed to acknowledge the political context of the case: The arrest of Mohamed was an Islamophobic act.
Islamophobia could be thought of as prejudice and 
discrimination toward Muslims. It has been described more eloquently by Deepa Kumar, an associate professor of media studies and Middle Eastern studies at Rutgers 
University, as an “image of ‘Islam,’ (a) mythical creation 
conjured out of the needs of empire that has led even pro-gressives to claim that Muslims are more violent than any other religious group. It is . . . employed to generate fear and hatred.”
It is to construct Islam as monolithic. It would be simi-
lar to conﬂ  ating all white people with the likes of Timo-thy McVeigh, a white-supremacist who was responsible for the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995, which led to 168 
deaths.    
Widespread prejudice toward Muslim-Americans is 
quite apparent. A Gallup poll analysis on Islamophobia, 
gathered from 2011 data, found that 50 percent of respon-dents reported a great deal of prejudice toward Muslims; 
hate crimes against this sector of the population have es-
calated since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
Between 2011 and 2013 there were nearly 100 anti-Is-
lam hate crimes, according to FBI data.Last year, a shooting occurred in Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina, which led to the death of three Muslims. There has also been a slew of vandal-
ism among American mosques in recent years.
But is it conceivable that the U.S. govern-
ment, on an institutional or individual level, is 
complicit in making Islamophobia a social norm?
Obama has said publicly the war on terror is 
not a war on Islam. But why not show his sup-port for the Muslim-American community then? He hasn’t visited an American mosque once dur-
ing his two terms as president.
Between 2005 and 2011, the FBI created community 
outreach programs and utilized them for intelligence-gath-ering purposes to combat “terrorism,” effectively placing informants in densely populated Muslim-American com-
munities. There was also an intelligence leak last year 
which found a number of prominent Muslim-Americans’ emails had been surveyed by both the FBI and NSA be-tween 2002 and 2008.
These trends create an atmosphere of criminalization 
regarding Muslim-Americans, not an atmosphere of warm 
embrace or open arms.
“The war on terror is just America totally afraid of its 
own sadness,” wrote Janani Balasubramanian, a spoken-
word poet. “Victimhood is a chain reaction.”
It echoes a familiar story — the marginalization of a 
particular group of people as scapegoats during wartime has happened in different forms, much like the internment camps of Japanese-Americans after the Pearl Harbor at-tack, or the treatment of German-Americans as spies dur-
ing World War I.
Whether it’s rude remarks among strangers in the 
street, violence aimed at religious centers or a product of U.S. policy, it must be witnessed and critiqued to genu-
inely combat Islamophobia, which is nothing more than paranoia-induced hatred and violence.  
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn appears on Thursdays.U.S. government needs to combat Islamophobia   Column
Since waking up this morning, you’ve probably made 
countless decisions, and by the time you go to bed, you’ll have made countless more. One decision that you’ve made today is probably what you’re going to eat for lunch and with whom you are going to sit. 
Are you going to sit with the nerds? The dancers? Are you just going to sit alone?
The decisions continue as you go home from your classes. 
Is it time for a nap? Should you do your homework or watch TV? What should you eat at the dining hall or cook for din-ner? 
Did you notice all of the assumptions I made? A place as 
simple as a dining hall creates social ideas and stereotypes inside your head that may or may not be true. There are so-
cial ideas that exist because of the media, what your friends 
told you or what you grew up hearing. However, we need to break the cycle of stereotyping. I’ve found every person I’ve met has an incredible story, and when I heard that story, I felt bad for making any assumptions about them.
Maybe you think all political science students are really 
annoying. Chances are, not everyone who is a political sci-ence major is. Associating different students with certain ste-reotypes can impact their academic success. Being anxious 
about how others perceive you increases your stress level 
and lowers your chance to do well in school. Now, why am I not urging everyone in the world to break this cycle of ste-reotyping? Because change starts small. It’s worthless to tell people how to act if you yourself can’t be held accountable for the change you are trying to start.
College is supposed to be a place for freedom of expres-
sion — you are supposed to ﬁ  nd friends who are just as weird as you and with whom you feel comfortable talking 
about radical ideas.
It is supposed to be a place where you can ﬁ  t into as many 
boxes as you want, a place where no one can stop you or try 
to put you in only one box. Chances are, you and the people you’re stereotyping have more in common than you think. And even if you don’t have much in common, that’s OK! You can still respect your differences.
So now, it’s time for lunch. Who are you going to sit with? 
Don’t be afraid — we don’t bite. 
A version of this column by Martha Pietruszewski origi-
nally ran in The Minnesota Daily.How to win friends and 
become a better personColumn
Martha 
Pietruszewski
UWire
“As well meaning as Obama 
intended to be, he failed to 
acknowledge the political 
context of the case: The 
arrest of Mohamed was an 
Islamophobic act.”
Aubrey
 Krampert
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
TOP RIGHT:
Student Body Vice President 
Kevin Doan (left) and Student 
Senate Judiciary Chairman Jason 
Richards, both 20-year-old UF 
juniors, collide inside bubble soccer 
balls on Turlington Plaza. The Delta 
Epsilon Psi Fraternity let students 
try out these suits to advertise its 
Battle Balls event, a ﬁ  ve-on-ﬁ  ve 
game of bubble soccer to raise 
funds for Type 1 diabetes research.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Jonathan Beaubrun (left), 
a 20-year-old UF chemical 
engineering junior, ﬂ  icks a Frisbee 
to his friend Steven Fox, a 20-year-
old UF mechanical engineering 
junior, outside McCarty Hall. 
Beaubrun is on the UF Ultimate 
Frisbee team and said the Frisbee 
he tossed was “not very good. ” His 
best ones were at home.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Sebastian Marin (left), a 21-year-old UF psychology junior, pies Alyssa 
Skryd, a 19-year-old UF marketing 
sophomore, on Turlington Plaza. Pi 
Kappa Phi Fraternity and Pi Beta 
Phi Sorority were raising money for 
charities.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffDanielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Hope Golds, a 20-year-old UF theater junior, eats Krishna 
Lunch on the lawn outside McCarty Hall. She chose to eat on the lawn because the Plaza of the Americas was too crowded. “Not many people look up, ” Golds said. “I wanted to be away from technology and take everything in. ”Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Maude’s Side Car Bar to host drag show
The show will be at 10 p.m. on Friday, pg 13.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s Mediocre Advice, pg 10.Rap Roundup: The hottest new hip-hop, pg 10.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
How can Artwalk Gainesville 
promote even more local artists 
and businesses and raise funds for schools?
Longtime local artist Frank Curtis 
has been asking questions like this one since becoming the coordinator of Artwalk Gainesville, a self-guided 
tour which focuses on the abun-
dance of creativity in the Gainesville community. The event takes place the last Friday of every month from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
With this being Curtis’ ﬁ  rst Art-
walk as coordinator, he hopes to work toward leaving his mark on the already popular event.
“We’re looking for new ideas 
(too),” Curtis said, “and new ways to showcase everyone.”
Curtis coordinates Artwalk 
Gainesville as a volunteer — some-thing he sought out. As the third coordinator, Curtis wants to reach more parts of the community. The goal is to showcase various forms 
of art while getting more downtown 
businesses to become venues for the 
monthly event.
Through his participation in Art-
walk, he told former coordinator Nancy Hyer if she ever had to move on, he would be interested in taking over. Eventually, she recommended Curtis to the Arts Association of Ala-chua County, which helps fund the event. After interviewing with the association, he earned his current 
position.
“In addition to Arts Association 
of Alachua County, we are part-
nered with Visit Florida, the City of Gainesville and Culture Builds Flor-ida to bring Artwalk Gainesville to The Gator Nation,” Curtis said.
Artwalk features a map of par-
ticipating venues, making it easy for tour-takers to ﬁ  nd every participat-ing venue and exhibit. The event map can be found at artwalkgaines-
ville.com.
The monthly event is an inexpen-
sive way for businesses to get public-
ity and people coming through their doors, Curtis said. It cost businesses $30 to be featured on the map or $240 for an annual subscription.
The Hippodrome State Theatre is 
one of the recent downtown spots to 
become an annual subscriber, and 
Curtis is looking to make the sub-scriptions even more desirable.
“Artwalk presents so many things 
for the artists in town,” Curtis said, “but it really also helps out so many businesses.”
Friday’s Artwalk features the usu-al bars, restaurants and traditional galleries, but also more unusual lo-cations like yoga studios and tattoo parlors.
“We have just so much partici-
pation,” Curtis said. “Without that 
participation, it really wouldn’t hap-
pen.”
One new participant to Artwalk 
is Art Attack, a High Dive event founded and coordinated by local artist Sarah White.
While it’s the ﬁ  rst time Art Attack 
has paired with Artwalk, it’s not the ﬁ  rst time High Dive has participated 
in Artwalk. High Dive has partnered 
with Artwalk many times, according to Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents and the exclusive promoter for High Dive. He hopes pairing Art Attack with Artwalk will be beneﬁ  -cial for everyone involved.
“Sarah does a great job with Art 
Attack,” Lavery wrote in an email. “We couldn’t do it without her, and we are so happy that High Dive is the home for this wonderful com-munity event.”
Art Attack has even featured Cur-
tis’ own art. The show includes a 
variety of mediums.
“It’s pretty much an explosion 
of different types of artists,” White 
said.
White encourages people of all 
skill levels to be vendors. She wants 
both professionals and people who 
have never shown their work before to be able to showcase their art in a comfortable and fun environment.
Friday’s Art Attack will even fea-
ture an artist who will be showing her artwork while dressed as a mer-maid.
“I just want to help support (and) 
increase the art culture,” White said, “but at the same time make it really hip and interesting and a fun place to hang out.”
White feels strongly about keep-
ing Art Attack free for her vendors — something she said is virtually unheard of. The public will also 
beneﬁ  t from no entrance fee, but a 
donation jar will be set up by the door for those who want to support the scene. All donations will go to keeping art alive, White said, so Art Attack can remain free of charge for the patrons and vendors.
For White, the goal is to help 
a budding art community in 
Gainesville continue to grow and to encourage people to buy local art.
With diverse venues and par-
ticipation from Gainesville’s creative 
community, the new coordinator believes there’s something for ev-eryone.
“Artwalk is not so unique,” Cur-
tis said. “I think Gainesville is unique with all the startups, businesses and creative people that are willing to in-vest in their community and make 
Artwalk Gainesville its own event.”
Artwalk Gainesville hires new coordinator, adds venues
ABOVE:
Local caricature artist 
Corinne Halley draws a caricature of a patron’s dog during February’s Art At-tack at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. High Dive’s Art Attack will be part of Artwalk Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time on Friday. While the event is free, donations are welcomed to keep the event free of charge for its patrons and vendors.
Courtesy to the Alligator
LEFT:
Local painting artist Aman-da Moon showcases her work at High Dive during February’s Art Attack. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Event is 7 p.m. Friday10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
Johnny Depp ﬁ  nally shed the pi-
rate get-up and crawled out of Tim 
Burton’s tight grasp to portray real-life mob boss James “Whitey” Bulg-er in last weekend’s “Black Mass.” 
While the ﬁ  lm was able to resurrect 
Depp’s acting credentials, it was incapable of reviving itself after a jumbled beginning.
The crime drama tells the story 
of Bulger trying to take over the streets of South Boston in the 1970s. When Bulger ﬁ  nds out his childhood friend John Connolly (Joel Edger-
ton) works for the FBI, he must 
decide whether it is worth being a government informant — or a rat, as he disdainfully calls it — in order to obliterate a rival gang. Based on a biographical novel, “Black Mass” explores the tricky relationship be-tween law enforcement and criminal mobs through a surplus of subplots, 
which leave the audience struggling 
to keep up.
The majority of the ﬁ  lm is ex-
position, which introduces and juggles more characters than direc-tor Scott Cooper and the audience can handle. While some of the side characters serve a small purpose, like Bulger’s politician brother Billy 
(Benedict Cumberbatch), who adds 
to the governmental plot, few others have any reason whatsoever to exist in the narrative.
Between every brutal blow and 
strong line of dialogue is a drawn-out sequence meant to humanize the characters, though these only prove to be awkward considering the characters are unlikable. Scenes that should be emotional are instead overly dramatized to the point that they do not feel serious at all.
There is one reason to see the 
ﬁ  lm: the performances. Depp is riv-eting and intimidating. His name will likely be tossed around during upcoming award shows. Cumber-batch, though playing a minor role, is also impressive with a Bostonian accent. 
A small part by Kevin Bacon as 
an FBI ofﬁ  cial reveals he, too, can 
still hold his weight in the movies. 
Any discrepancies in the writing are easily overcome by these top-billed actors — their unsettling blue eye contacts, however, are not so easily overcome.
Though it could have used more 
violence and fewer characters, “Black Mass” is by no means a fail-
ure. It still provides an interesting 
interpretation of Bulger’s life and his rise to prominence, though its depictions of real events have been contested. The ﬁ  lm’s greatest ﬂ  aw is that it simply gives so much it’s almost criminal.Depp plays riveting 
role in ‘Black Mass’ 
FILM
RAP ROUNDUP: THE HOTTEST NEW HIP-HOP ff the Record
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Young Thug
“Slime Season” – Sept. 16Sept. 16 marked the beginning of “Slime 
Season.” Young Thug has quickly risen to 
the top of the game in a couple of years and 
proves why he deserves to be there with this mixtape. Following up his last project, “Barter 6,” which was released back in April, Thug dropped an 18-track mixtape to hold us over until “Hy!£UN35” gets released.
“Slime Season” surprisingly starts off with 
“Take Kare,” which features Lil Wayne. The song came out October 2014, and, despite Wayne and Thug’s ongoing beef, it still made 
the cut. Other features on “Slime Season” 
come from Migos’ own Quavo and Offset as well as Peewee Longway and Young Ralph -- all Atlanta rappers. 
Production on this mixtape came from 
industry heavy-hitters Zaytoven, Southside, MetroBoomin, London on da Track and Issac Flame. The mixtape features a variety of songs, 
from bangers like “Stunna” and “Best Friend” 
to “Calling Your Name,” an up-tempo dance track that samples Ellie Goulding’s “Holding On.” Young Thug put out an album-quality mixtape that you’ll have on repeat for a couple 
of days. Deﬁ  nitely worth checking out. Final 
rate: 8/10.Migos
“Back to the Bando” – Sept. 17
Migos is going from the charts back to the 
bando with this mixtape. Following its debut album “Young Rich Nation,” which was re-leased in late July, Migos dropped “Back to the 
Bando” late last week. The tape doesn’t have 
any featured rappers, but it does include plenty of production from frequent collaborator Zay-toven.
Despite leaving the label 300 Entertainment 
and having rapper Offset currently in jail, the group still manages to put out music, solidify-ing its spot at the top of the game. Migos has proven time after time it might be one of the 
most consistent rap groups as it continues to 
deliver that heat. Final rate: 6.5/10.
Mac Miller
GO:OD AM – Sept. 18
I didn’t consider myself a fan of Mac Miller, 
but after listening to this album, I can conﬁ  -
dently say I am now. “GO:OD AM” is the third album from the Pittsburgh rapper, and it just 
might be his best. Miller switched up his style 
on this album, and it deﬁ  nitely shows his pro-gression as an artist. “GO:OD AM” is a combi-nation of laid-back beats, bars for days and a 
smooth ﬂ  ow. 
Mac Miller shows us why he deserves to be 
considered one of the best right now. Mac put together a great album with only a handful of 
features coming from Ab-Soul, Lil B, Miguel, 
Chief Keef and Little Dragon. “GO:OD AM” is 
an absolute must-listen. Final rate: 8/10.
Chief KeefBang 3, Pt. 2 – Sept. 18
While most people are quick to write off 
anything Chief Keef puts out as “trash,” that’s 
not the case with this album. “Bang 3, Pt. 2” is the second half of the double-album “Bang 
3,” which was released in August. Whether 
or not you like Chief Keef, you can’t help but vibe to some of the songs on this album. After being dropped from Interscope last year and then signing to FilmOn Music, the Chi-Town 
rapper said he’s been experimenting with his 
sound on “Bang 3,” and you can deﬁ  nitely see how far he’s come. “Part 2” is almost entirely produced by Chief Keef himself. The album’s 
heavy use of autotune seems to work for Keef. 
If you’re expecting sophisticated rap and 
meaningful lyrics, then this is most deﬁ  nitely 
not for you. However, if you like catchy songs and something you can work out or turn up to, 
then by all means give “Bang 3, Pt. 2” a listen. 
Final rate: 6/10.
Drake & Future
What A Time To Be Alive – Sept. 20
Do I really have to write something? The 
two hottest rappers made a mixtape together, and it crashed the Internet. There were rumors going around about a joint project from Drake 
and Future, but on Drake’s sixth episode of 
OVO Sound Radio Sunday night, he exclu-sively debuted his joint mixtape with Future on Beats 1. 
“What A Time To Be Alive” is Drake’s sec-
ond project he’s put out in 2015, and, as for Future, WATTBA is the ﬁ  fth project he has re-leased in the last calendar year. 
Future has made his way from being a pop-
star to being at the top of the rap game because of his last ﬁ  ve projects. He found a sound that works for him and expanded his fan base on his way to earning a No. 1 album with “Dirty Sprite 2.” Combine Future’s dominance over 
the past year with Drake, who hits all types of 
demographics, and you get a mixtape that’s an instant classic. 
Beats 1 Radio is a 24/7, worldwide radio 
station, and Drake being able to share WATT-BA to millions of people around the world is nothing short of insane. Factor in everything I mentioned so far, and it wouldn’t be surpris-ing if the mixtape sold over 700,000 units in its 
ﬁ  rst week. 
Drake and Future know they’re two of the 
biggest artists in the game, and they made our 
dreams come true. If you haven’t listened yet, 
then you absolutely should. The mixtape is 
available for purchase on iTunes or for stream-ing on Apple Music. Final rate: 10/10.
MEDIOCRE ADVICE
RecSports scheduled a ﬂ  ag football game 
during Yom Kippur and won’t change the time. 
Should I play, or should I pull a Sandy Koufax?
- A Religiously Conscious Athlete
First, shout out to all my Jews out there. 
You should go listen to Lil Dicky, Drake and Mac Miller’s new music and support the Jew-ish rap game. Their albums are straight ﬁ  re. I swear, when I was listening to Mac Miller’s new album in my bed, he was spitting so much ﬁ  re I could have sworn he quite literally transformed into a Charizard. Drake’s new tracks are Carmen Sandi-FUEGO. Lil Dicky’s 
s*** is hotter than how Chipotle tastes to my 
grandma.
Sorry, back to your question. They sched-
uled a game on the holiest holy day of all?! Won’t reschedule?! Blasphemous! Instead of realizing you have to miss one extremely in-consequential ﬂ  ag football game, you should make this into a national conﬂ  ict. I mean, it’s 2015, right? Let’s see what we as a country 
have gotten infuriated with so far this year: gay 
rights, feeling marginalized for not supporting gay rights, a dentist shooting a lion, deﬂ  ated balls, crooked soccer ofﬁ  cials, a “fake” black person, Ariana Grande licking donuts and many more “stories” your best friend’s mom shared on Facebook. My advice: Don’t settle this with UF. Go straight to Fox News. Write them an anonymous letter informing them of 
RecSport’s  glaring anti-Semitism and intoler-
ance toward religious students, and then fabri-cate a singular anecdote to back up your story. 
Just kidding — This is probably the only 
time I will ever say this, but don’t listen to me.I’m joking. They say all good jokes contain 
elements of truth, and this is what makes this response so unbearably sad. No matter who you are or what faction you identify with in our quick to jump, trigger-happy, gut-reaction 
approving society saturated with manufac-
tured conﬂ  ict, you won’t be able to win in 2015.
To whom it may concern,When is “Gator Growl” and how much are 
tickets?
-Allie Karlardi
Wait. I got one question for you, and it’s 
not “WHAT ARE THOSEEEEE?!?!”
It’s, “Are you a freshman, but more im-
portantly… DO YOU WEAR CROCS AROUND CAMPUS?!?!” Good question though, Alex. There’s this crazy thing nowadays called the Internet. It’s essentially a series of tubes that can give you answers to dumb questions. You should try to use it and Google “When is Gator 
Growl 2015?” Actually, you literally don’t even 
have to put “2015” at the end of it -- or the question mark. You can just type in “When is Gator Growl,” and soon you will become self-actualized.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English senior. 
His column appears in the Avenue section on Thursdays. 
If you have any questions you would like to 
see answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com, and specify whether you prefer to stay anonymous.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
Take a sip…
 When Oswald gets mad 
at someone for calling him 
“Penguin”
 When Jim telling the truth 
gets him into trouble
 When you ﬁ  gure out who the 
Riddler is
 When Bruce ignores Alfred
Take a shot…
 When you recognize a DC 
character
 When a young Catwoman 
makes an appearance Every time you recognize a 
new villain
 When you ﬁ  gure out who 
Poison Ivy is
Finish your drink…
 When the Gotham City Police 
Department negotiates with 
crooks
 When someone dies
 Every time a crime is covered 
up
 When  Penguin  mutilates 
someone
 When Bruce Wayne discovers 
something shockingIn honor of the new season of Fox’s 
“Gotham,” which aired 8 p.m. Monday, 
the Avenue is bringing you yet another binge-drinking game.
“Gotham” follows the story of Com-
missioner James “Jim” Gordon in pre-Batman Gotham City. Facing corruption within the Gotham City Police Depart-ment, Gordon (Ben McKenzie) makes it his goal to clean up the department from the inside. Meanwhile, his partner Harvey Bullock (Donal Logue) sets out to reveal to Gordon the harsh realities within the department. While the two try to crack the case of who really killed Bruce “Batman” Wayne’s parents, the show’s “good guys” are forced to make negotiations with crooks for the “greater good” of Gotham. The series features a young Bruce Wayne and introduces DC characters such as the Riddler and Pen-guin, who is a villain-in-the-making in the show.
With 22 episodes streaming on Net-
ﬂ  ix and four days until Monday, you’ll have just enough time to catch up on the whole ﬁ  rst season before the second epi-sode of season two airs on Monday.
By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Trebel may spell t-r-o-u-b-l-e for popu-
lar MP3 music download sites. 
The music-downloading app allows us-
ers to preview and download songs that 
are stored on the app. The download is free and can be accessed at trebel.io/dl or the App Store.
Piracy is an unspoken phenomenon 
among music lovers, so having access to 
my favorite music while knowing the mu-
sic artists will be compensated for their craft was a win-win for me.
I spoke to Gary Mikikian, who designed 
Trebel exclusively through the company M&M Media, Inc.  
He said the mission was to create a 
medium for music lovers to download the music that they loved through a platform 
that compensated the artists behind the 
music and ultimately eliminate music rip and torrent sites.
 “Music is valuable and should always 
be paid for,” said Gary Mekikian, CEO of M&M Media.
 One of my favorite features was the 
ability to share playlists with friends and family. I can download a song and add it 
to a playlist specially designed for anyone 
I choose to create one for.
The app also allows users to join a mu-
sic community where they can add their peers to their networks and explore new music while sharing with friends. It’s a 
nifty feature to have when you want to 
share your favorite new Pitbull song with your lab partner.
 Sounds too good to be true? Well, there 
is one little caveat. Ads. We all know what they are, and we all hate them. When us-ing Trebel, banner ads run on the bottom of the screen, and when you accidentally click it, you get redirected to an even big-
ger advertisement.
 It’s not enough to put me off, though, 
because the paid advertising is what com-
pensates the artists. So to prove the old saying, you can’t have your cake and eat it, too.
 I use the app in companionship with 
Spotify, which is a music streaming ser-vice most people are familiar with. So I don’t rack up tons of data, I ﬁ  nd my favor-
ite songs on Spotify and then download 
them into Trebel. Boom. Stored for as long as I keep the app on my phone.
 I can jam out to whatever I’ve down-
loaded on the go without using up pre-
cious data. 
Not all students are hip to the rhythm 
of Trebel. 
I spoke to graduate student Shalanté 
Tyson who said even though music is her 
motivation, she doesn’t see herself using 
Trebel anytime soon.
“I feel like Pandora is enough,” the 
24-year-old counseling student said. “I 
just think anything else is excess.”
Personally, I enjoy Trebel over the al-
ternatives. It has neat design features that were created by co-founders Juliette and Grace Mekikian as well as about 200 other college aged students. It’s an app crafted 
for millennials by millennials. 
My overall thoughts? Trebel is a great 
app for people who love music. Period. 
The ads don’t interrupt the downloads or previews, and the more that come your 
way, the more points you earn to actually 
keep the song. The most important part? The artists are being paid for their hard work. 
Trebel may have the potential to make 
piracy via rip sites obsolete, but who knows? This app could be the start of a new musical revolution, or it could turn into another dud long forgotten. Time will 
eventually tell if Trebel is worth the space 
or even worth the trouble.Review: New music app 
is win-win despite ads
TECHNOLOGY
“I feel like Pandora is enough. I just 
think anything else is excess.”
Shalanté Tyson
UF graduate student12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
By Monica Andrade
Avenue Writer
After users have waited for 
several years, Facebook will soon 
come out with a “dislike” button.
The purpose of the button will 
be to reinforce positivity, and some students at the University of Florida have expressed mixed 
reactions to the news.
Kyle Bell, a UF telecommuni-
cation sophomore, said he fears 
some will abuse the feature. 
“While it would deﬁ  nitely 
have some implications that are practical for people who know how to use it,” Bell, 19, said, “having a dislike button could 
also be used very badly by a lot 
of people.”
Instead of being able to dislike 
a post, Bell said people should just use the comment section for 
more constructive criticism rath-
er than pushing a button.
On the other hand, Andrew 
Selepak, the director of the social 
media Master’s program in UF 
College of Journalism and Com-munications, said he thinks the button will work effectively for users if done correctly. 
Mark Zuckerberg said the 
sole purpose of the feature is to express empathy during a live question-and-answer session at Facebook’s headquarters in Cali-
fornia Sept. 15.
It may not feel comfortable to 
“like” a person’s post if he or she 
is sharing something sad, wheth-
er it pertains to a personal matter or current events, said Zucker-
berg, Facebook co-founder and CEO. 
Selepak agreed and said the 
button would give people more options to show support and con-tinue to be positive while doing so quickly and easily.
“Most of the time, if you’re 
posting something to Facebook, it’s going to be positive,” he said. “We do this because we want to 
project a positive image of our-
selves.”
Even when users post some-
thing negative, they do so be-cause they want others to sup-
port them and rebuild their ego, 
Selepak said.
Users have asked for a “dis-
like” button ever since the “like” 
button came out in 2009.
The company has held off on 
such a feature in order to avoid a 
Reddit-style system where upvot-ing and downvoting is the stan-
dard among users.
Paige Harris, an 18-year-old 
exploratory freshman, said she 
feels people would misuse the 
feature. 
“If you get a lot of people that 
converge on one person’s status,” 
she said, “it could almost be con-sidered a form of cyber-bullying.”
Selepak said he understands 
there could be people who abuse the “dislike” button, but he sup-ports the company’s decision to 
want to include one in the future.
“Facebook is really into posi-
tive social change,” he said, 
“whether you agree with it or not.”Facebook to add ‘dislike’ button
UF responds to decision
“If you get a lot of people 
that converge on one 
person’s status it could 
almost be considered a 
form of cyber-bullying.”
Paige Harris
UF exploratory freshmanBy Kemi Thomas
Avenue Writer
Swamp Head Brewery is offer-
ing the chance to try a different craft beer every week. The catch? 
Get there early because they only 
release 5 gallons.
The seven-year-old company 
hosts the Ephemeral Release Se-
ries, where the public can taste a 
uniquely crafted beer every Tues-day at The Wetlands from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. Customers pay $5 for a 
take-home pint glass.
Twenty-four-year-old Alex 
Roe is a third-year student at the 
Levin College of Law and a Tues-day regular.
“Some of the beers they have 
on Tuesdays are crazy. You can potentially try a beer that you will never be able to get again,” Roe said. “It also doesn’t hurt 
that there is a tour every Tuesday 
where you pay ﬁ  ve dollars, get a pint glass to take home, a beer to try, and the tour itself.”The event was created a little 
more than a year ago as an op-
portunity for people to try new 
beers made from the brewery’s pilot system, a small brew system which is used to come up with new and innovative recipes.
“We’re toying around with 
so many different beer styles, so many different unique ingredients that depending on the Tuesday 
there very well may be something 
on tap that reaches very far be-yond your typical beer drinker,” said Brandon Nappy, tactical marketing manager of Swamp 
Head Brewery.
The ingredients vary from 
chocolates and fruits to different 
herbs.
James Gregory Jenkins, the 
Gainesville area community am-bassador for Yelp, can attest to that when he tried Catherine’s Sweetness.
“A beer that tastes like Reese’s 
Cup is a beer I’ll order anyway,” he wrote in an email.  Ephemeral Release 
has continued success
 FOODTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
Drag queens are taking it to the down-
town streets of Gainesville on Friday.
Downtown Drag: Drag Queens Take 
it to the Streets! will begin at 10 p.m. at 
Maude’s Side Car Bar, 101 SE Second Place.
Local fashion designer Bob Coleman, 28, 
is one of the main people putting together 
the drag show. The show is the most recent 
installment of the Downtown Drag series, which started July 18.
“It’s only been going on for two or three 
months and it’s gotten a huge reaction out 
of the community,” Coleman said. “It’s 
easy to put anything together at Maude’s because of the type of people that come there…so many people (are) willing to help 
and give really good ideas.” 
The free event offers a variety of drink 
specials as well as VIP seating.
The idea was introduced when Cole-
man’s friend, Jackson Sabbegh, introduced him to the idea of drag shows. Coleman 
found the idea could bring in business to Maude’s Side Car Bar, where he bartends on Friday nights.
“We weren’t making enough money so I 
thought I should do a crazy-ass show and this is what happened,” Coleman said. 
Coleman is also the owner and founder of Bobby Foxx Designs, a local jewelry line. He is studying studio art with a focus in 
metalworking and jewelry design at Santa 
Fe College.
 While Coleman works the bar and over-
looks the event, Queen De Caf will be the master of ceremonies. The show will have 
performances from queens Marina Ma-
roney and Nicki Mirage, a burlesque num-ber by Kitty LaTush, an appearance by drag king Dick Tracey and entertainment by DJ 
Tierney.
“You are not performing as yourself, 
you are performing as your persona,” said 
Nick Cavallaro, 22, a biological engineer-ing major at UF. For Cavallaro, drag is his 
“creative outlet.” He began performing as 
his drag persona Nicki Mirage in September 2013.
Cavallaro performs monthly as Nicki Mi-
rage at University Club for “Sexxxy Satur-days.” He began performing at Maude’s be-cause it was a fun new show in town which gave him the ability to develop it however he wants.
“I can perform more obscure music for 
my numbers and it will still be well re-ceived,” Cavallaro said.
Twenty-two-year-old Drew Aldrich, a 
political science major at UF, performed for his ﬁ  rst time in Washington, D.C., while he was there on an internship in July 2014. The experience was “surreal.”
“Growing up I’ve always wanted to be a 
performer,” Aldrich said. “Drag has really given me the opportunity to be the star.”
His drag persona is Marina Maroney. 
According to the persona’s Facebook page, Marina Maroney is a Florida sweetheart 
and D.C. political queen.
When coming to the show, the audience 
can expect a lot of good dance numbers, a 
lot of laughs and a lot of audience interac-tion, Aldrich said.
“As performers, we perform as well as 
our audience responds so we love interact-ing with the audience,” Aldrich said.
 What is unique about Maude’s drag 
show is it takes place outside, between the 
bar and the Hippodrome State Theatre. By 
hosting the event outside of Maude’s, the underground art is exposed.
“The thing about drag is that it’s always 
done in closed doors…not a lot of people 
are ever exposed to it,” Coleman said. “The 
cool thing about our venue is that it’s a por-tal between the mainstream and the sub-culture.”
The street is the queens’ stage and their 
props are the audience and unsuspecting passersby that get wooed in by their per-formances
Unlike drag shows in clubs or indoor 
venues, the patrons have given Coleman, the queens and the performers complete creative freedom to make the show their own.
“Maude’s has really let the queens take 
control of the show,” Aldrich said. “It’s kin-da grown organically; us queens are able to do basically whatever we want to do.”
Coleman has planned and worked in 
fashion shows in the past but ﬁ  nds plan-ning drag shows to have less structure and “more humor.”
“I think what I’ve learned through all 
this is if you ﬁ  nd the right people and you put them together, they can do amazing things,” Coleman said. “Just coordinate and let them get creative.”
The event has been growing consistent-
ly over the last few months. An upcoming drag show is scheduled for Oct. 9.
“If anyone wants a show that’s a little 
different than your conventional drag show, 
this is the show for them,” Cavallaro said. 
“You never totally know what to expect at Maude’s, other than to have a good time.”
Maude’s Side Car Bar to host drag queen show on Friday
NIGHTLIFE
“The thing about drag is that it’s 
always done in closed doors…not a lot 
of people are ever exposed to it.”
Bob Coleman
Local designerTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE MID DECEMBER!2BR/2BA at The Laurels Apt, $940/mo through July 2016, 1 mo free! Will pay $50 app fee! Full size W/D in unit. Call Yvonne @ 407-489-9323    9-25-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
GOATS - $125 - $250SHEEP - $200 - $300
Call Michael 352-316-2427     9-29-15-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12  
 
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring finishers. Performance based pay $10-$15 hr. Must have drivers license and weekend availabil -
ity. Apply online or in person. parkplacecar -
wash.com or 7404 NW 4th Blvd   9-25-15-4-14
AllChem Industries is looking for an accounts payable / admin assistant. Three afternoons per week 1.30-5.30pm, one of the afternoons must be Friday. Up to six month position with potential to continue depending upon the needs of the business. Send your resume to rp0709@allchem.com.    9-29-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: October 5, 2015 at 5:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     9-24-1-20
Designated drivers are the greatest
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 20 Event Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics, 
follow us on Twitter at@alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsThe Florida men's tennis team will open its season at the Bedford Cup and in the Napa Valley T ournament. Read the story pg. 20SAVANNAH JORDAN IS 
THE SIXTH GATOR WITH 
50 CAREER GOALS.
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
It took just 56 games for Savan-
nah Jordan to make Florida history.
In the Gators women’s soccer 
team’s (7-2-0) 6-1 win over FIU 
(4-5-0) Sunday, the junior forward 
scored her 50th and 51st career goals.
The Fayetteville, Georgia, na-
tive is one of six Gators in program history to reach the 50 career-goal milestone.
It is ﬁ  tting that Jordan joined 
the list of UF greats, which in-cludes forwards Abby Wambach and Danielle Fotopoulos, the same week that pictures of the two for-mer Gators along with defender 
Heather Mitts were placed along 
the wall of the Gators’ practice ﬁ  eld.
Fotopoulos is the only Gator in 
program history to score 50 career goals in fewer matches than Jordan (33 games).
Jordan has been an offensive 
powerhouse since she made her collegiate debut in 2013, and she led the Southeastern Conference in goal scoring last year.
“Savannah deﬁ  nitely scores 
goals,” coach Becky Burleigh said. 
“We really took advantage of 
the opportunities we had. I think we ended up having had seven or eight shots on goal and six of ‘em scored.
“That’s a pretty efﬁ  cient rate. 
That’s not normal and I think Sa-
vannah kind of epitomizes that. 
She deﬁ  nitely puts away the chanc-es she has.”
In 2013, Jordan started all 24 
games for the Gators and scored 22 goals.
During her sophomore cam-
paign, Jordan added 19 goals to ﬁ  nish with 41 in her ﬁ  rst two sea-sons. 
She is one of only two sopho-
mores in Florida history to have 
that many goals at the end of year 
two — the other is Wambach.
“I think being mentioned with 
any of those guys’ names is a great honor, but I give all the credit to my team,” Jordan said. 
“My biggest goal was to come 
in here and win games. I wanted to help improve the program and help get us all the titles all the teams have had before.
“That was my No. 1 goal, is just 
doing anything I could to help the team win and it just kind of hap-pened that I fell into the role of a goal scorer.”
Jordan is one of four current 
NCAA Division I players that have scored 50 or more career goals and is the only junior on that list.
In the last 10 years, Jordan is 
one of only 10 players to score 50 
or more career goals by the mid-
way point of their junior seasons, the most recent being Illinois State forward Rachel Tejada (2011-2014).
While Jordan acknowledges the 
honor of being recognized as one of the highest scoring players in UF history, she said a scoring title isn’t what she’ll be focused on during her ﬁ  nal year and a half at Florida.
“If it’s someone else scoring the 
goals, that’s great as well. As long as we keep winning and doing our job, that’s what I’m hoping for.”
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan takes a shot during Florida's 2-1 loss to T exas A&M on Sept. 10 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Making the most of her chances
TORRES TELLS IT
Florida is off to a 3-0 start this year and 
while there is some optimism around the program, there’s one glaring 
weakness that stands out above the 
rest: The play of the offensive line.
There were many questions entering the 
season concerning how much depth the line 
had and how it would shape up. 
And through three games, those ques-
tions are starting to be answered and they 
conﬁ  rm the team's worst fears. 
The Gators’ offensive line has been the worst unit on the team.
The line the coaching staff 
is putting out on the ﬁ  eld right 
now consists of a rotation that 
had ﬁ  ve players — Mason Hal-ter, Martez Ivey, Fred Johnson, Tyler Jordan and Travaris Dors-
ey — make their debut in South-
eastern Conference play against Kentucky on Saturday.
Combine those ﬁ  ve with David Sharpe, 
Trip Thurman, Cam Dillard and Antonio Riles — a converted defensive lineman — the line has under-whelmed so far.
Florida’s offensive line is 
not good enough for UF to win games as it starts to get into the heart of its schedule.
It was bullied in the second 
half as it struggled against the Wildcats to protect quarterback 
Will Grier and open up holes for the running backs.The line will go up against some of the 
best defensive lineman in the SEC in the next couple of games and head coach Jim 
McElwain is aware of the challenges those 
defensive fronts present.
“We’re going to start to play some real 
D-linemen – glass-eaters and ﬁ  re-breathers,” 
McElwain said. 
“You’re going to have to get off the ball, 
play with pad level and get your second step 
in the ground snap your hips.”The development of Florida's inexperienced oﬀ  ensive line is key to success
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 18
"Don't know where the rumors started, I'm good and not 
missing a game!! #BeatUT"
Alex McCalister (@ChampagneCali)
UF football player
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
The line is having trouble get-
ting into their second step, espe-
cially in the running game. It's 
supposed to create holes for the 
running backs to run through, but Florida’s line isn’t creating lanes consistently. 
The running game is averaging 
170 yards per game which ranks 81st nationally. And it gets worst for the Gators if you take into ac-count how frequently quarter-
backs Will Grier and Treon Harris 
scrambled in those games.
If you take out the quarterbacks 
— Grier, Harris and Josh Grady’s 
two runs against New Mexico State 
— along with wide receivers Bran-don Powell and Antonio Callaway, the running backs are averaging 4.03 yards per carry and 107.3 
yards per game.
That’s not good enough to win 
games in the SEC, and most of that 
poor production can be placed on 
the shoulders of the offensive line 
because they are struggling to cre-ate holes for the backs. 
Kelvin Taylor, UF’s leading 
rusher, has just 154 yards on 40 
carries through three games and 
the line can’t expect the running backs to run east and west against SEC-caliber defenses. 
They need to create creases for 
the backs to run north and south so they can get up the ﬁ  eld quickly.
The interior of the offensive line 
has struggled mightily as Thur-man, Dillard and Riles have been wildly inconsistent. Offensive line coach Mike Summers has seen 
how much they’ve struggled, but 
he isn’t ready to make wholesale changes.
“I would be more leaning to-
ward trying to solidify the inside. 
What we have to do to get that 
done, we’ll continue to do,” Sum-mers said. “But this position is not like wide receiver. You can’t just 
throw ﬁ  ve new guys out there ev-
ery series and expect it to get bet-ter.”
If the Gators don’t make chang-
es to the offensive line, then they 
will have no shot down the stretch. 
The line needs to step up, and 
if it doesn’t the running game will 
continue to be nonexistent. 
Whoever is taking snaps at 
quarterback will be running for his life the line doesn't provide better protection. 
Total starts along 
Florida’s offensive line
 LT David Sharpe - 3
 LG Trip Thurman - 13 C Cam Dillard - 3 RG Antonio Riles - 3 RT Mason Halter - 36  
 (33 at FCS Fordham)
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF center Cam Dillard prepares to snap the ball during Florida's 31-24 win against East Carolina on Sept. 12 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
COLUMN,  from pg 17THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
chance to do so against Tennessee.
McElwain said he was “hurt” by the two 
suspensions but said both players made 
“choices” that left the Gators with no choice but to suspend the pair.
“I’m not angry at them at all. It’s a 
choice,” McElwain said. “It hurts, because we’ve got a lot of guys that really care about this team, and we’ll have to have some of the guys to step up and play.”
With Grier set to start against Tennes-
see, UF will look to Vanderbilt transfer Josh Grady to ﬁ  ll the role of backup quarterback.McElwain admitted Grier has an oppor-
tunity to prove he can run the offense ef-fectively and possibly become the de facto starter for the foreseeable future.
“He’s going to have an opportunity to 
run the ship,” McElwain said about Grier. “We knew we were thin at the (quarter-back) position coming in.”
Tabor had apparently asserted himself 
as the No. 2 cornerback opposite junior All-American Vernon Hargreaves, but the team opted to give Quincy Wilson the start against Kentucky. 
Tabor has contributed 10 tackles on de-
fense this season and had a 39-yard pick-six against East Carolina that McElwain con-sidered to be the turning point of the 31-24 win.
Wilson – who had the game-sealing in-
terception in the closing seconds against the Wildcats – will likely get the starting nod with Tabor scratched. Redshirt sophomores Nick Washington and Marcell Harris will also provide support in the defensive back-
ﬁ  eld in Tabor’s absence. 
McElwain has repeatedly stated the team 
wouldn’t dwell on who’s not able to play, 
choosing to focus on the next guy on the roster that can step up and contribute.
“Yeah, remember we were without Ver-
non, we were without (starting safety) Kea-nu (Neal). We’ve been without some other guys periodically,” McElwain said. “That’s next guy up. That’s just how it works.”
In Florida’s 10-9 come-from-behind vic-
tory against Tennessee last season, both Harris and Tabor had breakout performanc-es as freshmen.
With the Gators trailing 9-0 late in the 
third quarter, Tabor came up with a strip-
sack that gave Florida a short ﬁ  eld and the 
chance to put points on the board.
Harris then entered the game in favor of 
starting quarterback Jeff Driskel, who al-ready threw three interceptions throughout the contest, and led Florida on back-to-back scoring drives to seal the victory.
SUSPENSIONS,  from pg1Both played vital roles in last season’s game at Tennessee20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015
MOST UNDERCLASSMEN WILL 
PLAY IN THE BEDFORD CUP .
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
Life is all about tests, and this weekend the 
Gators have their first exam.
Half of the men’s team will be traveling to 
Fort Myers for the Bedford Cup while the other 
half will be traveling to Napa Valley, Califor-
nia, for the Napa Valley Tournament for the 
team’s season-opening tournaments. 
“It’s good to get back into the rhythm of things,” head coach Bryan Shelton said. “It was a quick turnaround for us. We only had a week to practice.”
The underclassmen, featuring freshmen 
McClain Kessler and Alfredo Perez, will play in the Bedford Cup today through Sunday. 
While Shelton said nerves are understand-
able when entering a collegiate tournament for the first time, he has one message for the fresh-men — control.
“It’s excitement filled with nerves as well 
and it’s learning how to deal with those,” Shel-ton said. “You learn how to take your time, how to control your breathing and how to get your focus in the right spot.”
During the preseason, Shelton said he wanted to see a better sense of mental tough-ness out of his players. 
Conditioning and working hard in the 
weight room will only make the team better, he said. 
“We’ve really worked 
hard on our fitness and 
strength building,” Shelton said. “If you’re not fit, if you can’t go the distance, it kind of limits the choices you have when you compete.”
Shelton looks at this 
weekend as a test for his team.
“At the end when the teacher gives you 
your test back with your grade on it, you see the problems that you did well on and the ones you didn’t do so well on,” Shelton said.“The big thing for us is getting better everyday.”
The women’s team will also be heading 
west to compete in the Las Vegas 50K in Las Vegas, Nevada, that runs Friday through Sun-
day. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist said he was im-
pressed with how hard the team worked in the 
preseason.
“We had a really good weekend,” 
Thornqvist said. “I think returning players displayed higher highs and higher lows in their play.”  
Continue reading this story online at www.
alligator.org/sports. UF men’s tennis opens season; women head to Las Vegas
Thornqvist
