We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 141 FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
By Emily Cochrane and Alyssa Fisher 
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
For many students, it began with what some now call 
the infamous checkbox.
It was an afterthought to the essays, the resumes and 
the personal information on the freshman application to 
the University of Florida in 2012 and 2013 — a box asking if the applying students were interested in having their applications considered for the Innovation Academy.
Many students, without much thought or research, 
clicked yes.
Innovation Academy has since added an essay com-
ponent asking why students want to become a part of IA and how it will inﬂ  uence their career paths to ensure students are committed to the structure and style of the program. But while initial acceptance came with relative ease, some students have found leaving IA to be a more 
difﬁ  cult process.
GETTING IN AND STAYING IN
David Nassau was born a Seminole. He never consid-
ered going to UF, but his mom convinced him to apply in 2012.
He checked the box.
After he was accepted into the ﬁ  rst class of the acad-
emy, he and his mom took a trip to visit the school and 
spoke to Admissions.
“What if it fails?” was a big question they had. But 
Nassau, now 20, connected with the idea of the program.
“And three years later, it’s still here,” the UF market-
ing junior said.
Sophomore becoming a mainstay 
in women’s golf lineup
UF begins play at the SEC Championships to-
day,  pg 14
Sophomore becoming a mainstay 
Smathers to host geocaching hunt
It’s part of Earth Month, pg 5.
Happy graduation: your college sex 
bucket list
Read Robyn Smith’s column, pg 7.ONLINE
Watch a video about a couple who runs
a rescue for 29 senior dogs out of their home in Melrose, Fla.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Hamaad Saber, a 21-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering junior, enrolled in the Innovation Academy, 
poses for a photo on Turlington Plaza. An IA ambassador, Saber is appreciative of the program and the opportuni-ties it’s given him.
Part 5 of 5Getting in and getting out
SEE IA, PAGE 8-9
CAMPUS
By Stella Heekin
Alligator Contributing Writer
When UF student Xavier Moss took a 
high school career-evaluation test and the 
result was medical illustrator, he was in-
trigued.
He is currently the only student at UF 
who has entered the biological illustration 
major in the interdisciplinary studies pro-
gram, and he said when he ﬁ  rst went to 
the advising ofﬁ  ce, they told him he was the ﬁ  rst student to do it in four years.
As a part of his coursework, he is in an 
advanced drawing class where the seniors 
host an exhibition. This year’s is on April 23 and 24 at the Ayers Technology Plaza 
at UF’s Innovation Square.
As a biological illustrator, Moss’ work 
for the exhibit will focus on parasitism with a mix of both animal and plant para-sites with the hope of educating people on 
the range of parasites that exist.
Moss’ father ﬁ  rst suggested he enter 
the pre-med track and become a doctor, 
but Moss had plans to enter the biological illustration major since the beginning of 
his college career.
“So it was just kind of a fusion between 
illustration, which I’ve always just loved Senior drawing exhibition 
showcases rare major at UFSHE DISCUSSED HER 
ACTING METHODS.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Sandibel Miron made sure to binge-watch 
“House of Cards” before actress Robin 
Wright came to UF.
Wright made fans’ days when she spoke 
in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Thursday night.  
Miron, a UF biology sophomore, said 
she admires Wright’s role as Claire Under-wood in the popular Netﬂ  ix series, “House of Cards.”
“She’s such a good role model,” Miron, 
20, said.
Wright is Accent Speaker’s Bureau’s last visitor for the semester, and she was paid $75,000.
During the moderated discussion with 
journalism professor Mike 
Foley, Wright talked about 
directing, her experienc-
es acting on “House of Cards,” her classic role of Buttercup in “The Princess 
Bride” and her dedication 
to bringing peace to the Congo.
Foley asked Wright why she turned down 
roles in “Jurassic Park,” “Batman Forever,” “The Firm.”
She said she didn’t see much substance in 
those characters.
“Give me something challenging,” she 
said. “Give me something that I’m afraid of.”Robin Wright talks on campus
SEE WRIGHT,  PAGE 4 SEE ILLUSTRATOR,  PAGE 4INSIDE 
INNOVATION
ACADEMY
Wright
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 141
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  64°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a 
troupe of real, rescued house cats that “purrform” acrobatic feats of agility: They roll on balls, bal-
ance on beams, ride skateboards 
and more. The grand finale is the only all-cat band known to exist — Tuna and the Rock Cats. They are “purrforming” at the Hippodrome State Theatre through Sunday. More informa-tion on the act can be found at circuscats.com.
GatorNights
Treat Yo Self during the last GatorNights of Spring 2015 to-day from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. Get your junk food cravings satisfied with free cupcakes, sno cones, Chick-fil-A and Midnight Munchies: Pizza. 
Check out two showings of 
“The Wedding Ringer” at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium and get free popcorn and soda. There's also a Pride Drag Show in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. It’s free with your Gator 1 Card.
Earth Day Celebration
Participate in the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Earth Day Exploration event Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., featuring outdoor activities in the adjacent UF Natural Area Teaching Laboratory and diverse specimens from the museum’s 
vast collections. Enjoy the three-
day plant sale beginning Friday, which is one of the museum’s largest plant sales of the year with more than 150 species available. Learn about butter-fly gardening, conservation and more. Food from High Springs Orchard and Bakery and The 
Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops will be 
available for purchase. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/earthday or call 352-846-2000.
Graduation Photos in the 
Butterfly RainforestCongratulations, graduates! As you emerge from college, take your graduation photos amid the beautiful backdrop of the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Butterfly Rainforest, a can’t-miss 
living exhibit featuring hundreds 
of free-flying butterflies and birds from around the world. UF stu-dents receive free admission with a valid Gator 1 Card. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflies.
GSCW is recruiting executive 
board membersThe mission of Gators for Sickle Cell Warriors (GSCW) is to help the public become more aware of the impacts of sickle cell disease and to push those affected to achieve more than they thought possible. Through social events, outreach and peer advising, we 
strive to create an educational 
yet welcoming and fun environ-ment for all. You do not need to be affected by sickle cell disease to join GSCW, but if you are or have been, this is an opportunity to support others, find a support system and stir a change in the Gainesville community. See the 
Facebook page for a link to the 
application. Questions? Contact us at scwarriorsuf@gmail.com.
Fulbright Days
The UF International Center will be hosting Fulbright Days during the month of April. Sponsored by the U.S. Department of State, the 
Fulbright program provides fund-
ing for students, scholars and faculty for graduate study and advance research in various re-gions of the world. The informa-tion session for coordinators and advisers will be Monday from 1 to 2 p.m. at the International 
Center in the Hub. There will 
be two information sessions Tuesday about the U.S. Students program, one at 9:35 a.m. at the International Center and one at 12:55 p.m. on the third floor of the Infirmary Building. The infor-mation session for faculty will be Thursday from 1 to 3 p.m. at the 
International Center. For more 
information, please visit: ufic.ufl.edu/Fulbright/index.html.
Finals Relaxation Week at 
Library WestOn Monday from 10 to 11 a.m. there will be coffee and doughnut holes on the second floor near 
the circulation desk. Tuesday 
from 3 to 4 p.m. Orion the ser-vice dog will be on the first, sec-ond and third floors. Wednesday from noon to 2 p.m. there will be chair massages in Room 212. Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m. there will be pizza and outdoor fun outside Library West.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Honoring History
Judge Stephan P . Mickle, the first African-American to get a bachelor’s degree from UF and the sec-
ond to graduate from UF’s Levin College of Law, smiles as he receives a plaque from George Daw-son, the law school’s interim dean, during a tree dedication ceremony Thursday. About 75 people attended the ceremony on the UF Law West Courtyard.
CAMPUS
By Moriah Gaynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
While some internships lead to 
suits, briefcases and conference rooms, Natasha Collazos ended up at the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Culture, the home of her internship and upcoming art ex-hibition.“From Mariposa to Mujerista: 
You are every woman and every woman is you” will highlight La-
tina empowerment through art 
from 6 to 8 p.m. today at the in-
stitute, commonly known as La 
Casita, at 1504 W. University Ave.
“More than anything, I just 
want to be able to educate every-one that comes in,” said Collazos, a UF women studies senior.
Collazos’ exhibition will have 
two main parts: an art show dis-
playing the works of at least six 
local, nonlocal and historical Lati-
na artists and an area for guests to 
create his or her own piece of art.
“What I want to incorporate 
through everything, out of all of this, is for people to have ac-knowledgement in the power of not only Latina artists, but Latina women,” Collazos, 22, said.  
Collazos was the driving force 
of this event, but she said she re-
ceived help from the artists, the 
ambassadors at La Casita and Gisselle Bermudes, a La Casita 
ambassador and public relations 
director for the show.Bermudes, 21, said that after 
focusing on Hispanic Heritage Month last year, she wanted to 
branch out and learn more about 
Latina empowerment this year.
“This is a project I’ve been 
wanting to work on for a long time,” said Bermudes, a UF soci-
ology and Latin American studies 
senior. UF student’s art exhibit to explore Latina empowerment 
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a man 
early Thursday after he reportedly 
stabbed and slit the throat of another 
man over a can of beer at Dignity Vil-
lage.
Shortly before 1 a.m., Donnie Guy 
Mitchell, 35, began ar-
guing with a man who 
didn’t give him a beer, according to a police re-port. Witnesses told po-lice that Mitchell hit the 
man in the head with 
a beer can and then slit the man’s throat.
He proceeded to stab the man in 
the face, neck and torso before run-ning away, according to the report. The man survived.
Police later found Mitchell with 
bloody hands and a bloody leg.
The man was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital, GPD spokesman Of-ficer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. He is currently in stable condition.
Officers arrested Mitchell on one 
charge of attempted murder. Police took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remained as of press time 
in lieu of a $500,000 bond.
The day before at Dignity Village, 
Gainesville Police arrested another man after he reportedly swung a ma-
chete at a crowd of people and cut 
one of them.
At about 5 p.m., 
Ronald Packer, 51, began arguing with a 
man over money, ac-cording to a police re-port.
He then pulled out a machete and 
began to swing it at the crowd, ac-cording to the report. When a second man tried to step in, Packer swung the machete and hit him in the leg, 
giving the man minor cuts.
Police arrested Packer on one 
charge of aggravated battery. Officers 
took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remained as of press time 
in lieu of a $3,000 bond.Police called to Dignity 
Village for two fights
CRIME4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015to draw, and then science,” the 22-year-old said, 
“and I like science but hate chemistry.”
Moss has taken classes that most students 
on the pre-med track must take early on, but he took classes that typically would be electives for pre-med students as his core classwork.
These include courses in avian and spider bi-
ology and zoology.
Alyssa Hendricks, a UF art senior specializing 
in drawing, is also showcasing her work in the exhibit. 
It’s comprised of geometric shapes worked 
into classical illustrations of nature to describe how the digital age is tearing away the organic image of nature and animals.
“(Drawing is) a major that’s usually not 
sought after just because people think they’re not going to make money or whatever,” Hen-dricks said, “but I’d rather enjoy what I do than make a lot of money and be miserable.”For Moss, he said students looking into the 
biological illustration major should start early 
because of the upper-division courses students 
need to take as early as sophomore year.
“Just go to the IDS office and ask them what-
ever questions you have about it and go from there,” Moss said.
Looking back on his experience in the major 
and with interdisciplinary studies, Moss said he has enjoyed seeing both right-brained and left-
brained thinkers and learners.
“I think just kind of like, being between lib-
eral arts and school of arts,” he said, “you kind 
of just meet a very interesting mix of people.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is an illustration made by Xavier Moss, 22, the only student at UF 
majoring in biological illustration. 
By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
UF’s goals have been made a priority for 
a new university task force.
The force’s creation was announced 
Thursday after members met for their first 
meeting Wednesday afternoon. There are 
16 members plus the UF executive chief of 
staff, Winfred Phillips, who will serve as the chairman.
It consists of professors and deans as 
well as current Student Body President Cory Yeffet and incoming Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines.
The task force will gather information through meetings and forums to set the university’s goals and priorities for the 
next five to 10 years. Members are ex-
pected to present a final report to the UF Board of Trustees that will be available to the campus community.
“The new president wants a vision for 
where he sees the university headed,” said Harry Klee, a professor in the Horticultural Sciences Department and member of the task force. “And, of course, it’s tied to this 
preeminence initiative that’s been ongo-
ing.” 
The task force was UF President Kent 
Fuchs’ idea, Klee said.
The committee will address all aspects 
of the university, he said, from student life and education to faculty achievements and the athletic association.
Members were chosen from various col-
leges and will not represent their colleges individually. 
Rather, they will open discussions 
about how to help UF, said Robert Gilbert, a professor in the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences and another member of 
the committee.“(The task force will look at) how can 
we maintain and grow our excellence over 
time, both in terms of faculty and also the students that we recruit and the alumni that graduate,” Gilbert said.
The next meeting will be around early 
May, Klee said. He said he believes Fuchs 
would like to see a report in the Fall.
Yeffet said he will stay involved in the 
task force although he is graduating.
During the first meeting, both Fuchs 
and Phillips identified students as the core of the university and one of the commit-
tee’s key focuses, Yeffet said.
“It was very cool to hear and very ex-
citing to hear that their expectation for involving students in the process is very high,” he said, “and that they’re hoping students will be involved in the process 
every step of the way.”New goal-setting task force to examine, plan UF’s direction
ILLUSTRATOR,  from pg1Another UF student will be presenting her artwork at the showHannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Robin Wright, the actress who plays Claire on “House of Cards” and who played Jenny in “Forrest Gump, ” speaks 
at an Accent Speaker’s Bureau event at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday. She said she initially turned down “House of Cards” because 
it was a television series, and she said she felt it would be restric-
tive. The show’s executive producer, David Fincher, changed 
her mind when he told her the show would be streamed, which 
would give her the opportunity to develop her character.
Wright said she didn’t study politicians to prepare for the 
role of Claire. Instead, she studied how bald eagles interacted 
with their prey.
“Claire was so much more an animal to me,” she said.
Wright said she directed a couple of episodes while filming 
“House of Cards,” and she said she actually preferred directing over acting.
“It’s a very isolated experience, even though you are acting 
and reacting with others,” she said. “(With) directing, you’re working with every single department.”
Foley told Wright that Claire is often described as ruthless 
and conniving, and he asked if she agreed.
She didn’t.Wright described Claire as industrial, convicted and effi-
cient, an answer that spurred laughter from the audience.
A Q&A followed the discussion.
Many students asked what to expect in season four of 
“House of Cards.” Wright smiled and said they would just have 
to wait.WRIGHT,  from pg1She wouldn’t talk 
about HOC season 4It was President Kent Fuchs’ idea
“(Drawing is) a major that’s usually not 
sought after just because people think they’re 
not going to make money or whatever, but 
I’d rather enjoy what I do than make a lot of 
money and be miserable.”
Alyssa Hendricks
UF art senior“The new president wants a vision 
for where he sees the university 
headed, and, of course, it’s tied to this 
preeminence initiative that’s been 
ongoing.” 
Harry Klee
professor and task force memberFRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
HeForShe
Whitney Hall, a 19-year-old UF biology freshman, holds a sign and 
marches on Turlington Plaza on Thursday with other members of the UF chapter of HeForShe, which aims to end gender inequality and support survivors of sexual assault. “How I dress does not mean yes, ” Hall chanted. “Ask me what I’m asking for!”
By Paige Levin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nature will go virtual Saturday 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History’s Earth Day celebration.
Every hour from 11:30 a.m. un-
til 2:30 p.m., a representative from 
the George A. Smathers Map and 
Imagery Library will lead visitors on a treasure hunt at UF’s Cultural Plaza.
Visitors will be given GPS de-
vices and the opportunity to see Gainesville through a new perspec-tive with geocaching. Geocaching is a worldwide outdoor adventure 
where participants use a GPS to un-
cover hidden containers.
“It’s a modern-day treasure 
hunt,” museum educator Tiffany Ireland said. “It’s pretty amazing.”
Eric Schudiske, geocaching.com 
public relations and social media manager, said community mem-bers hide a container with random 
items at precise coordinates and 
then challenge people to ﬁ  nd it through the Geocaching app.
Geocaching started 15 years 
ago and quickly spread around the world, he said. There are 2.6 mil-lion caches hidden in more than 185 countries, and Florida is one of the top ﬁ  ve states for geocaching with more than 15,000 caches hid-den throughout the state.
“It’s a digital-age version of 
hide-and-seek,” Schudiske said.
People who hide caches must 
live close enough to the hiding spot to maintain them, he said. A group of volunteers in the community verify the location of the cache, and then it is posted online at geocach-ing.com with coordinates, a de-
scription and level of difﬁ  culty.
Each geocache is rated by difﬁ  -
culty on a 1-5 scale. Beginner cach-
es are easier to ﬁ  nd, and the terrain is easier to conquer, he said.
“So much of the joy is the jour-
ney to discover it,” Schudiske said.
Inside the container, if it’s large 
enough, there will at least be a log-
book to sign, he said. Large caches 
contain prizes.
Ireland said the geocaching 
walks at the Earth Day celebration will be led by the UF Map and Im-agery Library, which is located in Smathers Library.The library houses 11 GPS devic-
es available to students and faculty 
for checkout. In addition to other 
caches hidden in the area, the mu-seum has three educational Earth caches for participants to ﬁ  nd.
Gaby Quevedo, a 21-year-old 
economics junior, said she has found Mardi Gras beads, Koozies, 
a poem and stickers while geocach-
ing in Gainesville.
“Although the humidity and 
mosquitoes were relentless, it was so much fun, and it felt pretty in-tense venturing into random cor-ners off the path to ﬁ  nd the cache,” Quevedo said.
Schudiske said geocaching 
pushes people to get outside and explore while connecting as a glob-al society.
“In today’s society, a lot of peo-
ple go from their garage to parking garage at work, and that’s their day,” he said. “Geocaching gives people a reason to get outside and discover their town in a new way.”Smathers to host geocaching hunt
Anyone with information or who may know the man’s identity is asked to call 
GPD at 352-955-1818 or text keyword GPDFL plus your tip to 274637 (CRIMES). 
Those who wish to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at 352-372-STOP (7867).It’s part of Earth Month
“It’s a digital-age version of hide-
and-seek.”
Eric Schudiske
public relations and social media 
manager, geocaching.com
Prowler Alert: Here’s what to look out for
Gainesville Police is investigating an incident of prowling and exposure 
of sexual organs that occurred Thursday at about 7:30 a.m. The victim told police she saw a man looking in the window of her apartment.
 The man is described as a black male in his 50s with a beard.  
 He was wearing gray/blue plaid jeans and a red T-shirt and left the 
area westbound on Southwest Fifth Avenue.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOROur take on 
Innovation Academy
In case you missed it, we published a ﬁ  ve-part series this week 
exploring UF’s Innovation Academy, a program currently in its third year. Basically, students enrolled in the program go to school for the Spring and Summer semesters, as opposed to the traditional Fall and Spring. After hearing from several 
students who had both positive and negative things to say, we decided to look into ﬁ  ve ways IA students are affected by the program: campus involvement, academics, pre-professional op-portunities, ﬁ  nances and getting in and getting out.
Our determination: The program has its merits, but it’s clearly 
ﬂ  awed. We’ve found obvious inconsistencies in how IA describes itself and its expectations — communication gulfs between stu-dents and administration, minimal accommodation for the missed opportunities students encounter with the Spring-Summer aca-
demic calendar and, most objectionably, a general unwillingness 
from IA ofﬁ  cials and some students to discuss these issues.
Earlier in the week, we reported in our academics section that 
IA students were told they were welcome to take classes in the Fall, so long as they took them online. But Gary McGill, director of the Fisher School of Accounting, said his staff was told by the IA administration they should recommend students stick strictly to the Spring-Summer calendar. This is just one example of the inconsistencies present in the program — inconsistencies we had 
to sift through on behalf of an administration that just couldn’t be 
bothered to address these issues on its own.
We’ve been told over and over again by advocates for the 
program that our series wouldn’t add to the conversation because IA ofﬁ  cials are already aware of these issues and they’re not all easy to ﬁ  x. But the very next day, McGill and IA Director Jeff Citty clariﬁ  ed the problem. The student who brought attention to this issue even said herself in the IA Facebook group: “... this problem would not have been ﬁ  xed without it (the article).”
In fact, a few students posted in the Facebook group to share 
stories of their own. Some of the posts were promptly deleted by the group administrator — a UF IA student — including one ask-ing why he was deleting the posts. When asked about the posts, the administrator said he remembers deleting one because he considered it offensive but does not remember taking down the others. One student took it into his own hands and created a new IA Facebook group. He wrote, “Started a new group … so we can actually talk about things relevant to IA, not have things deleted, 
and not just hear how everythings [sic] hunky dorey,” according 
to a screenshot of the Facebook post before it was deleted.
This is the mindset that seems to exist among IA ofﬁ  cials and 
its student advocates — ignoring issues and pointing ﬁ  ngers at those trying to reveal said issues. When asked about confusion among students in the program, Citty told a reporter he placed fault on “traditional” students for misinforming those in IA.
Overall, we believe the IA program has potential, especially 
for budding entrepreneurs and business students. IA is still in 
its infancy, but many students are uncomfortable with the ex-
perimental feel. One student described the class as IA’s “guinea pigs.” We understand it’s a young program, but students’ educa-tions shouldn’t be triﬂ  ed with.
In order to live up to this potential, though, IA needs to change. 
It needs to be honest about its shortcomings. Our recommenda-tion: IA is subjective to the experiences of individual students. If you have a genuine interest in business or entrepreneurship, and you’re conﬁ  dent that’s what you’d like to do, IA seems like 
it would be a promising opportunity, especially because so many 
business classes are offered online, and IA students can take only online classes in the Fall — their equivalent of Summer Break.
IA could affect hundreds of students’ lives for the better — in-
deed, it already has. But for the program to be its best, it must be honest with its students and itself.Millennials must engage in 2016 election season
With more than a year and a half until 
Election Day 2016, presidential can-didates are announcing their intent to run for the White House. Thus begins silly season. Earlier this week, pundits 
analyzed, criticized and dissected Hillary Clinton’s and Marco Rubio’s campaign logos because po-litical pundits are now experts in graphic design. What the American people can’t afford is yet an-other presidential election bogged down in de-bates over the minutiae and plagued by typical mudslinging.
Of course, this is exactly what we’re going to get, and 
young people should ﬁ  ght back.
Millennials are poised to become the largest generation 
currently living sometime this year — surpassing the baby 
boomers — and it’s time we start asking our leaders the 
tough questions about the future. Whether you support Clin-ton, Rubio or, for some reason, Ben Carson, ask yourself who has the brightest, boldest vision for the future.
For Republicans, it can’t simply be about repealing Barack 
Obama’s presidency. That would be costly and prevent prog-ress on the major issues our nation faces. Both sides agree economic inequality is a serious issue, and without chang-es, the erosion of the middle class will continue unabated, 
which could lead to severe economic strife.
Despite our governor’s decree that the phrase “climate 
change” is verboten, the changing climate is the likely cause 
of severe and devastating droughts in California, responsible for the ﬂ  ooding in Miami and perhaps why severe weather outbreaks are more severe and frequent. Gov. Rick Scott may want to put the kibosh on climate reality, but the next presi-dent cannot ignore the devastating consequences to commu-nities in various parts of the country.
Additionally, the next president must tackle runaway 
student-loan debt, which has hamstrung much of our gen-eration, preventing us from affording homes, cars and other staples of the middle class. Are we looking for a bailout? Our names do not begin or end with “bank,” so it’s unlikely we’ll see much relief. A restructuring of the system is past due.Overall, the next president must restore con-
ﬁ  dence and trust in the American institutions whose reputations are crumbling before our eyes. We no longer trust our political institutions to compromise or work together for the beneﬁ  t of 
our nation. Each week we learn of another un-
conscionable tragedy involving the police and American citizens. We continue to learn about the Secret Service’s ineptitude. Our public education system faces enormous challenges educating the next generation, and, without investment, our na-
tion’s infrastructure continues to crumble. Following court decisions like Citizens United, our political system is now sold to the highest bidder while voters are little more than 
an afterthought. 
In today’s America, with enough money, anyone can buy 
the votes necessary to win.
Can the next president solve all the challenges we face? 
Absolutely not. However, he or she can set the stage to re-
store the American people’s trust in the institutions that guid-ed us from a largely agrarian state into the economic pow-erhouse that dominated the 20th century. Restore trust and conﬁ  dence and, together, we can ﬁ  nally move forward and 
make the rest of the 21st century another American century.
Obama’s accomplishments in ofﬁ  ce are signiﬁ  cant, but 
the president faced numerous challenges when he entered 
ofﬁ  ce, many of which will go unresolved when he exits the White House in a little less than two years. It’s up to the next president to keep the country on a path moving forward. That direction may be liberal or conservative, but it must undoubtedly be forward, not backward. We simply cannot afford four or eight years of continued polarization among 
political elites while millions of people watch as helpless 
spectators in America’s self-inﬂ  icted decline.
Young people cannot watch from the sidelines in 2016. 
We must be active and involved and demand that those seeking the nation’s highest ofﬁ  ce respect and respond to the voices of we, the people.
Joel Mendelson is a UF graduate student in political cam-
paigning. His column appears on Fridays. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
To Whom It May Concern:
I am a current Innovation Academy sophomore on a 
pre-veterinarian track, and I must tell you my perspective 
on what is really happening within IA. The perspective 
you have been broadcasting is that of how a minority of the students in the program really feel. In fact, you would have known this had you taken the time to interview a 
third cohort IA student. This third cohort actually did a lot 
more than just check a little gray box. They wrote essays as to why they speciﬁ  cally wanted to be in this program over the general admission.
Believe it or not, there are actually many more pros 
than cons to IA. First of all, the fact that we start in Spring semester allows the university to admit more students per year and keeps the school running year-round. 
Second, we get priority registration for all of our classes, 
so getting the classes you need is not a problem at all. We even get our own personal advisers who take an interest in us. 
Personally, I enjoy having my Fall semester off. I get to 
intern longer, focus on my research, get all of my clinical 
hours logged for veterinary admissions in a timely fashion, 
study for the graduate school entrance exam and will be able to apply to veterinary school, all without it interfering with a heavy course load of classes at the same time. 
Third, IA is home to numerous campuswide leaders such 
as Sen. Hammaad Saber, Entrepreneurship Club President David Nassau, Hispanic Student Association President Es-tevan Torres, Black Student Union Treasurer-elect Ashley Aristide and Public Relations Student Society of America 
Vice President-elect Natalia Tamayo — just to name a few 
of the many talented leaders who have come out of IA. These are people who have and will continue to change and shape the campus culture. 
Lastly, last time I checked, innovation was what em-
ployers were looking for and what the Gainesville start-up community has been looking for. That’s part of the whole reason UF has invested so much in the Innovation Square and Inﬁ  nity Hall projects.
IA is more than just a Living Learning Community. It’s 
a family. We all support each other and push each other to become the best people we can be. It’s something to be proud of. It’s not a disease, and we are at the forefront of 
what truly distinguishes UF from every other school in the 
nation. IA has come a very long way in a short amount of time, and I applaud the administration for continuously improving the lives of the students for more than two years now.
Meredith Adams 
UF Innovation Academy student
It’s ﬁ  nally here — the last real Friday of the se-mester. Your last Friday to skip classes before you head off to a beach somewhere, to more 
classrooms for Summer C, or even worse — 
to the real world.
As much as it pains me to point out: Yes, 
some of you do have to graduate. And judging 
by how much I am trying to slow down the next 
year until my graduation, I can only assume you’re trying to slow down the next few weeks.
I realized that with just 52 or so weeks until my gradu-
ation, there are so many things I still need to do. I mean, I 
still haven’t done a keg stand or gone on a road trip.
Not to mention all of the sexual things that 13-year-old 
me would be bummed about if college-graduate me never 
did them — read: threesome.
So without further ado, your college sex bucket list:  We’ll start with something simple. If you haven’t al-
ready, hook up sober. This seems really dumb, but hear 
me out. Undoubtedly, a lot of people engage in completely sober hookups most, if not all, of the time. And that’s great!
But if you’re stuck in the routine of going to the bars, 
getting drunk and bringing someone home, you’re really missing out. Learn how to sleep with someone without the help of 50 cent wells. Plus, whiskey dick isn’t a thing when 
you’re sober.
Go skinny-dipping. OK, this isn’t really that sexual — 
unless it turns into something more. But, do as much I’m-
doing-stuff-naked-just-because-I-can stuff before you join the real world.
Learn how to be comfortable in your own skin and just 
your own skin. So go skinny-dipping, run that naked lap because you suck at beer pong, streak through Turlington Plaza. Where else after graduation are you going to have an 
opportunity to be so naked with such little chance of get-
ting caught? Consequences for nakedness are a lot worse after college, so live it up while you can.
On a related note, if you’re going to be naked in pub-
lic, at least have sex. So hook up some place ridiculous. 
You’ve gone to this university for long enough that you 
should christen it yourself. 
Get it on in a classroom, at a rock quarry or on top of the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center. You have the rest of your life 
for beds, and this will give you a good story to hide from 
your kids when you bring them back to UF for their own college experience.Hook up with someone totally outside of 
your “type.” Like them tall, dark and hand-some? Great. But that doesn’t mean you should 
limit yourself in terms of who you date or who 
you sleep with. At the very least, hooking up with someone you wouldn’t normally go for can alert you to what you really want, especially in 
terms of personality. In the process, you might 
even like it and learn something about how ﬂ  uid sexuality is.
Similarly, try something you normally wouldn’t. 
You’ll never have the, “Oh, it was just back in my wild col-
lege days” excuse again. So go visit a sex shop at 2 a.m. Try 
that weird position that you’ll probably pull a muscle from doing. Tie someone up. It’s cool. You’re young. Inhibitions are for old people.
If you haven’t already — and, oh my gosh, if you 
haven’t, what are you waiting for? — ﬁ  nd a contraceptive method that works well for you. Sexually transmitted in-fections are real, y’all, and they don’t seem pleasant. So be-
fore your adult life starts, get in the habit of using condoms 
to prevent STIs or another method to prevent pregnancy.
It’s the perfect time while many of you are still on your 
parent’s health insurance plan to ﬁ  gure out what works for you, like the pill or an intrauterine device. And while you’re at it, get tested, too.
For most of you, whether this is the end of your ﬁ  rst 
year or the beginning of your ﬁ  fth lap around, try some of these or add some stuff to your own list — read: three-somes.
As for you graduating seniors — you may not have a lot 
of time left, but who really studies on reading days any-way? 
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.Happy graduation: your college sex bucket listColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
“You have the rest of your life for 
beds, and this will give you a good 
story to hide from your kids when 
you bring them back to UF for their 
own college experience.”FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Hannah Westergaard, a 20-year-old UF plant science junior enrolled in IA, poses for a 
photo near McCarty Hall. Westergaard has dropped the innovation minor and is having difficulties aligning her major’s classes with the Spring-Summer schedule.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sarim Ahmed, a 19-year-old UF marketing sophomore enrolled in IA, poses for a pho-to underneath the arches near Marston Science Library. Despite having his petition to leave IA denied, Ahmed is determined to enjoy the rest of his college career.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Li Stalder, a 19-year-old UF journalism sophomore enrolled in IA, poses for a photo in the Weimer Hall Atrium. After getting accepted to UF for the Summer B semester in 2013, Stalder asked to join IA and is happy with her decision.
Nassau, often seen as one of 
the faces of IA, said he saw a lot of 
negativity in the program’s early 
days. He saw that begin to change 
during the second IA course, Cre-ativity Practicum, where students are tasked to come up with ideas 
for a helpful product and present 
a prototype at an end-of-semester showcase.
“The quality was high,” he 
said of his class’ showcase. “We 
felt proud being in IA. It was so 
positive and so overwhelming. So much negativity had been thrown around.”
Students know more about 
IA now, Nassau said, so they’re more positive coming in.  
Li Stalder was one of those stu-
dents. She was accepted to UF for 
Summer B 2013, but she needed 
to defer enrollment. She looked to her Tampa college prepara-tory school Academy of the Holy Names college counselor, Kerry 
Keegan, who shared her excite-
ment over IA, an “up-and-com-ing” program.
Stalder called Admissions and 
asked to be enrolled.
“I was one of the few people 
who didn’t check the box,” the 
19-year-old UF journalism sopho-more said.
Keegan, the counselor, educat-
ed herself on IA and now always 
mentions the option when she talks about UF. She has had sev-eral students go on to join since 
it began.
“It really is more of a what 
an honors program should be,” 
Keegan said. “It’s a great way to attend Florida; it’s more person-
al.”
Stalder said she isn’t affected 
by IA’s Spring-Summer schedule. 
She said she hasn’t pursued in-
ternships yet because she’s still 
exploring the industry and the various opportunities within it.
She stayed in Gainesville in 
the Fall and found a job she en-
joys at Hyperlynx Media, a digital 
marketing agency specializing in search engine optimization.
With the skills she’s learned 
in IA, Stalder has been look-ing into internships with media startups like Spoon University, a college-focused online food guide, which she contributes to. 
She thinks she’ll be a strong can-
didate because of her experience with teamwork and collaboration, creativity and an entrepreneurial 
mindset.
“Personally, I’m not going to 
go out and start my own busi-
ness,” she said. “But there are skills I’ve improved on.”
NEW APPLICATION PROCESSBeginning with students who 
applied to UF this past Fall, stu-
dents must now clarify interest 
in either traditional enrollment or IA enrollment five times to avoid confusion.
Students interested in IA must 
also write an essay about why they are interested in becoming an IA student and how it will af-fect their career growth, as well 
as confirm they cannot leave IA 
to go to the traditional Fall-Spring schedule.UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email that as a result, 
enrollment dropped from 300 stu-
dents in Spring 2013 and 347 stu-dents in Spring 2014 to 191 stu-dents this Spring.  
But the students who applied 
before the change must still grap-ple with the consequences of ad-mittance to a program they didn’t fully understand.
GETTING OUTIn order for students to leave 
IA, there is really only one option: 
petitioning.
Barring any extenuating cir-
cumstances, IA students are not 
allowed to transfer into the tradi-tional schedule at UF if they wish 
to maintain a major that is offered 
in the IA program, IA Director Jeff Citty said.
IA student Hannah Wester-
gaard is on the fence about chang-ing her major for that reason.
The plant science junior only 
IA,  from pg1While some students value IA, those who want out face hurdleswanted to drop the innovation minor to begin with. She was already encountering schedul-
ing conflicts because her major’s 
classes are primarily during Fall and Spring, and she had to pe-tition to take the Fall classes in 
person.
“You have to go out into the 
field,” Westergaard, 20, said. 
“You need to smell the plants, work with the plants. You can’t 
do that stuff online.”
Dropping the minor would 
help alleviate that strain, she 
thought at the time, because she 
didn’t view the classes as valu-
able to her area of study. Advis-ers allowed her to drop the minor, she said, but she’s still on the Spring-Summer schedule.
The only way she can leave IA 
is by dropping her plant science major and switching to horticul-tural science, a major not offered 
within IA, she said.
“I might have to change my 
major, but I won’t be in the major 
that I want to be in,” Westergaard said.For Lauren Tenton, petitioning 
to drop the IA minor was the first step toward applying for a major 
outside the program. But her pe-
tition wasn’t successful, and she left UF because of it.
When she first entered IA as a 
freshman in the College of Pub-lic Health and Health Professions in Spring 2014, Tenton was ex-cited by the concept behind the program. But when it was deter-
mined that the college  was no 
longer compatible with the acad-emy’s schedule, she was faced with two options: reapply to keep 
her major after sophomore year 
and leave IA, or change her major and stay in IA.
She decided to stay in the col-
lege and, in the meantime, drop 
the minor to save time and mon-
ey.
But when she spoke with Citty, 
she said he questioned the wis-
dom of leaving.
“He told me ‘You wanting to 
leave the program so early is like 
getting to the gates of Disney World and deciding not to go in,’” she remembered.
Citty confirmed his conversa-
tion with Tenton and said it was 
an effort to help her understand 
she hadn’t had the full IA experi-ence yet.
“It was curious to me how she 
could evaluate so quickly that this wasn’t valuable,” he said.
Tenton, now 20, petitioned to 
drop the minor soon after their conversation. But her petition was denied, and she decided to leave UF during the Summer be-cause of financial strain and is-
sues with the academy.
Now a sophomore at Miami-
Dade Community College study-
ing nursing, she will transfer to 
the University of Central Florida 
this Fall. She said there was a chance she would have stayed at UF if she hadn’t been in IA.
“I would’ve had a better time, 
better support,” Tenton said. “I wouldn’t be worrying about my program. I would be working to-ward what I want to do.”
Sarim Ahmed, a marketing 
sophomore, had a similar expe-rience attempting to leave the program. After struggling with fi-nancial and family complications, 
Ahmed, 19, petitioned in Febru-
ary to switch to the traditional Fall-Spring schedule. But due primarily to his unwillingness 
to change to a major outside the 
program, Ahmed’s petition was denied, he said.
But Ahmed said he is OK with 
remaining in the program and making the most of his remaining time at UF. As a Florida Cicerone, he still recommends for some stu-
dents to look into IA.
“The thing that I like to tell 
people is, Innovation Academy 
is a program that if you are truly 
passionate about what the pro-
gram stands for, you should go for it,” he said. “If you’re not too sure, or your major isn’t offered, it’s reconsideration time.”
Three years in, Innovation 
Academy is still relatively young. With most students in the first class expected to graduate next 
summer, program administrators 
are working to expand to include more majors and work through the kinks of a Spring-Summer schedule.
“The program can get better 
in every way essentially because it’s growing in every way,” said Hammaad Saber, a 21-year-old 
industrial and systems engineer-
ing junior in IA. “As time goes on, every aspect of the Innovation Academy is going to continue to grow.”
“I would’ve had a 
better time, better 
support. I wouldn’t 
be worrying about 
my program. I 
would be working 
toward what I 
want to do.”
Lauren T enton
former IA student“It really is more 
of a what an 
honors program 
should be. It’s 
a great way to 
attend Florida; it’s 
more personal.”
Kerry Keegan
counselor, Academy of the Holy 
Names
The IA series has created discus-
sion among the UF community, some 
of which resulted in change.
Gary McGill, director of the Fisher 
School of Accounting, said his staff was told by the IA administration they should recommend students stick strictly to the Spring-Summer calendar. But the next day, McGill and IA Direc-
tor Jeff Citty spoke and clarified the 
problem. McGill specifically requested documentation to establish the correct procedures.
It also resulted in some clarifica-
tions. The latest version of the Student Organization Handbook was updated in 2013. However, the university regu-lations regarding registered student 
organization officer eligibility were up-
dated in March 2014 to reflect, in part, the inclusion of Innovation Academy students, wrote Kerrie Montgomery, associate director of the Department 
of Student Activities and Involvement, 
in an email.
The information in the handbook is 
not actually incorrect but has not been 
updated to include further interpreta-
tion of the full-time enrollment issue as it relates specifically to IA students, she said.
It reads: “Undergraduate students 
must be registered for twelve (12) credits in the Fall and Spring semesters (Spring and Summer semesters for Inno-vation Academy students), have a mini-
mum 2.5 cumulative academic average 
and cannot have an academic warning or be on academic probation. If the stu-dent officer is actively representing the organization during a semester or term, 
the officer must be a registered student 
during that semester or term. ”Montgomery said if IA students are 
elected to executive positions at the end of Spring semester, their terms in office would likely run through the 
Summer, Fall and following Spring se-
mester. A student would need to be enrolled full time for Summer and the following Spring, but could remain in office during the Fall as long as he or 
she is registered for at least one credit.
“IA students are allowed to enroll in 
online courses for their ‘off’ semester, and are only prevented from register-
ing for classes on campus during that semester, ” Montgomery said. “This would maintain their eligibility for the 
elected position according to the Regu-
lation. ”
When asked, Citty said he felt a large 
amount of the general confusion sur-rounding IA came from traditional stu-dents misunderstanding IA and telling 
IA students incorrect information.
“The traditional students don’t 
know enough about the program, ” he 
said. “Students talk from their per-spective, their point of view. And 
if they’re not part of something 
or it’s something different, they tend not to have accurate infor-mation and will only tell you 
their standpoint. ” •   •   •
•   •   •“Students talk from their 
perspective, their point of view. And 
if they’re not part of something or 
it’s something different, they tend 
not to have accurate information 
and will only tell you their 
standpoint.”
Jeff Citty
IA DirectorTying up loose endsFRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
$475/mo May 1st Furn'ed Pvt masterBR incl utils, WiFi, W/D, TV. Quiet w/ 3 males in UF Midtown, 13th/8th area easy Bus, Bike routes. ROOM@COX.NET / ph(352) 338-1113    4-17-15-2-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-12-15-32-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/
mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family 
Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For 
further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-
24-2Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!
Located at Campus Edge across the street 
from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-
ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
Get your Gator on!
Gold & silver gator lapel pins
$5 each or $30 per dozen
IFAS Extension Bookstore
www.ifasbooks.com/352-392-1764
4-22-15-5-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 ComputersFRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11  
Public Auction
Domital Corp.April 21st at 10am8850 NW 18th Ter.Doral, FL 33172Telecomm Infrastructure Products/Components, High-capacity Broadband Equip., Construction Materials, Vehicles, Trailers, Forklift, Warehouse Items, Office Furniture/Equip. & more!Www.moeckerauctions.com Preview: 04/20 • 10am-3pm15%-18%BP(800) 840-BIDSSubj to confirm. AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric RubinX    4-17-1-10
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s 
lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 4-17-14-73-13 www.Skinnteaglobal.com
Learn how to lose 5 lbs in 5 days with our fat 
burning tea. Income opportunity available. 
352-275-8561    4-22-6-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-
14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positions
On-job training, Age:18+
352-466-3803
Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourly
Seasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid-ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Hiring for Summer
Apply Mon-Fri 9am-8pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10/hr + Incentive + Paid Training
Bilingual SPANISH Speakers Needed
http://www.bebr.ufl.edu/survey/hiring
4-17-15-6-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
4-22-15-9-14
Hiring Vet Techs. Animal experience pre-
ferred. Salary commensurate with abili-ties, full-time benefit pkg included. Apply at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W. 
Newberry Rd, Newberry.    4-20-15-5-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time 
(Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + 
benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke 
in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   
4-22-15-8-14
Hiring Vet Techs. Animal experience pre-
ferred. Salary commensurate with abili-ties, full-time benefit pkg included. Apply at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W. Newberry Rd, Newberry.    4-20-15-5-14
Perform all aspects of property leasing, in-cluding but not limited to, lease of property, resident verification, file completion, answer-ing phones, customer satisfaction, preparing newsletter, assist in planning resident func-tions. Perform all tasks in a timely manner. To obtain a complete job description, visit our website at www.emmergroup.com/about-us/careers.   4-21-15-5-14
Timber Ridge Camp of High View, WV is seeking an Aquatics director for the summer of 2015. Candidate must be or able to obtain lifeguard and WSI prior to Camp. Position runs June 11-Aug 8th. Travel and Room and Board Provided. Please apply online at www.trcamps.com or call 410-833-4080    4-20-15-4-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 
50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. 
EOE    4-17-1-14
Hiring Reporters, Content
Writers and Copy Editors in
Jacksonville, write on digital/
email mktg at MarketingSherpa 
Apply at meclabs.com/careers
5-12-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    4-17-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! Receive Hands On Training And National Certifications Operating Bulldozers, Backhoes & Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. Veteran Benefits Eligible! 1-877-494-1171    4-17-1-14
B.A.H. Express hiring Regional-OTR Class A drivers. Great pay and benefits, paid vaca-tion and holidays. Home weekly. 12 months experience. Apply at www.bahexpress.com. 800-852-6641 ext. 111    4-17-1-14
CLASS A DRIVERS WANTED
HOME EVERY WEEKEND
DEDICATED SOUTHEAST RUNS
WALK AWAY LEASE PURCHASENO MONEY DOWN!OR
PAID EVERY MILE PLUS BENEFITS
WWW.SHELTONTRUCKING.COM
800-877-3201    4-17-1-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training 
for career opportunities in aviation, automo-
tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid 
for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-4006   4-17-1-15Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. Www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    4-17-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858     4-17-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    4-17-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who 
cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line 
for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    4-17-
1-16Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
'IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Open House
Want to work for alligatorSports?
Come to our open house today from2-5 p.m. We're located at 1105 W. University Ave.Shannon Gilroy and the UF lacrosse team closes out its regular season with a road match against UConn at noon Saturday in Storrs, Connecticut.By Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
Regardless of the location, mov-
ing to a different country at a young 
age is a life-changing experience.
For sophomore Karolina Vlcko-
va, the transition of becoming a Di-vision I athlete in a foreign country has greatly benefited her.
That has especially this season, 
as she has emerged as one of the top golfers on the Gator’s roster.
“She’s very mature, but she’s 
come into her own this year a lit-
tle bit where she’s recognizing her 
strengths and how those can benefit her,” Gators women’s golf coach Emily Glaser said. “(She’s) doing a good job of focusing on herself and what she needs to get better at, on and off the golf course.”
But before Vlckova was able to 
come into her own, the Czech Re-public native was battling through the struggles of being an interna-
tional student-athlete.
“Back in Europe, especially 
where I am from, it’s not like here 
that in high school you play a team 
sport for a school,” Vlckova said. 
“You can’t play sports and do uni-versity undergrad back home. It’s not possible.
“It was tough because when I 
missed school — of course it was professor from professor — most of them didn’t really care. If you miss, you miss.”
Fortunately for Vlckova, she had the opportunity to come to Florida early — a place where she was able 
to balance school and golf — as 
she enrolled at the university prior to the start of the 2013 Fall season. For her, this made her transition pe-
riod on the golf course that much 
smoother.
“She did a good job of adjust-
ing,” Glaser said. “She’s able to blend the two together which is 
what you need to be a successful 
student-athlete at a place like Flor-ida.”
The early move paid off.
In her first collegiate tourna-
ment, Vlckova helped lead the 
Gators to a first-place finish in the Cougar Classic. On an individual level, Vlckova finished the tourna-ment at 2-under-par and in a tie for sixth place — her first of three top-25 finishes that season.
After having success in her first 
year, Vlckova was able to take the next step as a sophomore.
Throughout Fall and Spring, 
Vlckova has been the best golfer on the roster, closing out the regular season with five top-25 finishes.
Of those five, Vlckova has placed 
in the top six four times, including the team’s final three regular season tournaments.
“I was so happy to finish three 
times in a row like that,” Vlckova said. “That showed me that I’m working on the right things and ... I want to be consistent."
Entering the postseason, Vlckova 
has been able to obtain her goal of being consistent, which has greatly benefited the team. When Vlckova 
finishes in the top six, the Gators as 
a group are successful, finishing in the top four each time.
Her best finish of the season 
came during the team’s lone home tournament — the SunTrust Gator Invitational. Vlckova shot 1-over-par during the final two rounds, putting her in a tie for second place on the individual leaderboard.
Her consistency can be credited 
in large part to a change in clubs at the start of the season.
“She’s always been a good ball 
striker, but when she found clubs that fit her very well and were very forgiving, then you can take it to the next level,” Glaser said. “I think that’s where the change has really helped her, mostly from a confi-
dence standpoint.”
But despite her recent success, 
Vlckova remains focused heading 
into the postseason and is aware 
that she must continue working on 
Did you know?
The Florida gymnastics team will compete in the 2015 NCAA Championships 
this weekend in Fort Worth, T exas. Five UF gymnasts — Kennedy Baker (Flower Mound), Claire Boyce (Arlington), Ericha Fassbender (Katy) Grace McLaughlin (Allen) and Rachel Spicer (Highland Village) — all hail from the Lone Star State.Justen Rosenberg / Alligator
Sophomore Karolina Vlckova high fives coach Emily Glaser during the final round of the SunTrust 
Gator Invitational on March 8 at UF's Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Sophomore becoming a mainstay in women's golf lineup
SEE KAROLINA,  PAGE 16
MEN'S TENNIS
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
 
Florida did it again.
After defeating Kentucky 4-1 earlier in 
the regular season, the No. 6-seed Gators opened up the Southeastern Conference 
Tournament on a high note, topping the 
11th-seeded Wildcats 4-2 on Thursday in College Station, Texas.
Florida (14-7) focused on earning one 
point at a time and making alterations from past matches.
The Gators did just that.No. 51 pairing Maxx Lipman and Elliott 
Orkin opened play with a 6-3 win on the No. 
1 doubles court before duo Diego Hidalgo and Gordon Watson clinched the doubles point with a 6-3 win of their own on Court 
2.
“All three (doubles) teams came out 
ready to play and they played really well,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release.
But after taking a 1-0 lead, Florida could 
have squandered it in singles action.
It didn’t.“Here at the tournament that’s what you 
want to do,” Shelton said. “You want to meet the challenges when they come and make adjustments that you need to make. I think we made enough adjustments today to get the job done.”
Florida dropped its matches on the Nos. 
1 and 2 courts in straight sets, with Hidalgo falling on the show court to Kentucky’s Jer-ry Lopez (6-4, 6-3) and Orkin falling 6-2, 6-2 
to William Bushamuka.
But wins from freshman Chase Perez-
Blanco, Lipman and Watson put Florida 
over the top.
Watson clinched the game point after a 
tie-break in both sets of the singles match on the No. 3 court (7-6, 7-6).
“It was one of those matches where we 
weren’t playing our very best but we were competing hard,” Shelton said. “It wasn’t pretty in a lot of places but we were able 
to advance by getting the necessary points 
over a gritty Kentucky team.”
The Gators continue action in the SEC 
tournament today at 10 a.m. against No. 3 seed Mississippi State in the quarterfinals, a team Florida beat 4-1 earlier this year.
“I’m looking forward to the match tomor-
row against Mississippi State,” Shelton said. “We know those guys well, so we are going 
to have to get some rest and be ready to go.”
Notes:  Florida is 45-14 all-time against 
Kentucky, including a perfect 6-0 mark in 
the SEC Tournament. … Perez-Blanco has a team-high 25 singles victories this season. … Lipman and Orkin’s doubles win was the 
second straight doubles victory against a 
ranked opponent.Florida opens SEC Tournament with win over KentuckyUF begins SEC Championships today
“You want to meet the challenges when 
they come and make adjustments that 
you need to make.”
Bryan Shelton
UF men's tennis coachFRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  THE FIRST GAME IS TODA Y 
AT 6 P .M.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Florida softball is on a roll.
The Gators have won nine 
straight games, eight of which were at home, and have swept Southeast-
ern Conference teams in consecu-
tive weekends.   
But No. 2 UF (41-4, 11-4 SEC) 
will have its work cut out for it 
when the team travels to Athens, Georgia, to square off against No. 11 Georgia (35-11, 11-7 SEC) for the first of three games on Friday at 6 p.m.
“It’s gonna be a big test for us,” 
coach Tim Walton said. “It’s prob-ably gonna be one of the more dy-namic teams that we’ve seen since maybe LSU.”
Florida hasn’t dropped an SEC 
series since the middle of March, when LSU took two of three games from the Gators in Gainesville.
UF pitchers will have to keep the 
Bulldogs’ hitters in check on and off the bases.
Four Georgia batters are hit-ting higher than .400. Two of those batters, sisters Cortni and Sydni Emanuel, have stolen a combined 60 bases.
To put that in perspective, the 
Gators have stolen 60 bases as a team.
Florida’s offense will be tasked 
with facing Georgia pitcher Chelsea Wilkinson, who is 21-7 with a 1.85 ERA this season.
In her career against the Gators, 
the junior has a 1.65 ERA and 28 strikeouts in just 17 innings.
“Chelsea Wilkinson is a good 
pitcher,” Walton said, “and we haven’t had the answer for her yet.”
   By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
No. 8 Florida and Mississippi 
State will begin a three-game se-
ries tonight at 7:30 in Starkville, 
Mississippi.
Right-hander Logan Shore (5-
2, 2.16 ERA) will get the start for 
the Gators (28-10, 9-6 Southeast-
ern Conference), who are coming off an extra-innings road loss to Florida State on Tuesday.
Despite the 4-3 loss, UF found 
some positives from its play in Tallahassee.
Freshman JJ Schwarz hit a 
home run in the sixth inning, 
marking the fourth time in five 
games where he knocked a ball out of the park.
The Gators also lead the na-
tion in fielding percentage (.985) and rank sixth in slugging per-centage (.483) as they begin the 
back half of the SEC season.
Currently, the Gators sit in 
fifth place in the conference, 
three places ahead of the Bull-dogs.
Mississippi State (22-16, 6-9 
SEC) has lost four of its last five games and rank in the bottom half of the SEC in ERA (3.99), hits 
(343), batting average (.278) and 
opposing batting average (.256).
Florida is 12-5  against Mis-
sissippi State under head coach Kevin O’Sullivan.
The game can be viewed on-
line through SEC Network+.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The Florida baseball team huddles prior to UF’s 14-3 win against South Carolina on Friday at McK -
ethan Stadium. The Gators begin a three-game road series with Mississippi State tonight.
UF baseball hits the road, begins series with Mississippi StateFlorida softball continues SEC schedule against Georgia
Florida’s Final Five SEC Series
Road vs. Mississippi State: Today - Sunday
Home vs. Kentucky: April 24-26Road vs. Georgia: May 1-3
Road vs. Vanderbilt: May 7-9
Home vs. Auburn: May 14-16Dates, Times and TV
Friday: 6 p.m. on SEC Network+Saturday: 4 p.m. on ESPN2Sunday: 1 p.m. on ESPNU16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
By Eneisy Rodriguez
Alligator Writer
@eneisyr29
After clinching the Southeast-
ern Conference regular season title 
on Sunday, the top-seeded Florida women’s tennis team looks to rack up more hardware at the SEC Tour-
nament in Columbia, South Caro-
lina.
The Gators begin action today 
against No. 9 seed Ole Miss at 9 a.m.
Heading into postseason play, 
coach Roland Thornqvist said he hopes the team will continue to win close matches, something the team 
has had to face the 
whole year.
He is confident his 
team will move past the negative and ad-just during pressured situations.
The Gators finished 
the regular season on a 
positive note with a 4-0 sweep over 
Tennessee on Sunday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
The Gators have won 28 of the 
last 35 possible regular-season SEC titles, 10 of which have come under Thornqvist.
Florida finished the 
2014-2015 regular sea-son with a 12-1 record in SEC play—the only defeat coming against Vanderbilt at the be-ginning of April.
Thornqvist was 
very pleased with dou-
bles play during the home weekend finale.
He thought this young squad had 
a great start in singles play against both the Georgia Bulldogs and Ten-nessee Volunteers.
“I think we’ve been very close all 
year to have had a fantastic doubles team, in general,” Thornqvist said. “But after Vandy it sort of illuminat-ed a few things, I think. And I think it motivated our players too, to buy into these new teams immediately,” 
Thornqvist said he thinks chang-
ing the doubles pairings late in the year has forced communication 
among the team — a catalyst for 
better play towards the end of the regular season.
He added that under pressure, 
teammates have been forced to communicate with one another and make a few adjustments.
“Winning an SEC title, with this 
team as young as we are, is such a great feeling,” Thornqvist said. “This year the SEC on the women’s side is really deep. There’s so many good teams. Our four new players to come in and perform consistently like they did over the course of the year is really special. 
“And winning trophies is some-
thing Florida teams in general tend to spoil everyone with. I’m happy to see this team could come through as well.”
Top-seed UF opens conference tournament against Ole Miss
WOMEN'S
TENNIS
improving her game.
“I’m going to work on technique and then 
the next week before the tournament I’m go-
ing to just get ready like for another tourna-ment,” Vlckova said. “They’re the same play-
ers, the same teams, it’s just a different name of the tournament.”
That tournament she is referring to is the 
Southeastern Conference Championship – an event the Gators have not won since the 2007-
08 season.
However, with Vlckova leading the way in 
the past months, the Gators are in a position 
to change that.
Outside of Vlckova, the Gators lineup will feature seniors Camilla Hedberg and Anna Young in the two and four spots, respective-ly, sophomore Maria Torres at the three and freshman Taylor Tomlinson, who will make 
her postseason debut in the five spot. 
Along with Vlckova, Tomlinson has been 
the Gators’ top golfer this season. 
The Gainesville native is the only golfer 
to compete in each tournament this season, finishing in the top-25 a team-high six times. 
Her play has also earned her two SEC 
Women’s Freshman Golfer of the Week 
awards. 
“It’s possible. (For) any of us it’s possible 
to win it and the team is capable of winning this kind of tournament,” Vlckova said. “It would mean a lot because it’s a high level 
tournament.”KAROLINA,  from pg 14The Gators have not won an SEC title since the 2007-08 seasonBy Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
 
It was a typical training day in early winter: 
boring.
For a collegiate gymnast, the preseason isn’t 
fun, and it can easily become a mindless grind 
as you count the days, weeks and months until 
the start of the season.
Side by side stood UF gymnasts Kytra Hunter 
and Alex McMurtry, beginning a stretching rou-
tine before training started with the rest of their Gator teammates.
For Kytra, a senior, this was the beginning of 
the end. After already leaving a legacy worthy of being called one of the best gymnasts in school history, she was preparing to write the final 
chapter in her storied career that coming spring.
For Alex, a freshman, this was simply the 
beginning.
The beginning of a career filled with promise 
and expectation.
The beginning of her pursuit for a legacy all 
her own.
The beginning of the next phase of her life.
But it was also the chance to do something 
the then-17-year-old would never get to do again, something she had wanted to do since elementary school: compete on the same team as Kytra.
As the two continued to stretch, both girls 
locked eyes and exchanged a look. Not a word was spoken, but a single idea transferred from one to the other.
Neither knew what the idea actually was, but 
it was enough to cause both gymnasts to burst into laughter simultaneously — an uncontrolla-ble laughter that lasted for a full five minutes. The scene was enough to cause anyone around to question the pair’s sanity.
But they didn’t care. Even in the monotony of pre-season stretch-
ing, Kytra and Alex were savoring every mo-ment together in what would be a season Alex 
had hoped for long before either girl set foot in 
Gainesville.
Alex was always a special athlete, even as a 
toddler.
Her mother, Christine McMurtry, said she 
had “freaky” muscle definition and was weirdly strong for her age, and by the time she was 3 years old, Alex was already climbing swing set frames and every piece of furniture imaginable.
Christine decided to sign her up for gymnas-
tics. It was the right choice.
Within a few years, Alex grew into one of the 
best gymnasts in the area and surged up the ju-
nior levels, competing with girls who were four, 
five and even six years older than she was.
She lived in Midlothian, Virginia, a suburban 
community of just under 50,000 people outside of Richmond, and her gym often needed to trav-el to find suitable competition.
As she got older, Alex and the rest of the girls 
from her gym travelled progressively more to find top-notch gyms to compete against, includ-
ing neighboring states.
One of those states was Maryland, and Alex’s 
gym would frequently make the two and a half 
hour drive north to compete with Hill’s Gymnas-tics in Gaithersburg, a gym that has produced multiple Olympians and a certain Gator gymnast named Kytra Hunter.
It was there in Gaithersburg where the two 
first met — although met might not be the most 
accurate word.
“I was too scared to go talk to her,” Alex said 
with a laugh.
At 16, Kytra was already a national champi-
on in multiple events and well on her way to 
representing the U.S. internationally. For an el-ementary schooler like Alex, Kytra was larger than life.
“I was shy,” Alex said. “I was not going to go 
talk to Kytra Hunter.”
Instead, Alex admired Kytra from a distance, 
modeling how she competed after her elder of five years.
“She probably knew who I was before I even 
noticed her,” Kytra said.
After a few months of cautious idolization, 
she got over her fear and started interacting with Kytra on a semi-regular basis.
The two became friends and would talk when 
they were together during competitions, but be-cause of the age gap, they rarely spoke about anything other than gymnastics and school — nothing too personal.After Kytra left to attend UF, the communica-
tion between them lessened. Alex kept up with what Kytra was doing at Florida and used her role model’s performances as inspiration, but the two weren’t particularly close while they were apart.
But that changed by the time Alex’s junior 
year in high school rolled around.
Alex had two difficult decisions to make 
when it came to college.
The first was obvious: where to go. She wanted to go somewhere warm with a 
quality gymnastics program, and her top choices were Stanford, UCLA and Florida.
But she also had to decide when she want-
ed to leave. After getting ahead in school during her first three years, she had the option to forgo her senior year in high school and go straight to college.
It would mean sacrificing prom and other 
senior experiences, but it would also mean she would be able to start her collegiate career with one fewer year of wear and tear on her body.
And if she decided to attend UF, she would 
get a year to compete with Kytra.
When she made her official visit to Gaines-
ville, Kytra made sure nothing was left to chance.
From the moment Alex stepped on campus, 
Kytra was introducing her to the team, showing 
her around and simply making the teenager feel 
like a long-lost family member who had found 
home again.
“I think I definitely influenced her decision,” 
Kytra said with a smile.
Alex’s mother saw the bond between them 
rekindled instantly.
“They were like best buds,” Christine said. 
“They were just hugging and so happy to see 
each other.”
After visiting with all the coaches and seeing 
the campus, Alex was pretty sure Florida was the right fit.
But she was still unsure if she wanted to 
make the jump before her final year of high school.
“Graduating early, yeah, I was really hesitant 
to do it at first,” Alex said, “but even (Kytra) was like ‘You can do this.’
“I think that’s what I needed to hear.”
The amount of communication between Alex 
and Kytra skyrocketed from that point forward, 
with both girls sending messages of motivation and encouragement every time either of them would have a meet — a surreal feeling for Alex.
“That’s when it really took off,” Alex said 
of their relationship. “She would text me and I would be so excited to text her back.”
She took her time to make the official deci-
sion, but she confided in Kytra a month and a half before informing the coaches that she was likely coming to Florida.
“It was hard to keep my mouth shut,” Kytra said.
But she did, and six weeks later Alex made 
her decision official.
She enrolled that fall as a 17-year-old, and the 
relationship took off from there.
Kytra had to restrain herself on move-in day. 
She wanted to give Alex’s family space on such an emotional occasion, but it was hard to stay away.
“I knew she wanted to unpack my boxes,” 
Alex said.
It was seemingly the last time there was any 
space between them.
During Alex’s first semester, the two were in-
separable. They had dinner every Friday night, spent time doing nothing in each other’s dorms and discussed anything and everything that was going on in their lives.
“Even though freshmen and seniors don’t re-
ally hang out, she would just come over to my dorm and talk to me,” Alex said.
They got to the point where words weren’t 
even necessary; they could spend long durations of time together in complete silence without a shred of awkwardness.
“We have a bond where we don’t always 
need to communicate by talking,” Kytra said.
Their relationship only grew closer during 
the season, and despite the immense talent both gymnasts possess, each girl helped raise the oth-
er’s ceiling.
First, it was Alex. Both gymnasts have sim-
ilar personalities, and by training together, Al-
ex’s perfectionist attitude came out progressively more to match Kytra’s efforts.
“We’re like the same person,” Kytra said. 
“She’s really hard on herself and pushes herself to the limit, and that’s something I do, too.”
As time went on, the coaches began to see more similarities between the two and raised their expectations for Alex.
“I know the coaches have looked to me to be 
a leader,” Alex said, “and at first I was like ‘I’m just a freshman,’ but they were like ‘But you’re 
under Kytra, you can step it up and you know 
what you can do.’”
So, like with everything else, Alex led like Ky-
tra — by example.
“I think our leadership roles are very simi-
lar,” Alex said. “We’re not gonna be the ones who step up and tell the team what to do. We’re gonna be the ones who are working hard and doing extra numbers to make our routines bet-
ter, and I think everyone sees that.”
But as Kytra continued to mentor Alex, the 
freshman’s influence slowly began to manifest 
itself in the senior as well. Throughout her time at Florida, Kytra has never been the one to speak up. She’s quiet, focused and generally uncom-fortable with telling people what to do.
But through the process of helping Alex, 
coach Rhonda Faehn began to see a change in 
her senior, a change the team desperately need-
ed without junior Bridget Sloan for much of the year.
“(Mentoring Alex) has forced Kytra out of her 
box she’s been in, and she has really stepped out this year as a senior,” Faehn said, “espe-cially as a more vocal leader and someone who can help guide the younger athletes. I think it’s made Kytra more mature as both a person and 
a gymnast.”
With only one weekend remaining in the sea-
son, a dream year for both gymnasts is coming 
to a close.
Alex leads the nation in vault Regional Qual-
ifying Score, ranks 13th on bars and recorded the earliest perfect 10 in a UF gymnast’s career.Kytra was named the Southeastern Con-
ference Gymnast of the Year, led the nation in 
all-around RQS during the regular season and 
ranked second on floor. She also ranked second on vault, behind only her protege.
Without the two, Florida would not be chal-
lenging for a national title this weekend.
Without each other, neither girl would have 
grown into the gymnast and person they have each become.
But after Sunday, it will be over. Kytra will graduate, and Alex will continue 
with her career on her own.
“It’s gonna be hard, especially next season I 
think it’ll hit me when I don’t have her next to me,” Alex said.
Kytra has told Alex that she expects Alex to 
take over her role, but Alex isn’t really sure it’s possible.
“I don’t know, it seems weird to be replacing 
my best friend,” Alex said.
For Kytra, the time following this weekend 
will already be emotional as she moves on to the 
next phase of her life.
Her gymnastics career will be over, and she’ll 
need to find a new career on which to embark.
But most of all, she’ll miss her time compet-
ing with Alex. While she wishes she could get 
another year with her, Kytra is thankful for the year they have had together.
But at the same time, she also realizes their 
relationship might grow apart as their lives take 
different paths.
“She’s like my sister,” Kytra said. “She’s 
made large footprints in my life.
“But not being on the same team, our rela-
tionship will probably never be as close  — it 
just won’t.”
But Alex disagrees. Although she will have 
new experiences that she won’t be able to share with Kytra in the years to come, Alex believes 
the bond they now have is something more than 
a teammate relationship, something that will last no matter the circumstances.
“Something tells me we’ll be close our whole 
lives,” she said.
ROTATION
I
II
III
IV
V
VIRoad to a Three Peat
Editor Jordan McPherson   Photos for Cover Illustration Jordan McPherson and Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, April 17, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
McMurtry and the Gators are set to compete in the first semifinal of the 2015 NCAA Championships today. Competition begins at 2 p.m. 
in Fort Worth, T exas. The top three teams from the two semifinals advance to Saturday’s Super Six, where the champion will be named.
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Freshman Alex McMurtry, 18, has been a staple in Florida’s lineup this season, competing on vault, bars and beam. She graduated high school a year early in order to be on the same team as senior Kytra Hunter.
Bridgette CaquattoKennedy BakerKiersten WangBridget SloanKytra HunterAlex McMurtryPROJECTED
LINEUP
VAULT
Kennedy BakerBianca Dancose-GiambattistoKytra HunterBridgette CaquattoBridget SloanAlex McMurtryBARS
Claire BoyceRachel SpicerEricha FassbenderBridget SloanAlex McMurtryKytra HunterBEAM
Rachel SpicerKiersten WangKennedy BakerBridget SloanKytra Hunter Bridgette CaquattoFLOOR
Kytra Hunter Bridget SloanALL-AROUNDREUNITED
VAULT BYE BARS BEAM BYE FLOOR
Georgia
UCLA
Florida
Utah
Michigan
StanfordStanford
Georgia
UCLA
Florida
Utah
MichiganMichigan
Stanford
Georgia
GeorgiaStanfordMichiganUtah
UCLA
Florida UtahFloridaUCLAFlorida
Utah
Michigan
Stanford
Georgia
UCLA GeorgiaStanfordMichiganUtahFloridaUCLAFreshman McMurtry enjoying short 
time with teammate, mentor Hunter
•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •This is it.
In the next 48 hours, the Florida 
gymnastics team has the potential to 
do what only two other teams have 
ever done before.
They’re going for a three-peat, an accom-
plishment that hasn’t happened since Geor-
gia took ﬁ  ve consecutive titles from 2005-
2009.
But don’t tell them about what they’ve 
already accomplished.
They’re not focusing on the past.
“Not once has anyone said, ‘Gosh, we’re 
going into nationals as two-time national 
champions,’” said junior Bridget Sloan. 
And with the top-12 teams in the country 
competing for the same title in Fort Worth, Texas, this weekend, the end of the road will be anything but easy.
But to Sloan, that extra bit of competi-
tion is what makes her look forward to the 
postseason.
“Nationals is just one of the most excit-
ing times,” she said. “I mean, the best of 
the best teams are there from every single 
conference.”
In order to win it all, No. 2 seed UF will 
ﬁ  rst need to ﬁ  nish in the top half of its six-
team semiﬁ  nal ﬁ  eld, a grouping that in-cludes No. 3 Utah, No. 6 Michigan, No. 7 
UCLA, No. 10 Georgia and No. 11 Stanford.
From there, should they advance, UF and 
the other two teams will advance to Sat-
urday’s Super Six along with the top three 
teams from the second semiﬁ  nal — which, 
barring some unforeseen occurrence, will be No. 1 Oklahoma, No. 4 LSU and No. 5 Alabama.
All three of those teams accomplished 
one major feat this season that no other team has done: They all have outscored Florida.
On top of that, LSU and Alabama did it 
twice.
But right now, the Gators aren’t focusing 
on the wins or the losses. Those are in the past.The goal right now is to ﬁ  n-
ish the season on a high note.
The rest will come.
“We’re at the point where 
we not only need to hit our rou-
tines,” Sloan said. “But we need to make them as perfect as pos-
sible.”
Added coach Rhonda Faehn: 
“We’re not doing anything dif-
ferent than we normally do. This is just the excitement of heading into what 
we consider the most fun part of the season, 
what we’ve been looking forward to.”
The Gators’ road to Fort Worth has been 
anything but smooth.
They saw Sloan and Jamie Shisler go 
down in the season opener. The former, a seven-time NCAA All-American, sprained her ankle during the ﬁ  -nal tumbling pass of her ﬂ  oor 
routine and sat on the sideline 
for the next ﬁ  ve meets. The lat-ter, a senior who Faehn planned to use sporadically throughout 
the season, ruptured her Achil-
les’ tendon prior to her ﬂ  oor ex-hibition, effectively ending her gymnastics season and career.
They saw the falls, two on the balance 
beam during the Southeastern Conference Championships and another one on bars during the NCAA Regionals.
And in 12 meets, the Gators have used 12 
different lineups, swapping pieces here and there depending on who was available and who was underperforming.
But to Faehn, the struggles and the adver-
sity only made the team stronger.
Now, the pieces are coming together 
right when they need to.
“This team, they’re used to pressure,” 
Faehn said. “They’ve been used to heavy, 
hard situations all season long, so this is 
something they’re familiar with.”
And through the pressure came great-
ness.
Florida ﬁ  nished off the regular season 
with at least a 197.90 score in three straight meets.
Sloan returned from injury and became 
the rock she had been the last two years, 
ﬁ  nishing the regular season second in the 
country on the uneven parallel bars with a 9.960 regional qualifying score.
Two of her seven bars routines resulted 
in perfect 10s.
Freshman trio Kennedy Baker, Ericha 
Fassbender and Alex McMurtry all stepped up their games.
Baker became the third UF gymnast in 
four years to earn the SEC Freshman of the Year honor, joining teammates Sloan and Kytra Hunter.
McMurtry ﬁ  nished the regular season 
leading the country on vault and earned a 
perfect 10 on the event in just her second 
career meet.
Add in sophomore Claire Boyce; juniors 
Bridgette Caquatto and Bianca Dancose-
Giambattisto; and a trio of seniors in Hunter, 
Rachel Spicer and Kiersten Wang, and Flor-ida has the potential to be a deadly force on all four events.
“We have a good mix,” Sloan said.
If all goes well for the Gators, they could 
walk out of the Lone Star State with their 
third national title in as many years.
But that’s not the main talking point.
Everything’s been business as usual.
“It’s been very relaxed,” Sloan said. 
“That helps a lot.”20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Since returning from a sprained ankle in UF’s season opener, junior Bridget Sloan 
has been an anchor for the Florida gymnastics team.
AIR JORDAN
Florida gymnastics growing from early struggles, capable of the three-peat
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126