By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the last rays of sun disap-
peared, the ﬁ  rst candle was lit.
A crowd gathered, chattering as 
they picked up candles from a table.
Lara Alqasem stood in front of 
the table and waited, looking at her 
iPhone before she took a deep breath.
“No one leaves home unless 
home is the mouth of a shark,” the 19-year-old UF political science soph-omore recited, her voice cracking. “You only run for the border when you see the whole city running as well.”
And the crowd was silent.
The home Alqasem spoke of was 
Syria, a home ravaged by war. She 
recited the poem, written by Warsan Shire, as part of a vigil Monday eve-ning on Turlington Plaza to recognize more than four million refugees who have ﬂ  ed Syria since the Arab Spring protests in 2011. About 40 UF stu-dents and Gainesville residents came 
to pay their respects and recognize 
the issues of the refugees’ plight.
“At the end of the day, we’re all humans,” said Judy Ballich, a UF psychology junior, to the crowd. “We 
need to hold ourselves accountable.”
She spoke of a late-night call from 
her aunt, saying her cousin in Syria 
had almost lost his life to a grazing bullet. In a voice trembling with emo-tion, Ballich, 20, condemned those who ignored the crisis as articles and videos circulated on social media.
“You guys aren’t just students,” 
she said. “You can be a voice for someone.”
Before the vigil, hosted by the UF 
Radical Student Alliance, the Arab Students’ Association held a meeting to inform students about the history We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 21 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
Still without a starter
Jim McElwain has yet to name a starting quar-
terback despite Will Grier playing the entirety of Saturday’s game against Kentucky, pg. 13
SG party platforms
A look at Access Party and Impact Party, pg.3
New RecSports building 
It will increase jobs and provide equipment, pg.5Follow us online
For all the latest updates, check out alligator.org, like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter (@TheAlligator) and Instagram (@TheAlligator_).
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Lara Alqasem, 19, a member of the UF Radical Student Alliance and a UF political science sophomore, 
speaks during a candlelight vigil in support of refugees. About 40 students attended the event. 
Vigil honors Syrian refugees
UF WAS LOWER THAN 
NATIONAL AVERAGE.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Almost one in ﬁ  ve women at 
UF has been sexually assaulted, 
according to a campus assault 
survey released Monday.
The survey was administered 
to UF students last April, after 
the attempted assaults in Fall 
2014.
It is a statistic that is slightly 
lower than the national average 
— and one that is not a surprise.
The survey lines up with 
what other surveys have found, said Chris Loschiavo, a UF as-sociate dean of students and di-rector of Conduct and Conﬂ  ict 
Resolution.
The data was part of the As-
sociation of American Universi-ties’ inaugural Campus Climate 
Survey on Sexual Assault and Sexual Misconduct. The survey was given to more than 150,000 students at 27 universities to 
ask students about sexual as-
sault and sexual misconduct on campus.
While UF’s numbers were 
lower than the national average — including UF undergraduate females experiencing less sex-ual assault with physical force (20%) than the national average 
(23%) — Loschiavo said the re-sults were still concerning.
He said for UF, “One is too 
many.”
“I think part of it is just help-
ing students understand how we 
deﬁ  ne the behavior,” he said.
Loschiavo said he thinks in-
creasing student awareness of what constitutes sexual assault will be part of UF’s plan moving forward. UF participated in the 
survey to identify gaps in their 
services.
“This gives us a better bench-
mark,” he said.
The survey asked respon-
dents if they identiﬁ  ed as trans-gender, genderqueer, non-con-forming or questioning, said Sandra Martin, a member of the AAU survey development team.
“We’ll be able to provide 
context for the issues students experienced,” she said.
The survey could have a non-
response bias, with non-victims 
being less likely to participate, 
said David Cantor, vice presi-dent of Westat, the research ﬁ  rm that administered the sur-
vey. The survey shows slightly 
higher rates of non-consensual assault than other surveys.UF releases results of 
sexual assault survey
CAMPUS
By Jennifer Jenkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF ﬁ  nance sophomore Caroline Ham-
moud learned how to build connections for 
UF’s Career Showcase — online.
The 19-year-old attended the Career Re-
source Center’s LinkedIn workshop Mon-day, where students were taught how to make effective proﬁ  les for Career Showcase.
Hammoud said she is planning on attend-
ing Career Showcase, held in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Sept. 29 and 30 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
“I’m hoping to learn how to use Linke-
dIn, and how it actually helps,” Hammoud said.
CRC staff member Matthew Cowley, 25, 
said traditional resumes aren’t as interactive as LinkedIn proﬁ  les. That’s why the CRC hosted the workshop and will offer students the opportunity to get free headshots from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. during the Career Showcase.
Cowley told students at the workshop that 94 percent of recruiters use social net-works or social media to look for future stu-dent employees and interns.
However, UF psychology junior Rachel 
Fisher said she doesn’t think companies should hire students based on their social media.
“I think that it can be helpful, but I don’t 
think it should ever be a deciding factor for someone who is deciding on hiring you or not,” the 20-year-old said.
Cowley encourages students to get a 
LinkedIn account for Career Showcase and future jobs.
“Your LinkedIn proﬁ  le is something that 
people can interact with even without you ever knowing that they are really even inter-acting with it,” he said.UF students use LinkedIn to prepare for Career ShowcaseSEE ASSAULT,  PAGE 4SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 8
“I’m hoping to learn how to use 
LinkedIn, and how it actually helps.”
Caroline Hammoud
UF ﬁ  nance sophomore“W e’ll be able to provide 
context for the issues 
students experienced.”
Sandra Martin
survey development 
team memberAbout 40 people attendedSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets today at 5:45 p.m. 
in the UF Entomology Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Dr. Everyone is welcome to attend 
and learn about Toastmasters. 
For details about Talking Gators, 
go to: talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Facebook page. 
Gay Movie Night
On Friday, at 7:30 p.m. at the Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St., the movie “Tiger Orange” will be shown. Chet and 
Todd are estranged gay brothers.
Todd ran off to Los Angeles. Chet 
stayed at home, mostly closeted, 
to run the family store and care for their dying father. When Todd 
returns home broke and home-
less, long-simmering resentments 
boil to the surface as the brothers 
confront their differences and sim-ilarities. Gay Movie Night is a free 
service of the Pride Community 
Center. A $2 donation is request-
ed to help cover cost of snacks.Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org. Please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 21
HIGH  86° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Police arrested a 
local man Sunday night after he re-
portedly fell asleep on the road.
At about 8:15 p.m., Willie L. 
Gainey, 59, reportedly dozed off in 
the 1400 block of NW U.S. Highway 
441, near a Kangaroo Express and Brown’s Country Buffet, according to a police report.
Daphne Mahn, 41, said she was 
traveling to her storage locker when she saw a man with his lower body in the road. 
His upper body blocked the bike 
lane and one of his ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  ops laid nearby, she said.
“I wasn’t sure if it was a hit and 
run or if someone was hurt,” she said.
She stopped the car and woke 
Gainey up by ﬂ  ashing her headlights.
Despite Gainey mumbling and 
trying to get in the car, Mahn never felt threatened. An ofﬁ  cer saw Gain-ey leaning against the car and later 
found two Steel Reserve beers nearby, according to the report.
“He was clear-
ly intoxicated and was not able to function quite that far,” Mahn 
said.
Police arrested Gainey on a 
charge of disorderly intoxication and 
took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $2,000 bond.  Florida man arrested 
after napping in streetBy Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF health science sophomore 
Pooja Surkanti isn’t registered to 
vote, but she’s taking a step to change that today.
The 19-year-old said she will at-
tend the Bob Graham Center for Public Services’ voter-registration kickoff, which will be in Pugh Hall from 10:20 a.m. to 4 p.m. today. The Andrew Goodman Foundation’s Vote Everywhere program will part-ner with the center. The goal of the event is to get people to register to vote, said Michael Beato, one of the 
event planners. Students can register 
at the event. 
“Students are the future leaders 
of the country,” the UF economics junior said. Beato, 21, said the Graham Cen-
ter will engage students through Tur-boVote, which helps people register 
to vote by alerting them of upcoming 
elections. The Graham Center will give students free pizza and those who register on TurboVote will be entered to win rafﬂ  e prizes, like Star-bucks gift cards and GoPro cameras, Beato said.
“This is the ﬁ  rst year UF has had 
the Vote Everywhere program really 
be represented,” said Megan New-
some, another event planner.  
The center hopes 100 to 200 
people will attend, said Newsome, a 19-year-old UF physics and astrono-my sophomore.
Surkanti said people should regis-
ter because it’s a civic duty.
“If you don’t vote, you don’t get 
the right to complain,” she said.  UF center hosts voter-
registration kickoﬀ   
Gainey
Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffA look at party platforms
AccessImpact
 Open Student Government
 Implement online voting 
through constitutional amendment
 Eliminate remaining Student Government ofﬁ  cials’ salaries
 Fight to create Senate position for Inﬁ  nity Hall representation
 Establish Senator ofﬁ  ce hours
 Increase resources for international students
 Transportation & safety
 Extend parking grace period for two weeks of ﬁ  rst semester
 Revamp Walk Safe program with golf carts for increased efﬁ  ciency and safety
 Expand scooter parking
 Reform SNAP system to increase timeliness
 Devise a comprehensive plan to address sexual assault on campus
 Create Safe Rides program with Uber partnership
 Health
 Install additional hydration stations
 Extend hours for dining halls across campus
 Develop mental health support and advocacy
 Introduce a campus farmers market
 Fight to stop the unnecessary yearly increase in activity and service fees
 Advocate for better graduate assistant compensation packages
 Collaborate with apartment complexes to improve leasing dates to bridge gap    
 Create a clothing-share closet for professional wear    
 Allow for substitution of parking citation fees with community service hours    
 Provide free test booklets     Sustainable campus
 Develop a composting program for all dining halls     
 Create LED lighting to reduce energy consumption
 Implement a 10 year ecological plan for the university to reduce carbon footprint
 Encourage campus beautiﬁ  cation by repairing damaged sprinklers
 Education    
 Renovate Music Building
 Continue to lobby for campus renovations
 Introduce diversity and inclusivity education into ﬁ  rst-year curriculum
 Develop better communication with ﬁ  nancial aid
 Create mid-term faculty evaluations    
 Improve campus Wi-Fi Host annual research opportunity 
showcase
 Enhance campus mental health services
 Lobby for infrastructure renovations at Norman Hall and the music building
 Provide healthier food options on campus
 Preserve student nightlife options
 Integrate waitlist system capabilities into course registration 
 Install parking garage capacity counters
 Open on-campus farmers market
 Reintroduce Walk Safe program
 Launch “Dress to Impress” student closet
 Improve on-campus lighting
 Establish diversity outreach program By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Michael Connelly, a best-selling and award-
winning author of nearly 30 mystery novels, 
started his UF career as an engineering major.
But he graduated from UF’s College of Jour-
nalism and Communications. After three de-
cades, he came back Monday night to share in-
sight about the writing industry with students and interviewer Mike Foley, a UF journalism professor.
He was the ﬁ  rst in the college’s Great Story-
tellers series, wrote the Department of Journal-ism’s chair, Ted Spiker, in an email.
The 59-year-old author said he was slated 
to work at his family’s building construction 
business, as his father had done before him.
But instead of investing his energy in class-
es, he would spend hours reading every issue 
of Rolling Stone in the UF library. He favored Hunter Thompson’s work for the magazine, in which the journalist published “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.”
Connelly knew he was meant to be a sto-
ryteller.
Eventually, he changed his major to jour-
nalism. Years later, he said he became a crime reporter at the Los Angeles Times, where he garnered most of the inspiration and research for his novels.
“I was a reporter by day, a storyteller by 
night,” he said.
Connelly said the dual nature of his work 
hurt his writing, and he ended up taking a three-month-long sabbatical to write a novel.
Foley and Connelly spoke extensively 
about his character Harry Bosch, off whom the Amazon Prime Instant Video television series “Bosch” is based.
UF advertising junior Chloe Craig attended 
the event and said she was inspired by his sto-
ry of success and the advice he offered.
The 20-year-old said it was incredible to 
peek inside the mind of someone successful in 
a ﬁ  eld related to the one she hopes to pursue.
“His perspective is one you don’t often get 
to hear or see,” she said. “It was a humbling and motivating experience.”
Kayla Ziadie, a journalism sophomore, said 
she enjoyed Connelly’s advice to follow your 
dreams and write every day, even if it’s only 
for 15 minutes.
“It’s really refreshing to know he can write 
28 books and still be on a roll,” the 19-year-old said. “It was inspiring to hear his insight into a career that hits so close to home because it’d be great to have the success that he’s had.” 4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Mike Foley (left), a UF professor of journalism, interviews best-selling writer and UF 
alumnus Michael Connelly in Weimer Hall on Monday on his career shift from reporter to novelist.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
The fate of a controversial 
confederate statue in downtown 
Gainesville may be determined 
today.
Alachua County commission-
ers will discuss what to do with 
the statue of an unknown Con-
federate soldier during a County 
Commission meeting, which will begin at 5 p.m. in the Alachua County Administration building. The statue sparked controversy 
in recent months, notably in July 
when protestors confronted each other in a clash of beliefs and ide-ology.
Some have suggested relo-
cating the statue, possibly to the Matheson History Museum. Others believe it should remain where it stands.
“It’s a living monument to white supremacy,” said Jesse Arost, a UF alumnus who gradu-ated in 2008 with bachelor’s de-
grees in English and Russian. “It’s 
a living monument to everything the confederacy fought for.”
“I think we live in a white 
society where white people are privileged and a certain group of white people don’t want to ac-knowledge that fact because ac-
knowledging it… requires action 
on their part,” the 29-year-old ac-tivist said.
Steven Ingram, the public af-
fairs ofﬁ  cer for the Florida League of the South, said he worries about the removal of Confederate monuments, calling it “Southern cultural genocide.”
“Those symbols… represent 
us as a people,” Ingram said. “For us, Southerners are the descen-dants of white Europeans who 
have been rooted here for centu-
ries.”Matheson History Museum ex-
ecutive director Peggy Macdonald said, to her knowledge, there has been no survey done to determine how much it would cost to move 
the statue to the museum.
And even if commissioners 
vote to relocate the statue to 
the museum, Macdonald said, the museum’s board of directors would have to approve it.
Alachua County Commissioner 
Lee Pinkoson is against relocat-ing the statue, saying instead it should remain as a reminder of the lives lost during the Civil War.
“It’s a statue honoring the 
dead,” he said. “Obviously I’m not against that. I think that’s how it should be viewed.”Statue up for debate in commission
“You have to be very careful 
of the fact that you’re comparing apples to apples,” he said.
Erin Meisenzahl-Peace, a UF 
journalism senior, said sexual as-sault is a problem. 
The 21-year-old said she’s 
known students who have been victims.
Programs like Walk Safe are a step in the right direction, but 
students should be able to walk 
at night without being afraid, she said.
“I think they’re a Band-Aid so-
lution,” she said.
Loschiavo said students should 
report sexual assault.
“If you don’t report it,” he 
said, “we can’t do anything.”ASSAULT,  from pg 1Survey found UF’s numbers were lower than national average UF journalism alumnus shares insight on storytelling Fate may be decided today
“It’s a statue honoring the 
dead. Obviously I’m not 
against that. I think that’s how 
it should be viewed.”
 Lee  Pinkoson
Alachua County Commissioner
A protestor holds up a sign, reading “Black Lives Matter, ” in 
front of the statue memorializing fallen Confederate soldiers from the Civil War on July 9. 
Alligator File Photo
SURVEY RESULTS
 About 20 percent of UF female undergraduates have experienced some form of sexual assault
 About 18 percent of non-heterosexual UF students have experienced sexual assault
 About 92 percent of the time, the sexual harassment offender was another UF student
 About 55 percent of national respondents said they thought fellow students would support the 
person reporting a sexual misconduct
 About 63 percent of national respondents said they thought campus officials would take a report 
of sexual misconduct seriously
Source: Association of American UniversitiesTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Courtney Grigsby
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next summer, students will be 
able to rent tents from a new De-
partment of Recreational Sports center.
The Center for Outdoor Recre-
ation and Education is currently being built and, when ﬁ  nished, students will be able to rent camp-ing and aquatics equipment, such as kayaks and camping backpacks. The center will also host workshops to teach students camping skills, said Jackie Matthews, the center’s 
coordinator.
Matthews estimates the addition 
will be ﬁ  nished by Summer 2016. 
The new building will be next to 
the Southwest Recreation Center, 
said David Bowles, the director of the Department of RecSports.
The new center will cost about 
$1.8 million to build, said Catherine 
Cramp, the associate director for 
programs at RecSports.UF’s Travel and Recreation Pro-
gram, more commonly known as UF TRiP, will expand and become a major feature to the new center, Matthews said. UF TRiP is an ex-isting program through RecSports where students guide one another on outdoor excursions.
UF TRiP leader Austin Schmitz 
said he is excited about the pro-gram’s expansion.
“I think all the RecSports facili-
ties, along with the new building, complete and promote the healthy and active lifestyle that is so impor-tant to UF students,” the 21-year-old UF biochemistry and molecular bi-ology junior said.
Matthews said she wants stu-
dents to experience nature by rent-ing equipment and participating in UF TRiP.
“We want to empower students 
to do things on their own,” Mat-thews said.
The current renting program is temporarily on hold until the new building’s completion.
Matthews said RecSports will be 
hiring students for the new center. 
The employees will serve as core 
associates and core supervisors, who will assist with the renting facility and direct guests to work-
shops, UF TRiP schedules and other 
outdoor information, Cramp said.  
Schmitz said his favorite part of 
the newly expanded UF TRiP is how it educates students.
“We have the opportunity to 
show students nature in ways that they may have never seen before,” he said.
New RecSports building to increase jobs, provide equipment
LOCAL
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Drivers looking to ﬁ  ll their gas tanks in 
Gainesville will being seeing lower prices for the foreseeable future.
Gas prices have dropped nationwide by a 
few cents each week during September, with 
national prices going under $3, according to 
data provided by the U.S. Energy Information Administration. It’s the result of crude oil pric-es falling and increased production, said Ted Kury, the director of energy studies at the Pub-lic Utility Research Center in the Warrington College of Business.
“The primary input for gasoline is crude oil, and crude oil prices have fallen rapidly since the summer of 2014,” Kury wrote in an email. “We produce, in this country...more oil than 
we did just ﬁ  ve years ago. More supply, all else 
equal, means lower prices.”
“In addition, on the consumer side, we use 
less gasoline in this country than we did 5 years ago, so demand is less,” he said. “Put them both together and you have lower gas prices.”
Kury said it is likely prices will go back up 
before summer, unless something changes in the international oil market.
The average price of gasoline in Gainesville 
is currently $2.19, according to the GasBuddy website.
“I drive from here to St. Augustine frequent-ly and like to ride my scooter whenever I can, so lower gas prices allows me to do these things without so much worry of how I will be able 
to afford it,” said Savannah Nuttall, 18, a UF 
health education and behavior freshman.
However, some people feel they aren’t af-
fected much by the dropping prices.
“I’m going to pay for gas regardless if it’s 
high or low because I need my car to run,” said Steven Younts, the manager of AutoZone on Northwest 13th Street.
“(Gas prices are) going to keep going from 
up and down like it has for the last 40 years,” Younts said. “People need to ﬁ  x their car, so they come in (to AutoZone) regardless of whether gas prices are low or high.” Gainesville gas prices decrease as part of national trendUF TRiP will be featured
“W e have the opportunity to 
show students nature in ways 
that they may have never seen 
before.” 
Austin Schmitz 
UF TRiP leader
National Average of 
Gas Prices in the third 
week of September
2010 - $2.78
2011 - $3.662012-  $3.942013 - $3.622014 - $3.492015 - $2.43The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Emmys? 
More like smellys
Ah yes, publicly broadcast award shows: A beautiful 
opportunity for those in the entertainment industry to pat themselves on the back for a job well done while 
simultaneously failing to recognize actual meaningful 
contributions to their respective mediums. The airing 
of the 67th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards this past Sunday meant it was television’s turn to take part in this time-honored 
tradition of circle jerking and manufactured accolades — al-
though, shout-out to Viola Davis for the historic win of Out-standing Lead Actress in a Drama Series for her role in “How to Get Away With Murder.” As predicted by outlets such as the L.A. Times and Time Magazine, the Academy opted to award 
Emmys based on popularity, rather than merit.
“Game of Thrones” — a show that leans on sexual assault 
as the sole narrative device used to “develop” the majority of 
its female characters — swept through the awards show in a 
manner akin to the White Walkers in Westeros. Despite air-
ing what many would agree was its worst season yet, “Game of Thrones” took home several awards in multiple categories such as writing, directing and acting. Although we are not privy to the mindsets and motivations of Academy voters, on 
the surface it seems as though the “Game of Thrones” sweep 
was due more to name-recognition, rather than actual excel-lence.
For the sake of example, let’s take a look at the Outstanding 
Supporting Actor in a Drama Series category. Peter Dinklage, who plays the beloved character Tyrion Lannister in “Game of Thrones,” edged out Jonathan Banks, who plays Mike Eh-rmantraut in “Better Call Saul,” for the win in the category. Dinklage — who it must be noted already won an Emmy for 
the role back in 2011 — has become a pop culture institution 
thanks to his role as Tyrion; however, you would ﬁ  nd few who’d claim the past season of “Game of Thrones” demon-strated his best work.
In contrast you have Banks, who has played Mike Eh-
rmantraut across two shows and six years, dating back to the second season ﬁ  nale of “Breaking Bad” in 2009. The episode Banks was nominated for, “Five-O,” was a masterful hour of television that ﬁ  lled in a backstory that had long been hinted 
at, but never fully illuminated. “Five-O” was a rarity for a be-
loved cable drama: a single hour anchored primarily by the performance of one man, rather than many. Banks’ perfor-mance in “Five-O” managed to simultaneously invoke empa-
thy and disgust from viewers, leaving nary a dry eye in the 
room as the episode concluded on a heartbreaking monologue from Banks. Then again, we guess the character of Mike Eh-rmantraut doesn’t generate as many Facebook memes or Tum-blr gifs as Tyrion.
There is no doubt Jonathan Banks was robbed of an award 
that was rightfully his, but he’s not the only one. As we men-tioned earlier, publicly broadcast award shows have never been, and likely never will be, general indicators for quality in 
a given artistic medium. They are entertainment meant to gen-
erate as much buzz (and as many viewers) as possible. While there is nothing wrong with trying to entertain the American public, viewers need to realize award shows like the Emmys, Grammys and (yikes) the VMAs are multi-hour distractions, 
not prestigious celebrations.While useful, studying abroad is not for everyone
In the last week alone, I’ve been asked if I’ve 
ever studied abroad on four separate occa-sions. Sadly enough, the answer has been 
“no” every time. Both of my collegiate sum-
mers have been spent interning and feeling 
jealous while stalking social media either here in Gainesville or back home in Palm Beach. Yet, 
nearly all of my friends have spent a semester 
or two gallivanting across the globe, whether in Madrid, Beijing or London, and all have returned claiming to be much worldlier than when they left.
This claim was typically supported by stories about 
clubbing in Ibiza, enjoying “chupitos” (Spanish for “shots,” according to Google Translate) and late-night stumbles through ancient cities. But I digress.
My lack of international experience stems from a variety 
of reasons. First, my mother has watched “Taken” one too many times — it may not be the most concrete reason, but it deﬁ  nitely hasn’t helped. I’ve also had a hard time con-vincing my parents, who worked full-time jobs just to put 
themselves through college, that spending a cushy summer 
in Europe is integral to my undergraduate experience…and rightfully so. It seems selﬁ  sh no matter how I phrase it, and they’ve heard too many horror stories about college kids 
blowing money on clubs and absinthe.
With that said, the cost of studying abroad is a real point 
of contention that can’t be ignored. A discussion in one of 
my classes blew up after an international student voiced concerns about how rarely Americans leave the country. 
The responses to this were deeply rooted in ﬁ  nancial obsta-
cles such as the cost of airfare, living expenses and study-abroad program fees. Considering the price tag of these pro-grams often reach ﬁ  ve ﬁ  gures, their concerns are extremely 
valid and have occurred to many, if not all, students inter-
ested in a semester abroad.If you’re going to study abroad for the low-
ered drinking age and easy A in your European Culture class, don’t do it. Do yourself a favor: 
Save some money and go to Midtown instead. 
The stereotype of culturally insensitive drunken college kids exists for a reason and doesn’t need to be perpetuated any further.
However, my unrelenting optimism leads 
me to believe very few students at UF would be shortsighted enough to fall into that category. Be-fore starting this column, I made sure to discuss 
the topic with a few friends who could give me the perspec-
tive I lacked — that is, someone’s who has actually studied 
abroad. Their feedback was overwhelmingly positive and centered around the idea that the experience is what you make of it. In the words of my best friend and former Bar-
celona expatriate: “You can’t just ﬂ  y to Europe and expect 
to automatically become worldly.”
In a world growing smaller by the day through tech-
nological innovations and corporate globalization, studying abroad can be advantageous if properly utilized. According 
to my very informal sources, this lies in actively learning 
about the culture, stepping out of your comfort zone and remembering what you’re there for. Don’t let the cheap sangria distract you and, for the love of God, make sure 
you go to a museum.
Sometimes this option isn’t particularly realistic depend-
ing on one’s schedule, ﬁ  nancial ability or priorities — and 
that’s OK. Working over the summer may not be as glamor-ous, but it’s deﬁ  nitely rewarding in its own grown-up way.
As far as this upcoming summer goes, you’re much 
more likely to ﬁ  nd me angrily ﬂ  ipping through an LSAT prep book at Coffee Culture than wandering through Ro-man piazzas, but, hey anything could happen.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
I am writing today in reference to 
an article that was run earlier this 
week about dropped charges on my 
record for possession of fake identi-
fication. While I am upset that after a long and successful career in the Student Senate this issue is only be-
ing brought up now during election 
season, I wanted to take the time to address many of the claims made in the article.
First and foremost, I want to take 
responsibility for my actions back in 2013 and apologize for the fact they now have taken the focus away from the issues really impacting students. 
As an 18-year-old freshman new to UF, I made a mistake. I knew better 
than to have possession of a fake ID. I would also like to point out I have 
always acknowledged these charges 
happened and were dropped. Going through the process of making sure my charges were dropped was an im-
portant learning experience and was 
an experience I shared with many of my peers so they would not make the same mistake. The charges being dropped, however, is what led to my 
confusion when I was confronted by a 
reporter from this paper saying I had charges on my record.
I walked away from that experi-
ence fully confident in my abilities to represent my constituents in the UF Senate and continue to do so to this day. I am excited for the opportunity 
to serve another term and hope this 
small indiscretion does not shake your confidence in me. I find it un-fortunate that dropped charges from 
years past are deemed newsworthy 
while leaders have lost focus of the real issues affecting students every day. It’s these issues I fight for as a student senator and, with your vote, 
it’s these issues I will continue to fight 
for as a senator in District C.
Sincerely,
Octavious Buiey
District C Senator
c02@sg.ufl.eduTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Oct. 3 marks a crucial date for more than 30,000 Americans: the expiration of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Com-
pensation Act.
It is named after former NYPD first 
responder James Zadroga, who died of a respira-
tory disease he likely contracted from the twin 
tower’s toxic, dust-ridden environment in the 
aftermath of 9/11. 
The Zadroga Act primarily ensures funding 
for health care programs that provide care for 9/11 responders and survivors, like the World Trade Cen-
ter Health Program.
“Why was this bill set to expire in the first place?” You 
may wonder. At first, the Zadroga Act failed to pass en-
tirely in July 2010. 
House Republicans stiffly opposed the original budget 
proposal (to be funded by the closing of a corporate tax loophole), and House Democrats feared public controver-sy so close to election season. In December 2010, when the act moved to the Senate, a stiff Republican filibuster 
nearly dashed all hopes.
Then, former “The Daily Show” host Jon Stewart re-
sponded to this congressional backlog by dedicating his 
entire Dec. 26, 2010 episode to the Zadroga Act. Stewart 
called out senators like Mitch McConnell and Jon Kyl for 
their dismissiveness, then hosted a sincere interview with four 9/11 responders.
Because of Stewart’s efforts, as well as those of New 
York senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Chuck Schumer, 
strong advocates and co-sponsors of the Zadroga Act, Con-
gress finally agreed to legislation consisting of a five-year commitment to Zadroga. 
In fact, former New York City Mayor Michael Bloom-
berg cited Stewart as “one of the biggest factors that led to the final agreement.”
All of this background raises some noteworthy ques-
tions: How do we know these health issues are directly related to the 9/11 aftermath? 
Why can’t these responders simply turn to their insur-
ance for health benefits?
We tend to focus our attention only on the fall of the 
towers, but the aftermath for many of these responders 
was just as grueling. 
First responder John Devlin noted on “The Daily Show” 
in 2010, “Almost 10 months, seven days a week, 24 hours 
a day, we were down there, breathing in all that toxic... like a thousand toxicities down there.” 
Furthermore, doctors of the WTC Health Program re-
port the rates of heart conditions, respiratory problems and cancers are shockingly high among these first re-sponders, many of whom were in good health and fitness 
before 9/11.  
On top of battling their health failures, these respond-
ers faced another uphill battle to get medical coverage. 
Many became unfit to work when their conditions de-
veloped, so they lost access to health insurance. 
As for workers’ compensation, insurance representa-
tives would contest whether these conditions were actu-ally work related or simply unfortunate coinci-
dences. 
The result: About 33,000 9/11 responders and 
survivors, nationwide, depend on the benefits provided by the Zadroga Act.
And the legislation is set to expire on Oct. 3.Starting Wednesday of last week, Jon Stew-
art, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand and hundreds of 9/11 first responders and supporters gathered on Cap-itol Hill to lobby Congress. 
Back in April, New York Rep. Carolyn Malo-
ney drafted a reauthorization and amendment of the Zad-
roga Act, which calls for extending the benefits of the act 
permanently.
“(Congressmen) tweet on 9/11 ‘never forget.’ Well, 
guess who they forgot?” Jon Stewart remarked last 
Wednesday in the halls of Congress. “I mean the discon-
nect is jarring and shocking… For the amount of money that they have wasted on adventures outside of this coun-try, it is, in context, very little money to give them the security that they need to fight the illnesses that they got 
on that pile.”
We the people are not helpless in the fight. 
Renew911health.org generated an efficient search en-
gine that displays which Congressmen have sponsored the Zadroga Reauthorization Act.
For our representatives here in Gainesville, only Sen. 
Bill Nelson is a sponsor. 
House representatives Ted Yoho, Corrine Brown and 
Senator and Republican presidential candidate Marco Ru-bio (also a UF alumnus) are not sponsors, nor have they communicated their reasons why.  
Phone numbers to the offices of each Gainesville con-
gressmen are listed below. If you wish, call our represen-tatives and advocate for the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act. 
I can personally testify on the ease of the calling pro-
cess, and with enough voices, we can contribute to a gen-uinely worthwhile cause.
In these next two weeks, remembering 9/11 is simply 
not enough. Scores of 9/11 responders and volunteers did their part to serve us. 
Now, it is our turn to serve them.Office of Marco Rubio: 202-224-3041
Office of Ted Yoho: 202-225-5744
Office of Corrine Brown: 202-225-0123David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.9/11 first responders deserve more than a hashtagColumn
David 
Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgLast Wednesday night, I, like many Americans, cozied 
up on the couch with a tub of popcorn to watch the second GOP debate, hosted by America’s most trusted news network, CNN. It was my night to have the TV,      and I wasn’t about to let the two affable bros with whom 
I share a flat box me out with the second season of “Burn Notice.” “This concerns the fate of our nation! Contrary to popular belief, Jeffrey Donovan does NOT take precedence tonight,” I bellowed. “Now go put some goddamn shirts on and lower the Daughtry.” And with that heroic stand, I was free to claim the living room and arrange my snacks while moderator Jake Tapper laid the ground rules for the debate.
The Emmy-worthy event included all candidates (save 
Rand Paul) regaling the crowd with war-hawk rhetoric and 
calls for the restoration and bolstering of the military-indus-
trial complex; a complex the current administration has failed to strengthen, giving only about $615 billion of the Federal budget for defense and international security assistance in 2014. Dr. Ben Carson’s stage time (that always coincided with me getting up for ice cream) and the tough questions like, “Who would you put on the $10 bill?” made for riveting viewing and would only come second in stirring fascination to The Donald’s convictions about autism-inducing vaccina-
tions.
Though for all the steadfast machismo (well done Mrs. 
Fiorina) and truth-telling in Wednesday night’s debate, there 
was ONE thing that I found myself in stiff disagreement with.
In response to a boisterous barrage from China’s best 
friend about how the presidency of George W. Bush was a “disaster,” former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush defended his broth-er’s presidency by way of political platitude, declaring, “He kept us safe.” A thunder of applause accompanied patriotic 
goose bumps, but facts were nowhere to be seen. I forget. 
When did George W. Bush “keep us safe”?
Was it during the time his administration (notably Condo-
leezza Rice) ignored urgent warnings from trusted resources two months prior to the Sept. 11 attacks about an increas-ingly disgruntled and capable Al-Qaeda? No, not that.
No, it was for sure the 2003 invasion and subsequent 
occupation of Iraq. That’s it. In subverting the reign of the despot Saddam Hussein and bringing freedom to the Iraqi 
people, 4,492 American lives would not “be safe” but instead 
be lost in the occupation (never mind Iraqi lives, we’re talk-ing about U.S. here). Wait, that’s not right — let me take one more shot at this.
Here we are: demonstrating a profound ignorance of the 
history and demographics of Iraq before, during and after invasion is when we were kept safe! Bush’s friendly rela-tionship with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki kept al-Maliki in power without an understanding of what that meant for the 
beleaguered nation. The initial de-Baathification of Iraq by 
al-Maliki that followed the removal of Hussein would be met with the first instances of insurgency. Later, as the Obama administration began to withdraw troops entirely, al-Maliki would enact anti-Sunni policies that would increase sectarian tension and set the stage for civil war and, subsequently, the rise of ISIL in the north. ISIL, who the American public now fervently fear from the comfort of their living rooms. Yeah, I’m not going to be able to do this.
Looking back at the facts, it seems as though President 
Bush did not keep America safe at home or abroad. Rather, it was he and his administration that laid the foundations for the most influential and successful faction of radical Islam to rise. Not content to stop there, the Bush administration saw it fit to undermine the Bill of Rights, in turn inspiring a mistrust and fear of the government by way of policies like The Patriot Act (a bipartisan policy that shamefully continues till this day under the current administration).
In the words of Vine superstar Nicholas Fraser, I ask: Jeb, 
why the f*** you lying? (Why?) You’re making it hard for me!
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe journalism junior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.Republican foreign 
policy: Fact or fiction?Column
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
“On top of battling their health 
failures, these responders faced 
another uphill battle to get 
medical coverage.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
of the Syrian crisis and other refugees 
from across the world. 
A blue banner on the Turlington 
staircase read: “No hate! No fear! Refugees welcome here!”
For Justin Baba, the ASA internal 
vice president, the vigil was an im-portant gesture to shed light on the crisis within the UF and Gainesville communities. The microbiology and cell science sophomore said he has family on his father’s side living on the rural side of Syria without elec-tricity and running water, relying on 
mostly a handful of wells to survive.
“It took a little boy to wash up 
ashore just to get the media in-
volved,” Baba said, referring to a 3-year-old who was found dead on the Turkish coast.
Baba said he was grateful for the 
students who attended the vigil and the meeting.
“It provides hope and a sense of 
unity,” the 19-year-old said.
David Hoffman, a UF history 
and physics sophomore, had seen the event on Facebook and wanted to learn about the crisis and pay his respects. 
“We’re all essentially one mind 
gathering together,” the 19-year-old 
said after the vigil. 
With a moment of silence, the 
vigil came to a close just after 8 p.m.
As the crowd dispersed, the only 
thing that remained were a few can-
dles — flickering and alone.VIGIL,  from pg 1‘No hate’
ABOVE:
Farah Khan, a member of the 
Radical Student Alliance and a 21-year-old UF English and women’s studies senior, lights a tea candle before the vigil. About 30 people held candles and stood together to show respect for ref-ugees around the world.
MIDDLE LEFT:
Rana Al-Nahhas, middle left, a 20-year-old UF psychology soph-omore, speaks during the vigil on Monday on Turlington Plaza. “How many more children need to wash ashore before the world does something?” she asked.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Catlin Cade, a UF school coun-seling graduate student, wipes her eye.  “I’m still in a moment of reflection, ” said the 23-year-old, who cried during the vigil.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Gainesville business owner Ju-dith Best, 61, and her daughter, an 18-year-old UF psychology and bassoon performance freshman Robin Best, stand together at the vigil. “As the oldest person here, I want to give you some motherly advice, ” Judith said to the group before urging students to vote and create political change.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffNicole Gomez / Alligator StaffNicole Gomez / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Nikki Nguyen, a 21-year-old UF sociology junior and Alpha Kappa Delta Phi sister, laughs with a friend while 
representing her sorority at the 2015 Asian Kaleidoscope Month opening ceremony on Monday night.   
By T aylor Maloney
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF biology freshman Naba Zabih 
walked through rows of tables high-
lighting Asian-American student or-ganizations Monday night.
“I feel like everyone should 
celebrate their culture and back-ground,” said the 18-year-old, who attended Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s opening ceremony in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
AKM was created to celebrate 
Asian American culture at UF. The 
opening ceremony kicked off the month’s festivities, which are host-ed by the Asian American Student Union. They will also host the Mr. and Ms. AASU Pageant, a fashion show and Asian food festival.
The events are a good way to 
“promote diversity on campus, re-
ally kind of...dispel stereotypes, rac-
ism,” said Vivian Nguyen, AASU’s executive director.
Student Government gives AASU 
about $35,000 to host the month’s events, said AKM’s ﬁ  nance director Mausam Trivedi, a 21-year-old UF hospitality and event management junior. Sponsors gave another $500 in donations and $250 in prizes. 
The events are free for UF stu-
dents and the Gainesville commu-nity, said Nguyen, a UF biochemis-try and food science and nutrition 
senior.
Give2Asia, which helps under-
privileged students in Asia, was 
announced as AKM’s philanthropy project at the ceremony. 
AASU will partner with other di-
versity groups on campus, like the Hispanic Student Association, Pride Student Union and Students Taking 
Action Against Racism.
At the opening ceremony, Stu-
dent Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines said she likes that multicul-tural organizations are partnering.
“It’s important for Student Gov-
ernment to help organizations put on events like this to celebrate cul-ture,” she said.
Zabih said it’s important to cel-
ebrate other cultures.  
“It’s awesome that we are a 
melting pot, but it’s good to stand out,” she said.Asian Kaleidoscope Month kicks oﬀ   at opening ceremonyTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE MID DECEMBER!2BR/2BA at The Laurels Apt, $940/mo through July 2016, 1 mo free! Will pay $50 app fee! Full size W/D in unit. Call Yvonne @ 407-489-9323    9-25-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-1398 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
TICK.TOCK.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring finishers. Performance based pay $10-$15 hr. Must have drivers license and weekend availabil -
ity. Apply online or in person. parkplacecar -
wash.com or 7404 NW 4th Blvd   9-25-15-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Value Cleaning Starting @ $59
Eco-Friendly Product Option
Well established company in Gainesville. 
Call or text 352-214-9597    9-22-15-5-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFlorida's volleyball team is embracing the team's depth, and it has led to success early in the season. Read the story on pg. 14. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Houston Rockets sign Chris Walker
Former Florida basketball player Chris Walker officially signed with the 
Houston Rockets on Monday.  The Bonifay native went undrafted after averaging 3.7 points and 2.7 rebounds per game in two seasons under former coach Billy Donovan. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier drops back to pass during Florida's 14-9 win against Kentucky on Saturday 
at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Will Grier had a chance to so-
lidify himself as Florida's starting 
quarterback for the rest of the sea-
son against Kentucky.
He drew his second consecu-
tive start against the Wildcats and instead of seizing the opportunity 
it slipped through his hands.
Florida head coach Jim McEl-wain said he has not decided on a permanent starter heading into 
a showdown with Tennessee on 
Saturday. This comes after a 14-9 road win against Kentucky where Grier took all 59 snaps.
McElwain said on Monday that 
people shouldn’t look too much into Grier going wire-to-wire as 
the quarterback and that the staff 
will continue to evaluate the posi-tion on a week-by-week basis with Treon Harris still in the fold.“Obviously Will went the 
whole game and don’t read any-thing into that as far as how this goes this week," McElwain said. 
“We’ll decide as we move for-
ward and that’s something we’ll 
talk about as we go.”
Grier had varying performances 
in each of the two halves against 
the Wildcats. 
The Davidson, North Carolina, 
native, got off to a good start in the ﬁ  rst half as he led the Gators to two touchdown drives. Grier was 8-of-12 passing for 94 yards and Still No Starter
JON BULLARD HAD TWO 
SACKS ON SATURDAY.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
After choosing to come back 
for his senior season, defensive 
lineman Jonathan Bullard is making his presence felt both in the trenches and off the ﬁ  eld for 
Florida.
Bullard recorded two sacks 
and nearly doubled his season 
total of tackles (seven before Saturday night) with ﬁ  ve against Kentucky, and was named the Southeastern Conference Defen-sive Line Player of the Week.
Head coach Jim McElwain 
was wowed by his performance but said the senior’s leadership has been even more impressive and is making a massive differ-ence for Florida’s entire defen-sive line.
“His day-to-day work habits 
are something that affect that whole group,” McElwain said. “It starts with Jon and what he’s do-ing in preparation. 
“It’s not the game. The game’s 
easy if you take care of today. And that’s what he’s really done.”
Defensive back Quincy Wil-
son also said Bullard has been impressive and has helped take pressure off the secondary, along with the rest of the defensive line.
Although Wilson is too fo-
cused on the receivers to notice during the game, Bullard has stood out to him on ﬁ  lm.“You can look back and see 
some of the plays by Bullard,” Wilson said. “He’s always in the 
backﬁ  eld.”
Special teams a concern: 
Missed ﬁ  eld goals, penalties 
and a lack of execution have 
plagued Florida’s special teams unit in 2015, and McElwain is particularly apprehensive about 
the kicking game after another 
poor performance Saturday night. 
“The missed ﬁ  eld goals are 
something that are starting to be-come a concern,” McElwain said. “I’ll be straight up.”
Austin Hardin's lone ﬁ  eld goal 
attempt against Kentucky — a 34-yard kick —  was blocked and 
McElwain attributed it directly to 
Hardin.
“The low trajectory — I mean 
it’s not like there’s a block issue in there as far as the schematics 
of protecting,” he said.
Hardin is three-of-six on ﬁ  eld 
goal attempts this season, with 
his longest successful attempt coming from only 37 yards out. 
Florida’s ﬁ  eld goal percentage 
ranks in a tie for 102nd nationally out of 128 teams.
Injuries:  Running back Case 
Harrison, wide receiver Chris Thompson and linebacker Jeremi Powell are all likely out for Sat-urday’s game against Tennessee, 
McElwain said on Monday.
Harrison has an ongoing Senior anchoring 
defensive line for UF
INSTAGRAHAM
After three games, the Gators are un-
defeated and looking to continue the winning streak against Tennessee 
on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. With the 
season a quarter of the way ﬁ  nished, 
here’s how each unit ranks following the ﬁ  rst Southeastern Conference game of the season.
Offense: C
No one expected the Gators to come out 
and score 70 points against any of their op-
ponents, but Florida has underwhelmed on 
offense through the ﬁ  rst three games. Redshirt freshman quarter-
back Will Grier seems to have a ﬁ  rm grasp on the starting role, but coach Jim McElwain has re-fused to rule out sophomore Tre-on Harris as a potential starter 
down the road. 
The inability to settle on a 
quarterback and develop offen-
sive consistency is holding the 
offense back from reaching its full poten-
tial. 
Florida’s running backs seem to be a step ahead of last season, and 
the Gators are throwing the ball 
downﬁ  eld with an increased fre-quency. 
But the offensive line isn’t 
where it needs to be, and Florida 
has failed to put its last two op-
ponents away. 
The Gators are capable of a lot 
more on offense. It’s time they 
started playing like it.
Defense: B+
Without question, the defense is far and away the best unit on the team. 
Vernon Hargreaves III missed the 
team’s 31-24 victory over East Carolina, but he looked back to full strength against  Kentucky when he intercepted quarterback Patrick Towles and sprinted 53 yards in the 
other direction.
The pass rush has been effective in 
pressuring the quarterback while the sec-
ondary has provided tight coverage that al-
lows the defensive line time to get into the 
backﬁ  eld. Grading the Gators: Evaluating the team's progress through three gamesSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311QBs remain under review “It starts with Jon and what 
he's doing in preparation.
Jim McElwain
UF football coach14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
CARLI SNYDER MISSED FOUR 
GAMES WITH AN ANKLE INJURY.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
You wouldn’t believe the depth Florida’s 
volleyball team has.
One starter, senior outside hitter Ziva 
Recek, is 5,000 miles away in Slovenia.
Another regular, sophomore outside hit-
ter Carli Snyder, is still nursing an injured 
ankle.
And to make matters worse, junior right-
side hitter Alex Holston had her worst game of the season.
Yet the No. 5 Gators still found a way 
to defeat then-No. 18 Seminoles on Sunday, showing just how talented their roster is.
Snyder, who injured her ankle Sept. 8, 
said it was sore prior to the match but still played through it. By the end of the 3-1 vic-tory, she said it didn’t hurt but joked that she might’ve been on an adrenaline high.
“I was a little nervous before the match 
because it was hurting,” Snyder said, “but 
I’ve been back in practice and they (her 
teammates) were very supportive and it ended up going great.”
Head coach Mary Wise opted to start 
Snyder, and it paid great dividends.
The sophomore from Macomb, Michi-
gan, compiled a double-double (11 kills, 12 digs) and scored 14 points in the win.
“That’s not Carli at full strength,” Wise 
said. 
“I thought it was a really gutsy perfor-
mance from her.”Then there’s Recek, who plays her first 
match for the Slovenia national team in the 2015 Women’s European Volleyball Cham-pionship Saturday against the Netherlands. She couldn’t be at the game Sunday.
But Recek’s face was still there, sort of.
Wise said a friend of Recek’s was Faceti-
ming her from the stands so that she could 
watch.
“We just didn’t feel it was fair to her to 
deprive her of that opportunity,” Wise said.Another problem for Florida on Sunday 
was Alex Holston’s play. Holston, UF’s star All-American, tallied seven kills and hit just .080 — her worst mark of the season.
“If we were a basketball team we’d say 
Alex didn’t shoot the ball particularly well,” 
Wise said after the game. “And she has car-
ried us literally for two years. She’s allowed to have an off shooting night.”
With a depleted and damaged roster, 
Wise had to play some cards she wouldn’t normally use.  
Senior outside hitter Gabby Mallette 
stepped up when her name was called. She slammed 10 kills and added four total blocks.
Mallette has seen her role and playing 
time increase since Snyder’s initial injury.
“She’s handled it just like all the other 
players have handled it,” Wise said, “and understanding that we are the best we can be in combination and collection of all the talents, and that sometimes you have to get out of your comfort zone.”
Another player who looked relaxed a 
little bit out of her comfort zone was senior 
middle blocker Simone Antwi.
Antwi led the Gators with 14 kills and 
hit a team-high .542 while adding five total 
blocks.
With the roster the way it was, Wise 
opted to get the ball to Florida’s middles, Antwi and Rhamat Alhassan, who didn’t disappoint. The two combined for 26 kills and 15 total blocks.
Although it was just one match, albeit a 
big one versus rival FSU, it illustrated just how talented and deep the Gators are this year.
As UF opens up Southeastern Conference 
play Friday against Ole Miss, a win with ad-verse conditions just might have been what Florida needed to gain some steam.
Wise said she and her team don’t discuss 
the prospects of once again going undefeat-ed in SEC play after doing so last year.   
“All we’re trying to do is be the best ver-
sion of ourselves each time,” she said. 
“Right now we’re undefeated, but so is 
everybody else.”Florida volleyball crediting early success to team’s depth
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Trust can not be taught nor 
can it be coached. 
It’s the uncoachable qualities 
such as trust that tend to separate the good teams from the great 
teams.
Unsurprisingly, Florida soccer 
coach Becky Burleigh has a sym-
bol for trust: a carabiner.
It’s an object Burleigh says has 
stood as one of the older forms of symbolism that she uses to help her team head in the right direc-tion.
Following Friday’s 4-1 win 
over Ole Miss, as part of the team’s “see the play, meet the person” program, juniors Gabby Seiler and Betsy Middleton gave out carabiners to the children in attendance.
They also provided words per-
taining to trust.
Seiler, a transfer from Georgia, 
spoke about being trust-willing.
The key to having the willing-
ness to trust someone is based on an open mindset.
“You have to open the carabin-
er,” Burleigh said. “So you have to open up to be trust-willing.”
Middleton, a Miami transfer, 
talked about being trustworthy.
“She was saying to the kids, ‘if 
you’re climbing a rock, a really high rock, with one of these on, do you want it to work 100 per-cent of the time or just 50 percent of the time?” Burleigh said.
“Betsy said, ‘well that’s the 
same with our team, we want to have each other’s back 100 per-cent of the time’”
Burleigh noted that trustwor-
thiness works in correlation with reliance.
The reliability factor is one 
that came into play when prepar-ing for the No. 12 Gators’ 6-1 win 
on the road at Florida Interna-
tional.
Burleigh texted the team’s 
leadership group on the bus to Miami, asking them what they felt the game required of them.
They had the answers that 
made Burleigh believe that they were “equipped for the moment.”
As a result, Burleigh gave the 
tactical information to the team — to prevent FIU from solving their own problems early in the game — and let the leaders pre-pare the rest of the players men-tally and emotionally.
Forward Savannah Jordan and 
goalkeeper Val Tysinger empha-sized the need for urgency and a 
quick start against the Panthers.
The team rose to the occasion, 
scoring inside the first ten min-
utes en route to a 6-1 thrashing in South Florida.
But trust isn’t isolated to just standing as a team attitude.
After struggling to score in 
Florida’s first four games, ju-nior forward Brooke Sharp has emerged as one the team’s most reliable players in the offensive third.
In the five-game span since, 
Sharp has scored six goals, in-cluding two game-winners. 
The first game-winning goal 
came in the first game of the span, as she scored with just 20 seconds remaining in overtime in a 3-2 win over Oklahoma State. 
With the second one coming 
in a 4-1 win against Ole Miss on Friday. 
The Ponte, Vedra native, came 
into the season scoring just five 
goals in her first two seasons.
Burleigh credits Sharp’s turn-
around with self-trust.
“She’s willing to shoot, she’s 
done a really good job of protect-
ing the ball for us and keeping possession when we need to or in the middle third,” Burleigh said. 
“She’s also willing to take 
more risks in the final third.”
Self-trust goes a long way in a 
sport like soccer. 
All eyes are on the player with 
the ball, and it can be a lot of pressure when the actions of the other 21 players are dependent on the ball handler.
“That self-trust that she has 
has led her to not be afraid of the outcome, and go for it,” Burleigh said.
“And provides some results for 
her.”Trust each other, the Gators mustAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF outside hitter Carli Snyder swings for a kill during Florida’s 3-1 win against Florida 
State on Sunday in the O’Connell Center. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh puts her arm around defender Rachelle Smith following Florida’s 3-2 win against FSU on Aug. 30.
“That self-trust that she has, 
has led her to not be afraid of 
the outcome, and go for it.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coachadded 36 yards rushing, including 
a 1-yard touchdown run on Flori-da’s second drive of the game.
During Florida’s second touch-
down drive of the game, Grier was 4-for-4 passing for 44 yards and also added seven rushing yards. 
The 10-play, 57-yard drive was 
capped off by Kelvin Taylor, who found the end zone from three yards out, and UF went into the locker room with a 14-3 lead and 
all the momentum.
However, the second half was a 
much different story for Grier and 
the offense.
The redshirt freshman went a 
subpar 5-of-10 for 31 yards and an interception, and he also coughed the ball up for the second time in three games.
Florida’s offense stalled and 
lacked continuity, allowing Ken-tucky to hang around. 
McElwain said he thought 
about inserting Harris during the 
second half to have a change of 
pace.
“We’re gonna play the way we 
play it,” McElwain said. 
“We just felt like in the last 
game, (with) Treon, we had some opportunities where maybe we should have put him you know, that’s the way it goes. We kinda 
get a feel for it and that’s what we 
talked about and yet there’s some things we really gotta work on that position.”Harris, who got the bulk of the 
snaps in the fourth quarter dur-ing the Gators’ second game of the season against East Carolina 
on Sept. 12, waited idly by on the 
sidelines against UK for a chance to get into the game.
It never came.
McElwain said before the game 
that it was important to ride the 
hot hand and have either of the quarterbacks develop a rhythm. 
Wide receiver Brandon Pow-
ell said while it’s important for a quarterback to develop a rhythm, he’s comfortable with either Grier or Harris taking snaps.
Powell added that the offense 
has to become more consistent and correct the mistakes they made.
“Anything that we can fix, 
we’re going to fix it,” Powell said. “We’ve just got to come this week, look at the film, put it behind us. You’ve just got to get better every 
day.”
With Grier leaving the door 
open for Harris to get some am-
ple playing time this week during practice, McElwain said Harris will 
have an opportunity to prove him-
self so he can receive some play-ing time against the Volunteers.
He’ll just have to take advan-
tage and be ready if he’s called upon.   
“He’s a true team guy, McEl-
wain said. “Obviously disappoint-ed and yet, you know what, he’ll 
prepare, he’ll be ready and we’ll 
see what happens this week.”
thumb injury and was “getting his thumb 
screwed together today or tomorrow.”
Thompson suffered a back injury against 
Kentucky and was carted off to the locker 
room, and Powell injured his foot and had to leave the game after walking off on his own power.
Tight end C’yontai Lewis’ status against 
Tennessee is uncertain. The redshirt fresh-man injured his hand during practice last 
week and did not travel with the team to 
Lexington, Kentucky.
Meanwhile, linebacker Alex Anzalone’s 
prognosis for the season sounds grim.
McElwain said Anzalone, who suffered a 
torn labrum in 2013 and reinjured the shoul-der, likely won’t play this week, adding omi-nously, “I think that’s one that we’re going to have to look at for a while.”
Florida vs. Ole Miss:  Florida’s Oct. 3 
matchup against Ole Miss kickoff at either 7 or 7:30 p.m., depending on which network televises the game — ESPN, ESPN2 or the SEC Network. 
The contest will be the Gators’ fourth 
night game in five games.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris stands on the sidelines during Florida's 
14-9 win against Kentucky on Saturday at Commonwealth Stadium. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF kicker Austin Hardin converts an extra point attempt during Florida's 14-9 win against Kentucky on Saturday at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13Hardin has 
missed three 
field goals FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Harris didn't play against KentuckyWOMEN'S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
When freshman Sam Wagner 
joined the women’s golf team, 
head coach Emily Glaser prob-
ably figured it would take her 
a couple tournaments to get in rhythm. 
But Wagner didn’t just get 
into rhythm on her first day of the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Championships. 
She composed a masterpiece. In just her second college 
tournament, the freshman sits near the top of the leaderboard, tied for second at 5-under par through 36 holes. 
Wagner finished her first 
round at the Cherokee Country Club at 4-under, highlighted by an eagle on the par-5 11th hole. 
She never faltered in her sec-
ond 18, making a birdie and 17 pars to finish the round with a 1-under 70.
“I thought Sam did a great 
job today,” Glaser said in a re-lease.
“She was sharp in the first 
18, and on the second 18 she did a fantastic job of staying patient 
when not quite as many putts 
fell.
“The more she competes in this environment, the more she comfortable she will get, and it’s 
exciting to watch.”
As a team, the No. 22 Gators 
ended the first two rounds at 
5-over par and in 5th place out 
of the 14-team field. 
Kent State (-6), Iowa State 
(-4), Tennessee (-1), and Ohio State (+4) lead the tournament. 
Kent State’s Taylor Kim holds 
the individual lead at 6-under, 
followed by Wagner and N.C. 
State’s India Clyburn, who begin 
the third and final round today tied for second place.
"I thought we did a lot of 
things well today, but overall we 
made too many mistakes to be 
really competitive," Glaser said. 
"This course can wear on 
you, but, with a little more pa-
tience, I know we are capable of 
much more."Freshman thrives in 
UF's first two rounds  
“She made some great 
adjustments from last week 
in Charleston that I believe 
served her well today. The 
more she competes in this 
environment, the more she 
comfortable she will get, and 
it’s exciting to watch.”
Emily Glaser
UF women's golf coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015
UF’s defense is one of the best in the na-
tion, and the only thing keeping it from re-
ceiving an ‘A’ grade is the 24 points given 
up to the Pirates.
Special Teams: D+
Based on his performance throughout 
the early going, I’m sure Austin Hardin 
wishes he could have a do-over when it 
comes to kicking field goals. The redshirt 
junior has missed three in the last two games, and fans are calling for his replace-ment. 
They have good reason to. Hardin has 
missed three straight field goals dating back to UF’s game against East Carolina, and he entered the year having made just 11-of-22. 
Florida is leaving points on the board 
with Hardin, and the Gators may look else-where soon. To Hardin’s credit, the majori-ty of his kickoffs sailed out of the end zone for touchbacks. 
He has a powerful leg, but he needs to 
use it effectively. UF’s punt unit still has some kinks to work out. The Gators were whistled for an illegal punting formation 
against the Wildcats, which McElwain at-
tributed to the inexperience on the roster. 
On a positive note, freshman Antonio 
Callaway displayed an ability to return punts after taking one 37 yards. He should 
be taking punt return duties off Harg-
reaves’ hands for the rest of the season.MVP: Jarrad Davis
Let’s be honest: the linebacker unit has 
struggled due to a combination of injuries and inexperience, but junior Jarrad Davis 
has been exceptional. 
His speed helps him get to the ball car-
rier quickly, and it shows: Davis has com-
bined for 22 tackles over UF’s last two 
games. 
Antonio Morrison came into the season 
as the consensus top linebacker, but Davis 
is becoming more than just a prominent contributor. 
He could soon be one of the leaders on 
defense.
The Biggest Disappointment: 
Demarcus Robinson
Demarcus Robinson has disappeared for Florida, and it’s one of the reasons the 
Gators have been mediocre on offense. 
Robinson was a revelation last season 
as a sophomore, and his breakout game 
came against none other than Kentucky. 
He had 15 catches for 216 yards and two 
touchdowns as the Gators downed the Wildcats 36-30 in triple-overtime. 
But in this year’s matchup, Robinson 
was a non-factor. 
He had a meager three catches for 16 
yards on Saturday, not exactly numbers you want from your supposed No. 1 wide receiver. UF’s offense needs Robinson to 
be a threat to give the team more playmak-
ers, and it won’t happen until he stops taking off for the sidelines every time he catches a pass. COLUMN,  from pg 13