We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 25 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
UF volleyball downed by Kentucky
The Gators lost their ﬁ  rst SEC match in 
more than a year, pg 16.
Domino’s to introduce new pizza theater show
It will be the ﬁ  rst in the country, pg. 3
UF student takes thrifting business to Gator 
games
He restores vintage Gator apparel, pg. 8Harn throws 25th birthday bash
Check out the story and photos, pg. 9
TENNESSEE 27 FLORIDA 28
WHERE THERE’S A WILL
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Antonio Callaway took off for 
the endzone and sprinted 63 yards 
down the ﬁ  eld into the arms of his 
mother, Sabrina.
The freshman from Miami had 
just scored one of the unlikeliest, 
game-changing touchdowns Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium had ever seen.
Florida’s comeback victory over 
Tennessee (2-2, 0-1 Southeastern Conference) was improbable, and 
seemingly everyone in attendance 
knew it. The fans grew cautiously 
optimistic when redshirt freshman 
quarterback Will Grier hit wide re-
ceiver Brandon Powell for a 5-yard 
touchdown to pull the Gators with-in just a touchdown.
But it was Callaway’s catch on 
fourth down and 14 yards to go 
with 1:26 remaining that brought 
the crowd to a roar and gave ﬁ  rst-year Florida coach Jim McEl-wain his ﬁ  rst statement victory in 
Gainesville.
Unsure after the game whether 
the Gators (4-0, 2-0 SEC) deserved 
to win or not, McElwain said the victory surmises a sentiment the 
team holds to be true, deservedly 
or not.“You just don’t lose to Tennes-
see,” McElwain said. “And they didn’t.”However, in staying true to 
McElwain’s mentality, it’s on to the 
next game.
Now, the Gators must face a 
No. 3 Ole Miss team that is argu-ably the best to ever emerge out of Oxford, Mississippi.
“We got a lot of things to work 
on, going into next week, a lot of 
things to build off of,” Grier said. 
“Got this win, now we’re onto Ole Miss. Gotta prepare and be better 
next week to beat that team.”
Grier is correct that Florida must 
be better to beat the Rebels, be-
cause a performance similar to Sat-urday’s against the Vols won’t be 
enough to beat a Mississippi team 
that comes into Gainesville averag-
ing 54.8 points per game while al-
lowing just 19.3.
The Rebels went into Tusca-
loosa, Alabama, on Sept. 19 and 
handed then-No. 2 Alabama a 
shocking 43-37 defeat in front of 
a stunned crowd of 101,821, most 
of them Alabamians who couldn’t believe Ole Miss had just beat the Crimson Tide for the second time in as many seasons. 
While nowhere near the high 
the Rebels are riding, the Gators can relish in knowing the victory over Tennessee was the second largest fourth quarter comeback in Florida football history.
You would have to go back to 
1986, when former Gators quar-terback Kerwin Bell led a fourth-quarter comeback to turn a 17-0 UF Tested Gators prepare for Ole Miss
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier throws a pass to wide receiver Antonio Callaway during the second half of Florida’s 28-27 win against T ennessee on Saturday. 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Heaven gained an angel. That was the 
consensus at a memorial service Friday 
morning.
UF students and faculty celebrated 
the life and loss of UF sophomore Kayla McAleer. 
The Baughman Center by Lake Alice 
became a place for goodbyes, Kleenexes and hugs for about 100 people during the memorial service.
“There must be borrowed angels, here 
in this life,” the service program read. 
“They come along, into this world, and make this world bright. But they can’t 
stay forever ‘cause they’re heaven sent. And sometimes, heaven needs them back again.”
Throughout the memorial, Father Da-
vid Ruchinski of the St. Augustine Church and McAleer’s father called the 19-year-old an angel.
The UF occupational therapy student 
passed away Sept. 11 from complications related to a rare congenital heart defect. 
McAleer’s father, Matthew McAleer, 
said she had multiple heart surgeries, the first when she was just 3 days old. 
Despite health issues, McAleer devoted 
her life to helping others, he said.UF says goodbye to an angelCAMPUS
A CASHIER REPORTEDL Y 
STOLE $1,000. 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Authorities arrested two men during Satur-
day’s football game, including a cashier who 
reportedly stole from a concession stand and a Tennessee fan who reportedly became too impassioned.
About 4:20 p.m., during the UF 28-27 win 
over the University of Tennessee, Samuel Turner, 27, reportedly staggered outside the stadium, ﬂ  ipped both middle ﬁ  ngers up and screamed, “F--- you,” according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce report.
“I can deﬁ  nitely tell you that I was not 
the only person that was ﬁ  red up or yelling,” Turner said.
He walked away before returning three 
minutes later as his girlfriend cried behind him. Turner then walked into the hand of an 
ofﬁ  cer who stopped him from entering the stadium, according to the report.
The deputy sat Turner 
on a curb before talk-ing to his girlfriend, who 
said Turner was drunk on 
moonshine and angry that 
someone insulted Tennes-see, according to the report.
She said Turner was acting out of character 
and pleaded for the ofﬁ  cer to calm him down, according to the report.
“I probably should have taken more pre-
caution to not put myself in a poor situation,” 52 ejected, 4 arrested at game
SEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 4 SEE GAME,  PAGE 4LastName
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Malcolm X
Ilyasah Shabazz, the daugh-
ter of the late Malcolm X, will 
speak at 3 p.m. today in the 
Ocora in Pugh Hall. She will be discussing her book, "Growing Up X," which is a nonfiction ac-
count of her father’s life before 
he joined the Nation of Islam.
Coming Out Kinky: A Grown Up 
Comedy
This comedy follows one ad-
venturous woman’s curious exploration of her sexual-ity. “Coming Out Kinky” has 
female-empowering and sex-
positive messages, including learning to make good choices and trusting the wisdom of one’s own body. Young wom-
en will recognize themselves 
as Jean Franzblau finds solid footing across the uneven ter-rain of sexual experimenta-
tion and expression. The show 
is certainly R-rated and will be shown Wednesday from 8:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. in Ustler Hall Atrium. For more infor-
mation, go to facebook.com/
events/958752354171288/.
5K Walk to Eliminate Health 
DisparitiesInterested in raising awareness about health disparities while exercising and having fun? The UF Health Disparities Research 
and Intervention Program (Dr. 
Carolyn M. Tucker, Director) and Suwannee River Area Health Education Center (Ms. 
Sarah Catalanotto, Executive 
Director) are sponsoring a 5K walk called 2015 Walk to Eliminate Health Disparities: Walking to Promote a Healthy 
Weight on  Oct.10. There will be 
free prizes and healthy snacks. All are welcome to register in advance at tx.ag/5KWalk free of charge.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your 
friends to its bi-weekly les-
sons/dances every Monday and Friday. The club has free lessons for beginners and intermediates, 
which are open to everyone. 
Monday nights, the club is at the Reitz Union Breezeway, 655 Reitz Union Drive,  with 
lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
and social dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday nights they are at the Unified Training Center, 809 W University Ave., 
with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 
p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. If you have any questions or would like to get 
involved, please find the club 
on Facebook at facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/. 
Talking Gators meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031 at 970 
Natural Area Drive, east of the 
Harn Museum. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking 
Gators, go to talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page.Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-
tidisciplinary clinic at the UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. The program provides free and confidential legal representa-tion, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigration and restraining orders for protection against 
domestic violence. The pro-
gram also has a social worker 
who specializes in intimate 
partner violence and provides 
counseling to clients. Lastly, 
the program’s victim advocate 
helps with navigating the legal 
system and providing valuable 
community resources. If you or 
anyone you know wish to con-
tact the clinic, please call 352-
273-0805 or email drake@law.
ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 25
HIGH  82° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith,   
                                                                                                             Jessica Gonzalez
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
IT WILL BE THE FIRST IN 
THE COUNTRY.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Gainesville residents will soon be 
able to catch a behind-the-scenes look 
at their pizza.
After reviewing requests on social 
media, Gator Domino’s on Archer 
Road will open the ﬁ  rst pizza theater 
store in the nation Oct. 5, allowing cus-tomers to watch their pizzas go from raw dough to a steamy, cheesy pie.
Franchise owner Freddie Wehbe 
said he is working to make this Domi-no’s like no other in the world.
The 20-year-old restaurant has 
been under renovation since last year.
The store has also added indoor 
seating for 44 people, outdoor seating for 38, Wi-Fi inside and outside of the store and plug-in stations at every ta-ble, which was requested by students in a focus group, he said. The store is also extending its hours to 4 a.m.
He wanted to turn it into a family-
friendly sports bar, complete with tele-visions where people can watch Gator football games.
“The change comes from a passion 
to be No. 1,” Wehbe said. “It’s a com-petitive thing.”
Wehbe said the two biggest re-
quests for the store were a family-fo-
cused atmosphere and a sustainable 
store. 
Consequently, Wehbe said, he 
added a community room to the store, one that has already been booked for nine birthday parties so far and uses eco-friendly products.
He declined to comment on the cost 
of the renovation.
Some students said they thought 
the changes were exciting, but the lo-cation still isn’t ideal.
“I think it’s going to bring a lot of 
people, but not for pizza,” said Jordene West, 17, a UF accounting freshman. “If the bus doesn’t go there, I won’t.”  Domino’s to introduce 
new pizza theater show
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
UF soil and water science pro-
fessor Sabine Grunwald practices 
mindfulness everywhere, even in her ofﬁ  ce. She keeps her yoga mat stashed underneath her desk.
“Mindfulness is a non-judge-
ment focus on what’s happening (in your life),” she said.
Grunwald paved the way 
for the UF Mindfulness project, which kickstarted with a medita-tion ﬂ  ash mob Thursday. Today, the ﬁ  rst-ever UF Mindfulness Day will be celebrated in Library East, 
Room 100. The project is a cam-
puswide initiative to bring mind-fulness to courses, programs and trainings, she said.
Today’s events will offer stu-
dents and faculty a space to med-itate and learn about becoming mindful, Grunwald said.
“Mindfulness relates to how we understand ourselves as a part of life and humanity,” she said.
The events start at 8:20 a.m. 
and will focus on meditating, which relieves stress and beneﬁ  ts your health, said Nancy Lasseter, a licensed mental health counsel-
or and a wellness educator for the 
UF Health Shands Hospital Inte-grative Medicine Program.
“You can train your mind to be 
happier and move away from the negativity that we get entrenched in,” she said. “(Meditating) trains one how to deal with the dire wealth of negativity and suffering 
and pain that’s out there.”
Those participating do not 
need any prior experience before 
attending today’s events. Lasse-ter, who will be guiding two me-diations, said she encourages stu-dents to participate even if they feel intimidated.
In the morning, attendees can 
learn the beneﬁ  ts of meditation and the basics of mindfulness, Grunwald said. Later in the day, students can listen to keynote speaker Michael Singer, a spiri-
tual teacher.
“Hopefully by walking into the 
door and opening your mind, you 
might ﬁ  nd something there that’s useful for you in your life,” Las-seter said.
UF psychology and women’s 
studies alumna Lizzie Lunior will lead a guided meditation. The 22-year-old said she is hopeful the program’s implementation 
will make students less stressed.
“In a lot of ways, this is the 
future,” she said. “(Our world 
and its surroundings are) the raw material to be inspired by and become the change we want to see.”  UF project encourages mindfulness
It will be campuswide
“You can train your mind to 
be happier and move away 
from the negativity that we 
get entrenched in.”
Nancy Lasseter
mental health counselor 
and wellness educator4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
In between student-organization 
tables on Turlington Plaza, UF senior 
Manny Rutinel shed his polo shirt for a pink pig onesie.
On Friday morning, Rutinel, a UF 
microbiology and economics student, waved, shouted and danced the Nae Nae in front of a sign that read “Free Hugs,” in honor of Hug a Vegan Day.
The event, hosted by UF’s Student 
Animal Alliance, promoted animal rights and cruelty-free living, said Christina Bicknell, SAA president. It showed students that vegans are in-
viting, rather than radical activists, 
the 21-year-old said.
While Rutinel gave about 50 free 
hugs, Bicknell, a public relations se-nior, handed out ﬂ  iers and stickers supplied by peta2, PETA’s youth branch. 
“The idea that our food has a big 
effect on our environment is what 
society is paying attention to right 
now,” she said.
Last year, SAA celebrated the day 
for the ﬁ  rst time. They gave students a Chihuahua to hug on the Plaza of the Americas, Bicknell said.
This year, the group wanted to try 
something new, so they put Rutinel in a pig outﬁ  t, she said.
“When you have someone in cos-
tume, it’s more inviting,” said Bick-nell.
Rutinel, who’s been a vegan for 
two years, said he was excited.
“I managed to be more ecstatic 
and enthusiastic behind the mask,”   Rutinel said.  Keeping it kosher with vegan hugs
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Brandie Ratliff drove an hour 
and a half to buy a new iPhone on Friday, with two toddlers in tow.
“We got straight in the car,” 
she said. “I didn’t give them break-
fast.”
At ﬁ  rst, Ratliff and her daugh-
ters went to the AT&T store in their 
home city, Palatka, but the phone Ratliff wanted — the new Apple iPhone 6s Plus — wasn’t in stock there, she said.
So, she drove down to Archer 
Road, and by 11:30 a.m., she had 
a rose gold iPhone 6s Plus in her 
purse.
On Friday, Apple released its 
latest line of iPhones, the 6s and the 6s Plus, to store shelves around the globe, boasting faster speeds and a crisper camera among other improvements.
“Our customers are very satis-
ﬁ  ed with the new experience and with the launch,” said Karen McAl-lister, an AT&T spokeswoman.
However, in Gainesville, the 
hype didn’t compare to last Sep-tember when the iPhone 6 was released.
According to a sales associate 
at Best Buy, 100 people came by 
the store on the ﬁ  rst day in 2014 to 
buy the new phone. But this year,  with only four or ﬁ  ve people wait-ing outside when the store opened at 8 a.m., the employee expected 
less than 50 people to come.
Vincent Adison had set his 
alarm for 6 a.m., hoping to beat 
the crowds and buy himself a new phone, but the 22-year-old missed his mark by about 6 hours.
By noon, when Adison actually 
woke up, the AT&T and Best Buy stores at Butler Plaza no longer 
had the 6s Plus model he wanted, 
but he still needed a new phone.
“My phone was malfunction-
ing,” the New York University graduate said Friday. “So I just got the regular 6s, and I’m actually sat-isﬁ  ed with it.”
Despite the buzz over the new 
phones, some aren’t interested.
Denise Chirila, a UF marketing 
graduate student, was due for an iPhone upgrade Friday, but de-cided instead to opt for last year’s model, which she says is cheaper and still effective.
“I don’t really care for new 
technology,” the 21-year-old said. “I just want a non-cracked phone.”Lukewarm debut 
for iPhone in GNV
he said.
Turner said fans of both teams created a 
hostile environment, and drinking led him to 
make regrettable decisions.  
“If this had happened in Tennessee, then 
you might be talking to a Florida fan right now,” he said.
Police arrested Turner for disorderly con-
duct and took him to the Alachua County Jail, 
where he was released Saturday night on a 
$500 bond.
Two hours later, Michael Sharpe, 20, report-
edly stole $1,000 while on the job, according to a University Police report. A Centerplate Con-cessions employee called police after watch-ing Sharpe take money from a register twice, according to the report. Authorities found two $100 bills and 40 $20 bills in Sharpe’s pocket 
before arresting him for larceny. Police took 
Sharpe to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains without bond.
Sharpe was one of four people UPD arrested 
during the football game. UPD also ejected 52 people, 20 of whom were students. No students were arrested, according to a police report.
Twenty-ﬁ  ve ejections were reasons for dis-
orderly conduct, followed by nine for alcohol 
possession, eight for intoxication, ﬁ  ve for sit-
ting in the wrong section, three for not having a ticket, one for smoking and one for standing on a seat. Two arrests were listed as trespassing after a warning, one for battery and another for battery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer.
GAME,  from pg 1Of the 52 people who were ejected from the game, 20 were students  
People knew Kayla 
McAleer was sympathetic and 
would listen, said Jacqueline 
Guthart, a friend of Kayla 
McAleer’s since their fresh-man year Fall semester. 
Her favorite memory was 
when she turned around to see her friend in a group hug with two humongous strang-ers.
“I’m not really sure how 
or why they were in a group hug, and she didn’t really know either, but we laughed on the way home,” Guthart 
said, laughing. 
Guthart spoke about her 
memories with her, occa-
sionally pausing to hold back tears.
“When I see chocolate, I 
think about the time when we went to a drugstore to get gum but came out spending 
$16 on Kinder Eggs and Cad-
bury chocolate,” the 19-year-
old UF finance sophomore 
said. “Everywhere I go, I’m constantly reminded.”
Before the service, UF 
President Kent Fuchs went up to the family to shake their 
hands and offer condolences. 
He spoke at the memorial 
to the McAleer family and UF 
students.
“I know she was a wonder-
ful person,” Fuchs said. “We 
can still celebrate her life.”
Her father said Kayla was 
nervous before her first week 
at UF but quickly found her 
place.“One day I called her and 
she said, ‘Daddy, you’re not 
going to believe it — I have a crew,’” Matthew McAleer said, laughing.
UF is currently in the 
process of awarding Kayla McAleer an in-memoriam de-gree from the College of Pub-lic Health and Health Profes-
sions, said Jen Day Shaw, the 
associate vice president and dean of students. 
A fund created on YouCar-
ing to help Kayla McAleer’s parents has raised more than $7,500 as of press time.
Matthew McAleer said he 
was thankful for the support 
of the university and friends.
“The void of missing Kayla 
will never be filled,” he said.MEMORIAL,  from pg 1UF to give an in-memoriam degree
Kennita Whitehead (left), a 19-year-old UF nursing sopho-
more, hugs Manny Rutinel, a 20-year-old UF microbiology and economics senior, who dressed in a pig costume for Hug a Vegan Day on Turlington Plaza on Friday. Student Animal Alliance hosted the event to advocate for animal rights.
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator“I don’t really care for new 
technology. I just want a 
non-cracked phone.”
Denise Chirila
UF marketing graduate student
Kayla McAleer, a former UF sopho-more, does the Gator Chomp on Nov. 4, 2014. The 19-year-old passed away on Sept. 11 due to complica-tions related to a rare congenital heart defect.
Courtesy to the Alligator“When I see chocolate, I think about the time when we went to 
a drugstore to get gum but came out spending $16 on Kinder 
Eggs and Cadbury chocolate. Everywhere I go, I’m constantly 
reminded.”
Jacqueline Guthart
UF finance sophomoreMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Emily Mavrakis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Although Wendy Wolf regularly 
runs three to four times a week, Sat-
urday’s inaugural World Heart Day 5K at Fred Cone Park in Gainesville held a special meaning for her.
“My stepsister has had quadru-
ple bypass surgery because of heart problems,” the 58-year-old said, call-ing the memory an emotional one.
She ran for her stepsister as one 
of 47 runners who registered to par-ticipate in the event held in recogni-tion of World Heart Day. 
While World Heart Day is cel-
ebrated Tuesday, Alachua County participated in the Florida De-partment of Health’s statewide 
World Heart Day 5K on Saturday 
to bring attention to heart disease, strokes and preventative measures. Gainesville joined 66 other counties, said Kourtney Oliver, the program coordinator for the FDOH’s Healthi-est Weight Florida initiative in Ala-
chua County.
“Most of the risk factors associ-
ated with heart disease and strokes 
are preventable,” Oliver said, and added that changes in lifestyle — in-cluding reducing tobacco use, main-taining a healthy diet and participat-ing in physical activities — are some of the key ways people can prevent 
heart issues.
Because the World Heart Day 5K 
included free registration, the focus 
of the event was more on promoting awareness of preventative measures rather than raising money, Oliver said.
“We’re taking extra efforts in 
these areas of prevention because 
we know the importance,” she said.
Prior to the start of the run, Oli-
ver encouraged runners to be aware 
about staying heart-healthy and to help promote the growth of the 5K in upcoming years.
“Our Healthiest Weight initiative 
and Tobacco Free Florida initiative are working very hard, and I encour-age you to check out our websites... for tools to share with yourselves and others,” she said.
Wolf said she enjoyed the run, 
which she discovered through her daughter.
“I wish more people knew about 
it,” she said.
Oliver said community involve-
ment was an important factor to promote the race and the FDOH ini-tiatives. Several of these organiza-tions, including Women, Infants and Children, or WIC, and Tobacco Free Florida had tables at the event and supplied information to the public 
by answering questions and hand-
ing out pamphlets.
“It’s very much a collaboration 
with our community,” Oliver said.Inaugural 5K promotes heart health
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator
Kourtney Oliver (center), the program coordinator for the Healthiest Weight Florida initiative in Ala-
chua County, runs in the inaugural World Heart Day 5K event at Fred Cone Park on Saturday. Forty-seven people registered to run to raise awareness for heart disease and stroke prevention.
SHE USED A ROCK AND A LIQUOR 
BOTTLE AS WEAPONS.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local student Satur-
day afternoon after she reportedly used a rock and a 
liquor bottle as weapons.
At about 1:30 p.m. Saturday, Alexis Bouie, 18, 
reportedly followed a group of people to one of their 
apartments after a confrontation, according to a po-
lice report.
She led her own group through the apartment’s 
metal gate and up to the front door, where a wom-an’s mother stood in the doorway, according to the report.
Bouie pushed into the apartment with her group 
and grabbed a nearby liquor bottle before throwing it across the room, according to the report.
The bottle shattered against a wall after almost 
hitting the mother, who told police she feared for her life, according to the report.
Police later found a medium-sized rock outside a 
window near the entrance, which Bouie threw either 
before entering or after leaving the apartment, according to the report.
Altogether, Bouie caused $500 in 
damages to the apartment.
A woman identified Bouie by 
name, and the mother pointed to her image on a six-photo lineup.
Bouie later told police she was at 
the apartment after the other group 
started a brawl — reportedly armed 
with a bat at one point.
She also said the window broke when someone 
pushed her into it, according to the report.
Bouie is listed as a student at 2802 NE 8th Ave., 
which is the address for Horizon Center Alternative School.
Police arrested Bouie on charges of aggravated as-
sault, burglary and property damage.
Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail 
where, as of press time, she remains in lieu of a $6,000 bond.Police arrest high school student
Bouie
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Republican fact checking needs to be more strict
C.J. Pearson, a 13-year-old online con-
servative activist, seems to be overly 
influenced by Fox News’ hateful rhet-
oric. It’s not wrong that he has de-
cided to take on political issues. How-
ever, I take umbrage with how he has been sensationalized.
From the right, Pearson has been hailed as 
an intelligent young man, and on the left, he’s seen as brainwashed. The fact is, he’s 13. At 13, it’s possible a large amount of one’s political views come from one’s parents, directly or indirectly. Like a 
sponge, Pearson might have soaked up the views of his 
parents and those around him, or he might be thinking completely independently. There is no way to know, but his activism shows how the Republican Party is gradually 
giving consideration to facts and more to sensationalism.
Pearson recently claimed that he was blocked from 
following President Obama on Obama’s Twitter account, 
@POTUS. Even if Obama were able to block Pearson on Twitter, I doubt he would. Pearson is already learning 
from the likes of Carly Fiorina, Donald Trump and those 
who would twist the truth to their liking —  whether it’s manufacturing information from a Planned Parenthood video or claiming Obama was born in Kenya. Pearson 
has also continued to further Islamophobic rhetoric, criti-
cizing Obama for inviting Ahmed Mohamed to the White House.
It’s good to be informed, even if you’re not yet of 
voting age. But if there were a 13-year-old progressive 
vlogger making scathing criticisms about the right, they 
wouldn’t even be dignified with a segment on a major news network. Factual errors on the campaign trail are looking less like genuine mistakes and more like at-
tempts to mislead.
As the Republican race turns into a bloodbath, the candidates are caring less and less about the 
facts, and the rallying around a conservative teenage vlogger is just one symptom of this. 
Instead, they’re resorting to tired arguments 
about liberal bias. The Republican candidates need to start talking concretely and backing up their claims with facts if they want to be taken seriously.
Ultimately, if one of them is elected presi-
dent, they will have to represent all people 
and make decisions based on facts, not just rumor and speculation. It’s disturbing when candidates like Trump 
continue to believe that Obama is not a U.S. citizen or 
that vaccines are dangerous. It’s clear the kind of policies and ideas that Republican candidates are pushing would be great for some, but not all Americans.
Eventually the tactic of spewing lies will come to 
backfire. Campaigning without regard for facts cannot continue. The inflammatory Planned Parenthood videos continue to be referenced by the candidates despite how misleading they are. Fiorina recently referenced a video 
where there is a fetus being kept alive in order to harvest 
its brain. 
The video did not actually exist, but that didn’t stop 
her PAC from creating one. In fact, most of the video was not linked to Planned Parenthood at all. Rubio claimed 
the women visiting Planned Parenthood for an abortion 
make some sort of profit.
These counter-factual statements are not just mis-
takes. Part of being a politician is having a carefully con-
structed appearance and putting more thought into what 
you say. It’s difficult to believe that the false statements Republican candidates are making are unrehearsed and not meticulously put together behind the scenes.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Alligator 
endorsement: 
Access Party
In the past, UF Student Government elections have been 
marked by how relatively uneventful they were. This changed with Access Party’s victory last Spring and has only been compounded by the emergence of the Impact Party — and the maybe-not-so-coincidental dissolving 
of the Swamp Party — this semester. The tension in the air has been palpable and a frequent topic of discussion in both the Alligator office and campus at large.
After much consideration, as well as meetings with rep-
resentatives from both parties, the Editorial Board of the Al-ligator has ultimately decided to endorse the Access Party.
With regards to their respective platforms, both parties 
make excellent proposals which would do a tremendous amount of good for UF’s campus, as well as for the experi-
ence of the Student Body. As a matter of fact, they over-
lap in a number of places: Both want to reintroduce the Walk Safe program and recognize it as a valuable source of safety for students. Both also want to bring a farmers market to campus, allocate funds to ensure the renovation of Norman Hall and the Music Building and create a student closet that would provide professional clothing for students who would otherwise not be able to afford such wear. All of these are objectively good proposals which we would like 
to see put into practice.
However, the ambitions of Access far surpass that of 
Impact, especially when considering UF’s long-term future. 
Much of Impact’s campaign has revolved around showing students immediate results; indeed, they have accused Ac-cess of intentionally slowing down proceedings in the Sen-ate in the name of partisan politics.
This assessment isn’t quite correct: All of the ambitions 
outlined in Access’ platform (both from last Spring and this 
Fall) are positive changes which take time to implement and 
will not be immediately visible to the Student Body. Most of the initiatives of this nature concern the financial burden placed on students. Given the democratic nature of SG as well as pre-existing legislation and the ever-present grind of bureaucracy, it will take years for these changes to take place. Regardless of the timeliness or lack thereof, we feel comfortable in asserting that these changes, such as work-ing to better compensate grad students, decreasing the SG 
fees in every student’s tuition and fighting to reform parking 
services, will only occur under an Access Party government.
Additionally, Access’ platform touches upon an aspect of 
governance which is critically neglected by Impact’s: com-prehensive representation. As good as Impact’s platform sounds, it neglects to advocate for better representation of minority demographics on campus, including LGBTQ+ students, minorities and international students. In contrast, this is an essential element of the Access platform.
Prominent universities like UF ought to embody the ide-
als of progress and forward-thinking. Although Impact has championed its platform as imminently accomplishable, it fails to strive for bigger and better things. Access Party’s ideals envision a higher standard for UF, even if we as stu-dents may not be around to see those ideals come to frui-tion. When the day comes that we become proud alumni, don’t we want to be able to say we helped enable UF to be the best it could be? It is for this reason we endorse Access 
for Tuesday’s and Wednesday’s election.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
This past January, the Alligator 
published an article about the UF School of Music building and its 
desperate need for repair and reno-
vations. Though its faculty and stu-
dents have long called for changes to the building’s structure, many of us remained 
unaware of the situation inside the build-
ing. Most recently, anti-slip coating and handrails were installed in the stairwells. Though the public attention and minor renovations are a step in the right direc-
tion, the condition of the building is still 
very dire. Recently, I have been given tours of the building by a music stu-dent and professor.
During these tours, I spoke 
with students, employees and faculty who were concerned about working in such a space. The building’s issues include an 
outdated heating, ventilation 
and air conditioning system; the absence of a fire sprinkler system; constant electrical and plumbing problems; crowded rooms; musical equip-
ment at risk of damage; and poor acous-
tics that put students and faculty at risk of hearing damage. 
The entire music building is 
open-air, exposing its occupants 
to bugs, rain, wind, cold, heat 
and humidity. It does not even contain a recital hall, and its oc-cupants often pay high sums of 
money to rent out space in Uni-
versity Auditorium or the Phil-lips Center for the Performing 
Arts.   
Though they continue to produce beau-
tiful performances and contributions to the Gainesville community, students and fac-ulty do not deserve to work under these difficult circumstances. 
The program continues to expand, seek-
ing to increase the number of music majors and music faculty. Though the building’s occupants have succeeded in spite of these issues, the infrastructure is detrimental to 
their success and growth. UF cannot be-
come a top university with these sort of facilities and must consider the impact that such a building will have on our students, faculty and campus. 
Amanda Nelson is a student senator for 
the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. 
We need to fix the music building if UF wants to be a top universityGuest column
Amanda Nelson
Speaking Out
Eric Kligerman is an associate profes-sor of German studies in the Depart-ment of Languages, Literatures and 
Cultures.
AM: You teach Kafka and the Kaf-
kaesque. How do you deal with the superfi-cial fetishization of Kafka?
EK: Looking at these creatures that he 
has, whether it’s Gregor Samsa, Gracchus, 
or his hybrid lamb-kitten and the story of Kafka himself, there’s something very 
quantum-like. 
Is Kafka a German, is he a Czech, is he a 
Jew, is he a not-Jew? Fifteen years prior to 
Schrödinger’s dead cat paradox, Kafka was 
already writing such paradoxes. If a fetish 
is reified, solidified and grasped, I show just how discursive and difficult Kafka is. As one critic remarked, you enter as a no-mad into a text of Kafka. One never knows 
where one will end up.
AM: Why do you teach discussion style?
EK: To get up and say, “This is what the 
story is about,” goes against the very mate-rial that I’m teaching. 
Hannah Arendt discusses how think-
ing is discursive: We’re always running from one part of the world to another. Last 
Spring, my friend in mathematics, Kevin 
Knudson, and I team-taught (math and lit-erature). 
There was something insanely poetic about Knudson’s description of concepts. Thinking about Kafka in relation to Zeno’s paradox or 
questions of the infinite or Borg-
es in relationship to fractals gave me a new perspective on texts that had become frozen or stag-
nant for me.
AM: Did your STEM students 
act the same as literature students?
EK: Many STEM students have had a 
particular sensitivity and epistemic drive 
to understand blind spots in the literature. 
I taught (Refracting Literature through 
Science) through concepts from Einstein’s 
relativity theory to quantum thought’s un-
certainty principle. 
Arendt talks about thinking without 
banisters. She means not to be hemmed in by one methodology, but to show that 
there’s something porous between these 
boundaries of thought.
AM: Your degree is in comparative lit-
erature. What are your main literatures?
EK: I had gone to grad school to study 
German, American, English and French lyric poetry, and continental philosophy. 
I ended up focusing on German-Jewish 
intellectuals, writers and the Holocaust. My classes are always interdisciplinary. 
Law and Literature is transnational and 
spans 2,500 years. The questions of justice raised by Sophocles permeate our contemporary world. Although these events are not the same, 
you recall the specter of National 
Socialism within the images of Czech officials writing numbers on the arms of Syrian refugees, 
or the Hungarians transporting 
them on trains to displacement centers. 
In turn, when the German chancel-
lor remarks that it would do justice to its 
responsibility to help refugees, she is ac-
knowledging her country’s historical re-sponsibility in wake of the Holocaust.
AM: On the flip side, Marine Le Pen 
compared Muslims praying in public to Nazis occupying France.
EK: You hear a French right-wing politi-
cian saying about the Germans, ‘You took 
away our Jews, and you’re bringing us Ar-
abs.’ 
One doubles over with historical aware-
ness at the obscenity as well as blindness 
as to one’s own complicity in the destruc-
tion of European Jewry.
AM: How present is the Holocaust in 
Germany?
EK: One of the last times I was there, 
they had just constructed the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe in the cen-ter of Berlin. Everyone always hears, it’s Schluss!: It’s over with, here’s the memo-rial, we can move on. But then something brings it back. 
We find out that Günter Grass, the moral 
compass of Germany, when he was 17 was in the SS, and concealed his history. Ger-many has Stolperstein, stumbling blocks. 
Where a family was deported to the camps 
and murdered, there are raised, golden memorial stones that say, “Hier wohnte,” here lived, the name and birthdate of the individual, and the date and place of their 
death. 
You might see the stone or not. But you 
might trip over it to get you to think about 
these absences. I went on that post-college, 
grand journey through Europe to the places 
of the poets I loved. You go to Weimar to see Goethe’s home and you’re 10 minutes down the street from Buchenwald. You visit where Hegel wrote “Phenomenology 
of Spirit,” and see nearby a sign that says, 
“This is where Bamberg’s Jews were de-ported.” 
Around the corner from where Rilke 
lived in Paris, there’s another memorial to the deportation of France’s Jews. Where Kafka lived in Prague, you’re constantly running into memorials. The past is always creeping in, whether in its traces or its very 
absence.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and 
Spanish senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.Professor Q&A: Kafka and the creeping influence of the past coming backColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
By Ashley Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
The Alachua County Library 
District received three awards from 
the Northeast Florida Library Infor-
mation Network this past week. 
It was acknowledged for a pro-
gram for autistic children, a librar-
ian and employment training.
The district, which includes 12 
libraries and two bookmobiles, 
was recognized last week for its innovative Sensory Storytime pro-
gram and for librarian Linda Dean. 
NEFLIN awarded the Golden Apple Award for continuing education to the library district for its commit-
ment to staff training, development 
and active participation in NEF-LIN’s training programs.
“The Alachua County library 
system is the best in the state,” 
Dean said. “They are so progres-
sive in reaching out and doing new things.”
Dean won the award for her 
dedication to literacy and children and her creation of the innovative science, technology, engineering, art and math (STEAM) program. 
Dean, who has a master’s degree 
in library and information sci-ence from the University of South Florida, was a media specialist in 
Brevard County for 37 years before 
moving to Alachua County. 
Dean received a $2,900 grant 
from the Dollar General Literacy Foundation which allowed the Alachua Branch to purchase a 3-D 
printer and materials to use for the 
program focused on science, tech-nology, engineering, art and math.
“It was an honor to be selected 
for this because the recognition that I have gotten as a result has really shined a light on all the pro-grams that we do out here,” Dean said.The district was also recognized 
for its Sensory Storytime program, the first program in the 24 counties under NEFLIN jurisdiction to have a story time designed for autistic 
children.
Gail Carr, who has worked in 
the Alachua County Library District 
for nine years, said the interactive, 
hands-on story time helps autistic 
children learn and process their en-vironment through sensory integra-tion.
Designed at the preschool level, 
children sit on carpet squares and hold their own books. Participants have ranged from 2-years-old to 8-years-old, according to Carr. 
There are four programs available 
each month throughout the county.
“The parents have thanked us 
with tears in their eyes,” Carr said.
Nickie Kortus, the marketing 
and public relations manager of the Alachua County Library District, said people feel safe and invited when they come into the library 
because it welcomes everyone.
According to Kortus’ database, 
164,000 people in Alachua County 
have library cards.Local Libraries’ programs shine
CAMPUS
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Friday’s temperature reached 
88 degrees, but to one student, it was sweater weather.
During Gator sporting events, 
UF economics junior Josh Ritten-our hunts for vintage team appar-el, leaving with sweaters, shirts 
and hats that, just moments be-
fore, were worn by someone else.
Rittenour started his business, 
Dave’s Freshly Used, to sell clas-sic and restored vintage apparel. 
The business was named after 
his high school nickname, which started in 2012, when Rittenour was in high school selling his 
finds out of his trunk.
The Gator games bring in 
the most business, he said. The 
20-year-old weaves through the crowds, sporting his vintage 
Gator gear and scouting out po-
tential bait for his collection.
“I know this is weird, but 
what would it take to buy that 
hat off you?” he asks strangers at 
the game.
More often than not, he walks 
away happy.
Since the new season started, 
Rittenour has sold about 30 vin-tage apparel items and hopes to cash out another 100 items before the season is over.
He typically buys them for as 
little as 10 cents and as much as $10. To make them look new again, 
he reshapes hats and washes and mends clothes. Then, he sells them for between $10 and $130, depending on the item and its 
rarity.
College students are a big part 
of his business, Rittenour said.
He’s a regular on UF’s Free & For Sale, a Facebook page for 
students to buy and sell items. Among his customers are stu-dents looking to buy Gator ap-parel to wear to themed parties.
UF senior Chelsea Ogugua said 
she impulsively bought an old Gator baseball jersey and other sports apparel when she saw Rit-tenour post on Facebook.
“I said, ‘I have to hit this guy 
up,’” the 21-year-old said.
The telecommunication major 
said multiple people have offered 
to buy the jersey from her, but 
she thinks it’s too fashion-for-ward to part with.
“It’s, like, really fresh,” Ogu-gua said.  
UF finance junior Tapan Patel, 
19, said he collects Gator basket-ball jerseys — and Dave’s had a rare one that caught his eye. 
It was an Al Horford jersey, 
complete with his name and number.
“I was excited about buying 
and keeping it for my collection for the long term,” Patel said.
Dave’s Freshly Used started as 
a way to fund Rittenour’s thrift-ing habit. 
He said he drives as many as 
three hours to visit thrift stores. His Gator gear turned into a col-lection when he came to campus 
in Fall 2013. 
To thin it out, he sold from 
his dorm room, on campus and 
online. 
Last year, he met up with 
about three people a day.
Today, his inventory consists 
of around 200 hats and a couple hundred clothing items.
He doesn’t do this for the 
money, he said. He has a job at Publix.
Rittenour flashed his favorite 
hat, which he bought off some-
one’s head after Gator Growl last 
year.
He immediately knew it was 
one-of-a-kind: a Gator Growl hat 
with the word “sample” on the 
inside.
“I can’t put a price on that,” 
he said.UF student takes thrifting business to Gator gamesNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
TIE-DYNAMITE
Livia Ledbetter, an 18-year-old UF English freshman and 
Lakeside Complex resident, tie-dyes a T-shirt at the com-plex on Sunday. The Lakeside Area Residents’ Council host-ed the activity for residents to have fun and socialize.
Briana Erickson / Alligator
Josh Rittenour, a 20-year-old UF economics junior, lays out a portion of sports hats that he has col-lected through thrifting at his house on Thursday. Rittenour restores the old hats. 
“It was an honor to be selected 
for this because the recognition 
that I have gotten as a result has 
really shined a light on all the 
programs that we do out here.”
Linda Dean
LibrarianDistrict received 3 awardsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
When Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art partygoers walked through 
its doors, they were greeted by 
giant colorful candles and silver 
balloons with tinsel strings.
On Friday, about 500 UF stu-
dents, alumni, faculty and mem-
bers of the museum celebrated 
its 25th birthday with a dinner, cocktail hour and after-party. Ticket sales benefitted the Harn’s exhibitions, programs and free 
admission, said Tami Wroath, 
director of marketing and public relations at the Harn.
As a Florida Cicerone, Jasmine 
Haddaway, a UF international relations and women’s studies sophomore, greeted guests as they walked into the museum for the cocktail hour and after party.
The 19-year-old said she 
thought the event was fun even though she was working. She swayed to Chubby Checker’s “The Twist” as a group of elderly 
guests danced beside her.
“It’s great to see our universi-
ty cares about the arts in general 
and wants to see them thrive on 
campus as well as in Gainesville,” 
she said.
Guests of the Harn’s “25 
Candles” celebration wandered through the 25th anniversary col-
lection, “Conversations,” admir-
ing pieces gifted to the museum over the years.  Wroath said she was excited 
for people to see the exhibit and see how the Harn’s collection has changed and progressed.
“We are still a young muse-
um,” she said. “We’re as old as a college student would be.”
UF a cappella group No South-
ern Accent sang Pharrell Wil-liams’ “Happy” at the after party.
The amount of money raised 
through ticket sales won’t be known for a few days, Wroath said.
Maggie Insogna, 31, said she 
came to the event to support the Harn. She became a member when she moved to Gainesville two years ago.
“Not only is it a world-class 
art museum, but it’s a cultural gem you wouldn’t expect in Gainesville,” she said.Harn throws 25th birthday bash, music and cocktail party
About 500 people attendedTOP LEFT:
Guitarist Welson Tremura 
plays Latin-American music in the contemporary art sec-tion at the Samuel P . Harn Mu-seum of Art. He and five other musicians played live music throughout the museum’s halls and galleries during the celebration on Sunday.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Marta Wayne (left), 49, and her daughter Norma Wayne, 9, draw on foam letters at the Harn’s 25th anniversary public celebration on Sunday. Visitors drew on the letters through-out the day. The concept was based on the sculpture “Zand-voort” by Frank Stella.TOP RIGHT:
Ashley LeBlanc, 23-year-old Harn choreographer-in-resi-dence, performs a dance based on the artwork exhibited at the Harn’s 25th anniversary on Sunday. LeBlanc danced throughout the day, both solo and with the UF Improv Dance Ensemble.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Benny White, 6, throws a die to determine which color he will use on a foam sculpture on Sunday at the Harn. Attendees rolled three dice to dictate the shape they would paint, what color to use and what letter to put it on. Benny rolled the color blue, the letter “A” and a squiggle shape.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffDanielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
Historic Duck Pond: Vintage two-story 3bed/2bath available now. This clean, spa-cious home is beautifully restored! Walk to Downtown, Innovation Square, or UF. $1595/mo. Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395. email: 217@cozygator.com    10-1-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
GOATS - $125 - $250SHEEP - $200 - $300
Call Michael 352-316-2427     9-29-15-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1996 Nissan Altima GXE, 5 Speed195,000 miles Runs great, cold AC
$680 Call 352 262-6237    9-30-15-3-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
AllChem Industries is looking for an accounts 
payable / admin assistant. Three afternoons per week 1.30-5.30pm, one of the afternoons must be Friday. Up to six month position with potential to continue depending upon the needs of the business. Send your resume to rp0709@allchem.com.    9-29-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Mary Wise and the 
Florida volleyball team suffered a 3-1 defeat to the Kentucky Wildcats on Sunday afternoon. Read the story on pg. 16. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports. By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
After almost two years, Flor-
ida football is back among the 
ranked.
Following UF’s 28-27 come-
from-behind victory against Ten-nessee on Saturday, the Gators checked in as the No. 25 team in the Associated Press’ latest Top 
25 poll, which was released Sun-
day afternoon. 
After trailing Tennessee 27-14 
with about 10 minutes to play, Florida scored 14 unanswered 
points, highlighted by Antonio 
Callaway’s 63-yard catch-and-run on fourth and 14 to give the Gators the one-point lead with 1:26 left to play. 
Tennessee missed the poten-
tial game-winning ﬁ  eld goal with three seconds remaining on the clock and the Gators escaped with their 11th-straight victory 
over the Volunteers, a series re-
cord.
“There isn’t a need to panic. 
And we didn’t,” UF coach Jim McElwain said. 
“It was good to see, and yet, 
here’s the best thing, is seeing their faces in that locker room after a win like that. Man, that’s 
what warms your heart.”
The ranking marks the ﬁ  rst 
time UF has been ranked in the 
AP poll since its 36-17 loss to Missouri on Oct. 19, 2013, when 
it was ranked No. 22.The loss was the  second of 
seven consecutive Florida losses 
during its 4-8 2013 season.
The Gators are off to their 
ﬁ  rst 4-0 start since the 2012 sea-
son, a year in which the Gators 
went 11-2 and earned a Sugar Bowl berth.
Florida returns to action Sat-
urday against No. 3 Ole Miss (4-
0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference). 
Kickoff is set for 7 p.m. and 
will be televised on ESPN.ANTONIO CALLAWAY SCORED 
THE DECIDING TOUCHDOWN.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
When Antonio Callaway took the 
practice ﬁ  eld for the ﬁ  rst time during 
Fall camp, his teammates knew there was something special about him.
“The ﬁ  rst day he was out here, we 
were out there doing seven-on-sevens and he was catching the ball, making 
moves and I was like, ‘Oh yeah, this 
guy’s gonna be good,’” wide receiver 
Brandon Powell said.
Now, after Saturday night’s perfor-
mance, the rest of us know, too.
Callaway, a freshman, was the hero 
of Florida’s come-from-behind 28-27 victory over Tennessee, taking the 
fourth down pass from quarterback 
Will Grier and turning up the sidelines 
for the eventual 63-yard game-winning 
touchdown.
The catch was easy enough, but the 
speed and vision to cut to the outside 
and streak toward the end zone are 
what future stars are made of.
At least that's what his team believes 
about him.
“My little brother, Callaway, just 
made a hell of a play, man,” Grier said after the game. 
“That guy has just stepped up and is MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF men's golf team downs Georgia Tech in match play
Florida's men's golf team opened match play at the DICK's Sporting Goods 
Collegiate Challenge Cup in Kingston Springs, T ennessee, with a 3-2 victory over Georgia T ech. Read the story on pg. 16. SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE CALLAWAY,  PAGE 15
AIR JORDAN
Florida fans 
will have fond memories of Saturday’s win against Tennes-
see.
A 13-point fourth 
quarter comeback 
breathed life into The 
Swamp and the more than 90,000 who in-habited it.
Antonio Callaway’s breakaway 
catch-and-run will be remembered for years to come.
The 11-game win-streak against 
a Southeastern Conference rival 
lives on.
But the hype shouldn’t.Outside of those 
ﬁ  nal 10 minutes, Ten-
nessee simply man-
handled Florida, and 
the early mistakes will cost the Gators if it happens against a top-
ﬁ  ve team in Ole Miss 
this weekend.
“I don’t know if we 
deserved it or not,” 
coach Jim McElwain said, “but I 
sure like it this way than the other 
way.”
But the wins won’t keep sliding 
in Florida’s favor if the slow starts 
continue to mount on both sides of Amazing as it was, Florida 
must keep win in perspectiveUF cracks latest AP Top 25 pollEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway returns a punt during Florida's 28-27 win against T ennessee on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. Callaway had the game-winning touchdown reception to complete Florida's comeback. 
 Freshman wide receiver continues to shine for Florida 
First time since Oct. 2013
“It was good to see, and yet, 
here’s the best thing, is seeing 
their faces in that locker 
room after a win like that. 
Man, that’s what warms your 
heart.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson112614   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
deficit into an 18-17 victory over 
Auburn, to find a greater deficit overcome by Florida.
Like Bell’s ’86 unit, the 2015 
Gators wouldn’t have won without the poise of Grier. The Davidson, 
North Carolina, native had felt the 
pressure from the Volunteers’ front seven through 50 minutes of play, 
and it showed. He took hit after 
hit, yet repeatedly picked himself 
up and prepared for the next play.
“He was sore,” McElwain said 
of Grier. “You’re playing in the 
SEC. You’re going to get sore. I 
love his courage. He played with 
some bruises, but really in this 
league, if you’re playing that po-sition, you’re going to get some 
bumps and bruises.”
The team watched as its young 
quarterback grew more confident 
in the pocket, and it all culminated in the final series.
Despite his second and third 
down passes falling incomplete, 
Grier stayed collected and went 
through his progressions. The pres-sure of a fourth-and-14 didn’t get 
to him. 
Grier grew up.
With the winning streak in the 
rear-view mirror and at a series-
high 11 wins, Grier must carry the 
lessons over into Florida’s game 
against the Rebels. 
While it would seem Grier has 
a hold on the starting quarterback 
role, McElwain has been adamant 
he won’t rule out Treon Harris 
upon his return from suspension. 
But if Grier proved anything in 
leading the Gators to victory, it was 
that he had the mental fortitude to 
rally his team and keep playing un-
til time on the clock expires.
“You’ve got to battle,” Grier 
said. “You deal with adversity and you’ve got to respond. ... We 
fought until the end and that’s 
what you’ve got to do to win games 
like that.”
TOP RIGHT:
UF president Kent Fuchs 
celebrates during the game.
TOP LEFT:
UF linebacker Jarrad Davis (40, from left) and defensive linemen Alex McCalister, Bryan Cox Jr. and Jonathan Bullard celebrate after a sack.
MIDDLE LEFT:
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway scores the game-winning touchdown on Saturday. 
BOTTOM:
UF wide receiver Brandon Powell (4) barrels into the endzone for a fourth-quarter touchdown to cut Florida’s deficit to 27-21.FOOTBALL,  from pg1UF’s 4-0 start first since 2012 season
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staffthe ball.
After taking a 7-0 lead five minutes into 
the first quarter, the Gators punted on five 
of their next seven drives — the two drives 
that did not end in punts were an intercep-tion and one play before the half.
Trick plays threw the Gators for a loop 
and had coach Jim McElwain joking about adding them to his playbook.
Quarterback Joshua Dobbs and running 
back Jalen Hurd trampled UF’s defense on the ground, with the two combining for 238 
rushing yards — 72 more rushing yards than 
UF’s first three opponents combined.
Missed tackles magnified the erraticness of Florida’s defense.
“We either hit them really hard, or we 
miss,” safety Keanu Neal said.
And while Neal — who had a team-best 
14 tackles — hit the Volunteers often, the rest of Florida’s defense was far off the mark too many times.
“Defensively, we didn’t play as well as 
we should have. We played terribly,” Neal said. 
If the Gators are truly able to play an en-
tire game like they did in the final 10 min-utes against Tennessee, then The Swamp 
will once again become a place opponents 
should fear.
But until they show that, Saturday’s 
game was just a lucky break.making a lot of plays. 
“He turned that first down into a touch-
down. Big players make big plays in big 
games like that.”
Tight end Jake McGee agreed.“He showed his skills I think you’ll see 
for a long time to come here,” McGee said.
Callaway’s talent didn’t just show up 
on that play. 
The freshman had a team-leading 112 
yards receiving in the game on five catch-es, second only to Demarcus Robinson’s six.
Those skills haven’t been limited to 
Saturday night, either.
A week ago at Kentucky, Callaway 
made a sensational one-handed grab in the middle of the field, never slowed down and proceeded to pick up an addi-tional 10 yards after the catch.
To make it even more impressive, in-
stead of grabbing the tip of the ball — which is easier and more common — he caught the middle, fat part.
His teammates were incensed that the 
play didn’t make the SportsCenter Top 10 Plays list.
“That definitely should have been on 
there,” tight end DeAndre Goolsby said. 
“That catch was crazy. I was honestly 
at a loss for words.”
Through four games this season, Cal-laway has nine catches for 172 yards and the one touchdown against the Volun-teers.
While that might not sound impres-
sive, consider this: the last time Florida 
had a freshman receiver catch more than 
20 passes for 200 yards was when Percy 
Harvin caught 34 passes for 427 yards in 2006. 
That obviously worked out well for the 
Gators down the road.
With eight games remaining plus a po-
tential bowl game, it’s almost a guarantee that Callaway will be able to surpass Har-vin’s freshman yard mark.
And with the expanded role Callaway 
will likely see after his recent perfor-mance, his production could near Har-vin’s mark he set in his freshman year. 
That would be a big deal for Florida, a 
program that has struggled to find reliable playmakers over the past few seasons.
One thing, though, is certain: big things 
are expected of the freshman receiver’s fu-ture, and we may have just seen a glimpse of the type of potential he has. 
It's up to Callaway to prove he has the 
talent and work ethic to be special. 
“We knew there was something special 
in this kid when we started recruiting him and I think he’s proving that,” McElwain said. 
“And it’s still I don’t think really 
scratched the surface. He’s still learning how to play.”MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
CALLAWAY,  from pg13Callaway has nine catches 
for 172 yards this season SOCCER
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
With less than a minute remain-
ing in the game, it looked like the 
No. 9 Florida Gators women’s soccer team and the No. 13 Auburn Tigers were going to need overtime to de-
termine a winner in Sunday’s match.
After a yellow card was given to 
Auburn forward Ellie Leek, the Ti-
gers regained possession and took a shot on goal with just under 30 sec-onds remaining in the match.
The shot was blocked by a UF de-
fender and went out over the line for an Auburn corner kick.
The ensuing corner kick was sent 
in by forward Taylor Troutman and was put into the back of the net off a volley by midfielder Casie Ramsier for her second goal of the match.
With no stoppage time at the 
end of 90 minutes, the Gators saw their chances of winning or pushing the game into overtime slip through 
their fingers.
The Gators (8-3-0, 2-2-0 South-
eastern Conference) lost 3-2 as Au-
burn (10-1-0, 3-1-0 SEC) stayed un-defeated at home.
“I was proud of our team’s re-
silience to come back from 2-0, not sure a lot of team’s can do that on the road in the SEC,” coach Becky 
Burleigh said. “I think we’ll defi-
nitely learn how manage the end of a game better.”
The first half of the game was rather uneventful for both sides as the two SEC opponents combined 
for 13 shots but only five on goal. 
The teams entered halftime tied at 0-0.
This season, the goals have come 
early and often for both the Gators and their opponents in the second half.
Florida has given up nine goals 
and scored 16 in the second halves of its 11 matches this season. 
The late game opportunities were 
abundant in Sunday’s match as all five goals were scored in the final 45 minutes.
The goal scoring started early in 
the second half when Auburn struck in the 47th minute on Ramsier’s first goal of the match and seventh of the season. The goal came off of a re-bound shot after Florida goalkeeper Valerie Tysinger and the Gators’ de-
fense failed to clear the ball from the 
box.
The Tigers followed that break-
through goal with another in the 49th minute when forward Kristen Dodson beat Tysinger on a shot to the keeper’s left.
UF fought back to get a goal of its 
own in the 58th minute on its second 
penalty kick of the game. 
A penalty kick was awarded after 
a tackle on midfielder Mayra Pelayo 
in the box. Junior Savannah Jordan stepped up and put it away to make the score 2-1.
Florida would equalize in the 
73rd minute on another goal from Jordan on a counter attack.
After the equalizing goal, both 
teams seemed to be pushing harder than they had the entire match trying to find a game-winning opportunity.
Florida took four shots in the 
remaining 17 minutes but were outmatched as the game drew to a close. Auburn took seven shots in the same amount of time and broke 
the deadlock on a set piece in the fi-
nal moments of the game.
A corner kick from Troutman met 
the right foot of Ramsier and the Ti-gers pulled ahead to a 3-2 lead as the clock wound down.
“Always set pieces in general is 
something that we try and focus on,” Burleigh said. 
“You’ve got to win the first and 
second ball, that’s the bottom line."Florida defeated by No. 13 Auburn on last-second goal 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF defensive back Deiondre Porter misses a tackle on T ennessee quarterback Josh 
Dobbs during Florida's 28-27 win on Saturday. 
COLUMN,  from pg13Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Savannah Jordan chases the ball during Florida's 3-2 win against Oklahoma State on Sept. 4 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@Brianlee_17
All good things must come to an end. 
The UF volleyball team lost to the Uni-
versity of Kentucky in four sets on Sunday 
afternoon, marking its ﬁ  rst Southeastern 
Conference defeat since November 2013 against Missouri, an impressive streak of 23 consecutive games. 
The No. 5 Gators (9-2, 1-1 SEC) looked 
sluggish from the start and the No. 24 Wild-cats (9-5, 2-0 SEC) took full advantage. 
The teams traded leads throughout the 
game’s opening set. Despite sloppy play, 
Florida squeaked out the win by a score of 
25-22. 
Not much else went right after that.The Gators dropped the next three in 
straight sets 23-25, 21-25 and 21-25. 
“Everyone came in knowing Kentucky 
was gonna be a great team. They’ve always been a very good SEC competition team for us and they played great,” said senior setter 
Mackenzie Dagostino, who led the Gators 
with 40 assists.
“Wasn’t my best night setting, I have no 
problem admitting that.”Florida struggled for much of the night 
with normally routine yet critical elements 
of the game such as serving and service 
receiving. The Gators also struggled with hitting percentage also it went down after the ﬁ  rst set. 
After hitting .310 in the opening set, UF 
hit .139, .100 and .176 in the last three sets respectively. Florida ended up hitting .190 in the match, the team’s worst hitting per-centage this year.   
Having not lost at the O’Connell Center 
since just over a year ago, Florida’s play-
ers appeared shell-shocked as the Wildcats 
celebrated a victory on the Gator’s home 
court. 
“It is the ﬁ  rst one in a while, but it’s still 
a good learning opportunity again for us to understand OK, we might be top in the SEC right now, but what’s it going to be at the end of the year? And what are we gonna do to make sure we keep that spot,” Dagostino 
said. 
Good teams and coaches ﬁ  nd ways to 
turn a tough loss into a learning experience 
to better prepare for the future. 
“Unfortunately we just didn’t play like 
the Gators usually play and I think they took advantage of that which is very good on their part,” Dagostino said. “But at the same time I think it’s really important for us 
to take this loss as a learning opportunity 
and understand OK, we’re not as good as we can be yet, so we can get better from this experience and I think that’s what 
we’re gonna do come Monday in practice,” 
“A loss is a loss, regardless of who it’s 
to, it’s not fun.” 
Head coach Mary Wise shared the same 
sentiment. While clearly disappointed, she pointed out that there were positives to be 
taken away from this game. 
“They were better than us offensively 
and they were better than us defensively,” 
Wise said. 
“It happens, but it gives us an oppor-
tunity to now see who we are today and 
make this a point for how we can get bet-ter.”Florida volleyball downed by Kentucky
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
It was a clash of conferences at the DICK’s 
Sporting Goods Collegiate Challenge Cup, as 
six teams from the Southeastern Conference and six teams from the Atlantic Coast Confer-ence faced off in an 18-hole match play compe-
tition on Sunday.
Florida did their part for the SEC at the Golf 
Club of Tennessee in Kingston Springs, defeat-
ing No. 17 Georgia Tech 3-2 thanks to victories by junior Ryan Orr and freshman Jorge Garcia. 
“It’s a really awesome format,” head coach 
JC Deacon said in a release. 
“I think it’s really exciting, and I think that’s 
why the Golf Channel and people have gravi-tated to it.
“There are a lot of nerves and a lot of im-
portant shots that come up, and I think the guys had a lot of fun.”
With ﬁ  ve Gators pitted against ﬁ  ve Yellow 
Jackets, Orr defeated Michael Hines by two holes and Garcia defeated Chris Peteﬁ  sh by four holes. 
Freshman Sam Horsﬁ  eld ﬁ  nished in a tie 
with Vince Whaley while freshman Gordon Neale tied with Jacob Joiner. Meanwhile, 
sophomore Ryan Celano lost to James Clark by 
a three-hole margin. 
Despite UF’s 3-2 win over GT, as a whole, 
the SEC fell to the ACC, 15.5-14.5. 
The SEC got help from two Tennessee 
schools, as tournament host No. 12 Vanderbilt defeated Virginia and Tennessee defeated No. 7 Clemson.
For the ACC, Louisville defeated No. 25 
Alabama, No. 1 Florida State defeated No. 10 Georgia and No. 13 Duke defeated Kentucky.
The tournament also featured a 54-hole 
stroke play competition on Friday and Saturday, in which UF tied for 7th out of 12 teams. 
While Orr ended Friday 
tied for third at four-under 
par, he landed in a tie for 
13th place after shooting a 5-over 76.
Freshmen Horsﬁ  eld 
(T16) and Garcia (T31) ﬁ  nished the tourna-ment at 2-over and 6-over, respectively. 
“We let frustration get the best of us, and 
we had an absolutely awful ﬁ  nish,” Deacon said.
“For great teams, that’s unacceptable. I hope these guys take it personally today and go home and focus on ﬁ  nishing strong the rest 
of the year. We didn’t do that today.”
Vanderbilt won the stroke play portion at 
3-under after defeating Virginia in a playoff. 
Florida State took third place at 6-over. 
Alabama’s Robby Shelton took the indi-
vidual win with an 8-under ﬁ  nish, and Florida State’s Hank Lebioda took second place, ﬁ  nish-ing 5-under. 
While the Gators underperformed on Friday 
and Saturday, Deacon was pleased to see im-provement on Sunday after a team meeting. 
“We talked a lot about attitude and effort 
and self-talk, and the guys came out and were just incredible today — all ﬁ  ve of them,” Dea-con said.
“It was a small step to get one win against 
Georgia Tech, but it a big step overall because I think we set the tone for what to expect the 
rest of the year.”Florida men’s golf defeats Georgia Tech in match playAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mary Wise calls out to Mackenzie 
Dagostino during Florida’s 3-1 loss to UK on Sunday. 
“Everyone came in knowing 
Kentucky was gonna be a great 
team. They’ve always been a very 
good SEC competition team for us 
and they played great.”
Mackenzie Dagostino
UF senior setter
UF tied for 7th in stroke play
Deacon
