By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writers
jmcpherson@alligator.org
After going through a test run 
in April, the UF Safe Ride program, 
a partnership between UF Student Government and Uber, has returned for Summer B.
The deal, which resumed on Fri-
day and will last until August 7, gives UF students a 50 percent discount on rides that start and ﬁ  nish within the designated areas surrounding UF’s 
campus.
The discounts only apply 
Wednesday through Sunday be-
tween 10 p.m. and 3 a.m., and the ride has to be requested through the UF Safe Rides option located on the Uber app.
Student Government and Uber 
ran a month-long pilot program of 
the Safe Ride program back in April.
Blake Murphy, former SG direc-
tor of external affairs, said at a re-cent Student Senate meeting that the 
program’s success during the trial run made it a no-brainer to make an effort to continue the program into 
Summer B.
Funding for Uber comes from 
the transportation access fee that is 
tacked on with students’ tuition. For the 2014-2015 academic year, the fee was $8.91 per credit hour.
The money collected from the 
transportation access fee is then used to help fund RTS, Gotcha, Gator Lift, 
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol 
and Uber, Sen. Susan Webster said.
“Those are all things that I’m sure 
all students have used at one point,” Webster said at the June 16 Senate meeting.
In order to use the UF Safe Ride 
program, new and existing Uber members can go to blog.uber.com/
UFsharerides to receive a promo-
tional code. Once the user enters that code, he or she will see the “UF Safe 2.09 MILLION FLORIDIANS 
ARE EXPECTED TO TRAVEL 
AT LEAST 50 MILES.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Maria Cirillo will drive more than 
200 miles from Jacksonville to Fort Pierce to visit with her family for the Fourth of July.
She’ll eat hot dogs, hamburgers 
and “something festive,” like red, white and blue cupcakes.
The UF psychology sophomore 
won’t be alone.  
This year, AAA predicts 41.9 mil-
lion people in the U.S. will travel 50 miles or more for ﬁ  reworks and other Fourth of July festivities — the greatest number of Independence Day travelers since 2007. The com-pany expects 2.09 million Floridians to drive, ﬂ  y and ride to their desti-nations, a 1.3 percent increase from last year.
For Cirillo, whose dad lives in 
Jacksonville and whose mom lives in Sarasota, traveling long distances 
over the summer is the norm. She 
said she’ll drive about 300 miles this week, from Gainesville to a Say Any-thing concert in Jacksonville, then down the east coast to her grandpar-ents’ home in Fort Pierce.
According to AAA, about 1.8 mil-
lion Floridians are expected to drive to their destinations this weekend.
But Kirsten Palma, a UF mechani-
cal engineering junior, won’t be among them.
Although Palma plans on head-
ing home to Pembroke Pines, which is between Miami and Ft. Lauder-dale, she’ll be one of the 3.2 million We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
The Alligator Awards
Which of UF’s national championship 
winning teams — softball or gymnas-tics — was the best of the 2014-2015 season? See our rally, pg 17.
Fireworks to light up Flavet Field
The annual ‘Fanfares and Fireworks’ is Friday, pg 5.
Rock the Fourth like an American
For this and more, check out the Avenue, pgs 9-12.UF welcomes its ﬁ  rst permanent female 
law dean
Her ﬁ  rst day was Wednesday, pg 4.
UF welcomes its ﬁ  rst permanent female 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Growlers Allowed
Dustin Allen, a 34-year-old bartender at Swamp Head Brewery, serves a 64-ounce growler of beer to a customer Wednesday. A law legalizing the sale of the 64-ounce size took effect that day. Read the story on page 3.
SEE TRAVEL,  PAGE 8
SEE UBER,  PAGE 8 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 158
Use these tips to stay safe 
this Fourth of July:
 Don’t allow children to play with or 
ignite ﬁ  reworks.
 Never place any part of your body over a ﬁ  rework device when lighting the fuse.
 Never point or throw ﬁ  reworks at another person.
 Keep a bucket of water or a garden hose handy in the event of a ﬁ  re.
 Light ﬁ  reworks one at a time, then move quickly.
 Never shoot ﬁ  reworks off in a metal or glass container.
 Douse used ﬁ  reworks in water before throwing them in the trash.
 Use caution when handling sparklers. They can reach temperatures upwards of 2,000 degrees, which is hot enough to melt some metals.
 Remember that ﬁ  reworks are illegal on public land, including national forests and campsites.FROM THE POLICE PERSPECTIVE: More travelers on 
the road this Fourth 
of July weekend
LOCAL
Safe Ride program 
returns for Summer B
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff More than 11,000 injuries resulted from 
consumer use of fireworks in 2013, according 
to a City of Gainesville press release. - Ben T obias, Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer“…IF IT ‘GOES UP’ OR ‘BLOWS UP’ IT’S ILLEGAL. ”Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 158
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Creative B Movie Series: 
‘Them!’
Join a panel of scientists, art-ists and special effects ex-perts as they view and discuss “Them!” (1954) at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Friday at 7 p.m. Friday nights through July 31, the museum and Creative B will screen a free movie and explore the 
balance between science and 
art. UF students receive free admission to “A T. rex Named Sue” with their Gator 1 Card. The museum is open to the public from 6 to 10 p.m.  
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 4 p.m. 
and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. CORRECTION
Clementa Pinckney, who was 
killed in the Charleston, South Carolina, shooting, was a South Carolina state senator. We reported otherwise in our editorial on Tuesday.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  91° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo1
1312111098765432
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk 
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W. University Ave., each weekday between 1:00 and 4:00 p.m. from 
now until July 1st.   Please do not call.  Further written information 
is available at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need for the application process.  The application must be returned to the same desk by 3:00 pm, July 2nd. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.   
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The 
Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public beginning at 2:00 pm 
Friday, July 17th.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be considered.  Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students.  Preference will be given to those who have experience at The Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employerand
announces the openings for the positionsTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
APPLY @ GAINESVILLESTUDENTLIVING.COM
Rates & fees subject to change. While supplies last. Limited time only. See office for details.
ROYAL VILLAGEUNIVERSITY CLUB
+ SAVE UP TO $314 WITH ZERO DOWNSIGN A LEASE & GET A
LIMITED SHORT-TERM LEASES AVAILABLE$500 GIFT CARD
OR NEW LOW RATESLOCAL
By Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville breweries were 
more crowded than usual 
Wednesday, as craft beer lovers 
celebrated the lift of Florida’s ban 
on 64-ounce growlers, the most popular size of to-go containers for craft beer.
“For people in the craft beer 
community, this is a big break-through,” said Gary Fairchild, who came to Swamp Head Brew-ery to participate in the celebra-
tion by filling a 64-ounce growler 
with a limited-edition beer.
Before Wednesday, consumers 
could only purchase 32-ounce or 
128-ounce growlers, but no sizes 
in between.
The ban on 64 ounces was an 
unintended consequence of 1960s legislation meant to punish Miller 
Brewing for not planting a brew-
ery in Florida, according to a UF Sponsored Project Report for the Florida Brewers Guild.
For local breweries, this 
change isn’t about the economic impact, but more about modern-izing the craft beer industry in Florida, which has been known 
for its strict regulations on alco-
hol.
“It’s not going to have an overall impact on sales,” said Brandon Nappy, tactical mar-keting manager at Swamp Head Brewery. “It’s just going to bring 
us up to speed with the rest of the nation.”
Craft brewers started lobbying 
to try to change the law about 
five years ago, said Craig Birk-
maier, original brewer at Swamp Head Brewery and former presi-
dent of the board of directors of the Florida Brewers Guild.
“It’s a lot more than just the 
growlers,” he said. “It boiled down to a kind of war, if you will, between the distributors and craft brewers.”
In 2014, the craft beer indus-
try reached an 11 percent volume share of the marketplace, and it is expected to attain 20 percent of the market share by the end 
of the decade, according to the 
Brewers Association.
The growing industry was per-
ceived to be somewhat of a threat 
by distributors, Birkmaier said, 
and that created challenges in the process of getting this legislation passed.
The craft beer industry can 
survive without the 64-ounce growlers, said Robert Ostrow, an investor in First Magnitude Brew-ing Company.
“But it’s a statement,” he 
said. “We’re just like every other state.”
Beer tourism is beginning to 
grow in Florida, and now those 
coming into the brewery with 
their own 64-ounce growlers from out of state can get them filled, Nappy said.
“That’s what people want,” 
said Christine Denny, co-founder of First Magnitude Brewing Com-pany, “and we’re here to make the stuff that people want.”Gainesville breweries celebrate legal 64-ounce growlers
John Hursh / Alligator 
Florida Sen. Rob Bradley, center, celebrates the legalization of 64-ounce growlers at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company on Wednesday. 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
Twelve sunﬂ  owers, an orchid, a 
potted plant and a box.
This is a list of the gifts from the 
administration and old friends that 
Laura Ann Rosenbury received on her ﬁ  rst day as the new dean of UF’s Levin College of Law.
When she opened the box 
Wednesday morning, she burst into laughter.
It was a framed New Yorker car-
toon, one she implements often in 
her teachings, she said.
Pictured is a squid working a 
lunch line with a confused customer 
looking on with the caption, “He feels 
he can do more good within the sys-
tem.”
A perfect ﬁ  rst-day-of-work gift, 
Rosenbury said.
It hangs across a wall in her ofﬁ  ce, 
alongside the three sets of ﬂ  owers.
Rosenbury, 45, began her role 
as the ﬁ  rst permanent female dean of UF’s Levin College of Law on 
Wednesday.
“I’m glad to ﬁ  nally be begin-
ning,” said Rosenbury, who drove to 
Gainesville on Monday.
Rosenbury accepted the offer in late April, with a starting salary of $350,000.
After graduating from Harvard 
Law School in 1997 and practicing law for ﬁ  ve years, Rosenbury joined 
the Washington University Law 
School’s faculty and was vice dean before coming to UF.
This past summer, Rosenbury 
traveled to Shanghai, China, for a conference about feminism and law in the U.S. and Asia while teaching an online course, which she is still teaching.
Rosenbury replaced interim dean 
George L. Dawson, who is retiring af-
ter 34 years at UF as a law professor.
Dawson, who saw her speak to 
a group of alumni, said he was im-
pressed by her enthusiasm about the job.
“I think she’s clearly committed 
to the job and advancing the law school,” Dawson said.
Robbie Cusmano, a 25-year-old 
who just ﬁ  nished his last semester at Levin, had the chance to sit in on the faculty and student discussions that reviewed the 14 ﬁ  nalists for the posi-tions back in late March.
Rosenbury sold her vision for the 
future of the law school, Cusmano said, who watched Rosenbury speak 
about her qualiﬁ  cations and asked 
her questions.
“Rosenbury really went above 
and beyond,” Cusmano said.
He admitted to being a little jeal-
ous of current students who now have the opportunity work with her directly, but he is excited for the fu-ture of the law school with Rosen-
bury.
“She’s going to bring a lot to the 
table,” he said.  
Rosenbury’s day began with an 8 
a.m. budget meeting with administra-
tors. 
At 9 a.m., she returned to her of-
ﬁ  ce, where she met with a number of faculty and alumni who stopped by 
and welcomed her, she said.
Rosenbury said she looks forward 
to getting settled in and meeting 
with each faculty member of the law 
school individually by mid-Septem-
ber.
“It’s the faculty who will be most 
inﬂ  uential in educating the students and helping us deﬁ  ne what’s possible 
going into the future,” Rosenbury 
said.UF welcomes its ﬁ  rst permanent female law dean
Courtesy to the Alligator
Laura Ann Rosenbury, dean of UF’s Levin College of Law, began 
her new position on Wednesday.
“She’s going to bring a lot to 
the table.”
Robbie Cusmano
Recent UF graduateTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CAMPUS
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Campus safety was a focal point at Tues-
day’s Student Senate meeting, with the 
chambers unanimously approving a resolu-tion encouraging scooter safety and Univer-sity Police Department Operations Deputy Chief Darren Baxley giving an update on the TapShield app.
The resolution came two weeks after a UF 
student, 22-year-old Gabriella Leona Molden, was hit while driving her scooter southbound on Southwest 13th Street near Museum Road.
Sen. Kailyn Allen, one of the authors of 
the resolution and one of Molden’s sorority sisters, thanked the members of the cham-bers for approving the resolution, adding that she and other senators are planning to start a 
PR campaign on campus to show the beneﬁ  ts 
of wearing helmets while riding a motorized 
scooter.
A GoFundMe page set up to raise funds 
for Molden’s hospital bills has raised about 
$18,500 as of press time.
Later in the meeting, Baxley gave Sena-
tors an update on TapShield, a smartphone 
application that allows students to report lo-cal crime.The app, which was created in January 
2014, has about 21,000 active users, Baxley said.
There have been 160 total activations 
through April 2015, according to statistics from UPD. Of those 160 activations, 139 have 
been accidental.
Baxley said the accidental activations, 
while not always ideal, are actually a beneﬁ  t 
to UPD.
“The good news is the app worked as ad-
vertised,” Baxley said, “and it did summon 
a law enforcement response to that person.”
Students can download the app by search-
ing “TapShield” on the Apple iTunes or 
Google Play stores.
What else happened at Tuesday’s 
Student Senate meeting?
· Two replacement Senators — one permanent 
replacement (Carrie Wilkey, Lakeside) and one Summer B replacement (Wayne Selogy, Sopho-more) were approved by unanimous consent. There are still seven vacant Summer B replace-ment seats and one vacant permanent seat.
· Nathalia Ortega and Michael Poplewko were 
approved to seats on the Allocations Commit-tee, while Devon Leasure was approved for the Rules and Ethics Committee.UF campus safety headlines 
Tuesday’s Senate meeting IT WILL TAKE PLACE ON FRIDAY.
By Lauren Blakely
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bursts of color and patriotism will 
once again speckle the night sky over 
UF’s Flavet Field.
The College of Journalism and Com-
munications is hosting its July 3 staple to 
celebrate Independence Day.
Dubbed “Fanfares & Fireworks,” the 
event traditionally consists of three musi-
cal acts followed by the ﬁ  reworks display, said Sue Wagner, director of community relations for WRUF and WUFT.
This year’s event on Flavet Field will 
host Bears and Lions, a Gainesville group that dresses up in costumes of their name-
sakes while performing fun music aimed 
at both children and adults.
InCrisis, a rock ‘n’ roll group, will also 
be playing before the ﬁ  reworks.
“We really try to make it something 
family friendly and appropriate while still being enjoyable for everyone,” Wagner said of the lineup.
Glenn Rickard and Myra Monroe, both 
associated with the College of Journalism and Communications, will serve as em-cees for the night. 
The ﬁ  reworks, provided by Skylight-
ers of Florida, will begin at 9:40 p.m. and are set to live music from the Gainesville Community Band joined by The UF Billy Mitchell Drill Team Color Guard in a sa-lute to the armed forces.After being absent for a few years due 
to funding issues, the event has been steadily attracting guests for the past three years, drawing in crowds of more than 10,000 if the weather is nice, Wag-ner said.
Local businesses sponsor the event 
alongside the university to provide a safe and enjoyable experience, hosting the event annually on July 3 to avoid any conﬂ  icts with the City of Alachua.
“It’s our gift to the community,” Wag-
ner said.
Those who get to the ﬁ  eld early enough 
are invited to picnic before the main at-traction, though no dogs, sparklers or al-cohol is allowed. 
Guests who arrive after the ﬁ  eld is full 
can still watch from any of the parking garages or near Lake Alice, Wagner said.
“When you watch from the lake and 
all of the lights are reﬂ  ecting on the wa-ter, it’s almost better than watching it from the ﬁ  eld,” said Jackie Huber, a Gainesville resident and mother of two who attends annually. 
“This was the one time our tardiness 
paid off.”Fireworks will light up Flavet 
“When you watch from the lake and 
all of the lights are relecting on the 
water, it’s almost better than watching 
it from the ield.”
Jackie Huber
Gainesville residentThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Online professionalism: fallacy or reasonable?
Since the social media boom of the 2000s, 
there has been a common refrain amongst parents, professors and anyone generally over the age of 35: Watch what you post on Facebook. As the distinction between 
our online personas and our physical activities becomes increasingly blurred, more scrutiny than ever has been placed upon an individual to keep their online proﬁ  le proper, pristine and free of anything remotely vulgar or suggestive. Conven-tional wisdom holds that once college students enter the professional world, they’ll be surprised to learn how little that picture of them double ﬁ  sting PBR tallboys will impress their potential employers.
The impact one’s social media presence can have on 
one’s future has been at the forefront of my mind lately. As my own graduation rapidly approaches and I have more pressing matters to attend to, my time spent on social media has waned since my heyday in middle school. However, I manage to keep active; I share the articles I write for this very publication, post news articles that have drawn my ire and occasionally change my proﬁ  le picture to something “ri-diculous.”
Having recently attended the Bonnaroo Music and Arts 
Festival in Tennessee, there are a number of pictures online where I look “ridiculous.” The anything-goes attitude of the festival, in conjunction with how absurdly hot Tennessee gets in the summer, led me to adopt a wardrobe partially consisting of crop tops and shorts. For readers fortunate enough to have not made my acquaintance, it might help you to visualize this image by understanding that I am not what they call “in shape.” If I were to “deconstruct the joke” 
as it were, the “ridiculous” quality of the photos stems from 
a pronounced disconnect between the revealing quality of my clothing and how my body eschews the conventional standards of male attractiveness.
When the pictures were posted online, I hardly paid them 
a second thought. After all, it isn’t as though I’m depicted doing anything illegal; at worst, it could be said that holding a beer somehow paints me as a raucous individual. Mind you, I’m 21. It would be days before my mother would reach out to me, fearing that the pictures painted her son in an unprofessional light.
As much as I resented her comment, I under-
stood her fears — unlike her friend’s children, 
my online photos do not ﬁ  nd me in a button-
down suit, surrounded by dozens of my frater-nity brothers at a date function. Along those same lines, you won’t catch me on a foreign country’s beach rocking a neon tank top, my arms wrapped around a bevy of beautiful women. What you will 
ﬁ  nd are pictures of me wearing a Marlboro baseball cap, complemented by a shirt and shorts I bought at Goodwill, ﬂ  ailing my arms about and making stupid faces as I dance 
to the Solange Knowles classic “Losing You.” 
If I may dispense with the formalities for a moment, I’d 
like to bring attention to the single common denominator 
between the aforementioned photos: the subjects of these photos are all, to a degree, intoxicated. We know it, our parents know it, and if our potential employers ever gain the ability to bypass our Facebook privacy settings, they’ll know it as well. Everybody and their cousin knows what college students do when they congregate in large numbers, so why 
do we insist on maintaining a façade of virtue? For that mat-
ter, why are the sartorial choices of one group considered more “professional” than the other when, at the end of the day, we’re both engaging in healthy acts of self-expression?
It is my hope that my Facebook pictures don’t prevent 
me from living out my career ambitions. I have an above-average GPA, a fair amount of campus involvement and a large body of work that I am proud to call my own. Above all else, I know I’m a decent human being. If an employer 
doesn’t think I’ll be a competent writer because of the re-
grettable fashion choices I made in my early 20s, then I sup-pose that the onus is on me. But if Hunter S. Thompson could somehow manage to not only succeed, but thrive in the more conservative 60s, something tells me that I’ll be ﬁ  ne.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.Welcome back readers! We’re sure you’re settling back into 
the proper swing of things following our week off. In any 
event, it’s another week, another paper and another weekly 
dose of...
 
Darts and Laurels
First off, we’ve got conﬁ  rmation on something a lot of 
us tracking the news have suspected for a long time. Post-
ing snipers, pointing assault riﬂ  es and wantonly tear gas-
sing American citizens is an inappropriate response to pro-
tests, something the Justice Department has wholeheartedly agreed upon in their report on the police response to the Ferguson protests. 
It should go without saying that using military equip-
ment meant for use against a terrorist attack on unarmed citizens is a bad call, but we’ll go ahead and award the Justice Department a laurel for practicing an ounce of common sense, a resource that has been terribly lacking 
as of late.
Moving on to other topics more related to law enforce-
ment, it’s sad to see that ofﬁ  cers still don’t understand cer-
tain details surrounding the concept of right and wrong. 
Like, it’s right to stop and question a college student who 
smells of marijuana, but it’s wrong to conﬁ  scate the $11,000 you ﬁ  nd on his person, which he spent ﬁ  ve years saving mind you, under the pretense that he’s a drug dealer despite ﬁ  nding no evidence of guns, drugs or contraband on him. 
And it’s incredibly wrong for 13 different law enforcement 
agencies to request a share of the conﬁ  scated college stu-dent’s funds rather than returning it after ﬁ  nding nothing on him. Damn it, 11 of the agencies weren’t even vaguely con-
nected to the matter. For demonstrating greed and likely 
inﬂ  icting an unwarranted (get it?) amount of pain on the poor fellow’s life, we’ll gently drive this dart into the center of the Drug Enforcement Administration and its cronies.
Next up, the world’s lost a decent man today, and by 
decent man, we mean he organized the salvation of 669 Jewish children from Czechoslovakia before the eve of the Second World War, and by decent man we’d also like to 
highlight that he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II for 
services rendered to humanity. Sir Nicholas Winton, who died at the ripe old age of 106, risked the attention of gas-chamber-happy Gestapo agents and personally funded the fake paperwork and bribes to give those children a chance 
to not get gassed to death during the Holocaust. Oh, and 
he didn’t tell a soul about this until his wife found his pa-perwork and basically forced him to take credit for being a hero. In honor of the passing of a real world superhero, 
we’ll lay a laurel to his name.
Lastly, we’ll gently pin a laurel on the legalization of 
64-ounce growlers, which recently took effect in Florida. We’re also considering throwing a dart, because we’re fairly certain a good number of you readers are going to be wak-
ing up in the morning regretting your life choices after dis-
covering this fact. For the drunken activities sure to en-sue and the hangover to commence the day after, we’ll award a pinned laurel to this legislative development.
Also before we forget, have fun with your Fourth of July 
celebrations because GO ‘MUUUURICAAAA. 
For real though, please be safe this weekend.  
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
1
1312111098765432Publisher of
and
announces the opening for the position of
STUDENT MEMBER AT LARGE 
of the Board of Directors
This unpaid position may be filled by a
graduate or undergraduate student.
The application for this position is available at the reception desk at the entrance of 
the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W. University Avenue, each weekday 
between 1:00 and 4:00pm from now until July 1st.  Part of the application consists 
of short essays in answer to specific questions. 
More information is available for an applicant’s mandatory reading at the time an 
application is picked up. Applicants should allow themselves 10 to 15 minutes of reading time when picking up an application. The application must be returned to the same office before 3:00pm July 2nd. This is an absolute deadline. All returned 
applications will be copied and available to be read at The Alligator building prior 
to the selection meeting. Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public, Friday, July 17th 
beginning at 2:00pm. Applicants must be present to be considered. Applicants must be currently enrolled, degree-seeking college or university students. Board of Directors applicants cannot be current or recent past employees or trainees of Campus Communications, Inc.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc.
and
announces the opening for the position of
I’ve always driven a manual transmis-
sion car. In my house, an automatic 
just wasn’t an option. My parents have 
always driven manuals, and when I 
turned 15 and was ready to learn how 
to drive, that was what was available to me.
My very ﬁ  rst driving experience was in 
my neighbor’s 1989 Nissan Pathﬁ  nder. It was honestly pretty awkward. He had lived next door to me for the better part of my life, but we didn’t talk. He was four years older than me and at that time the age difference 
seemed expansive. I saw him around be-
cause he was better friends with my dad.
My dad likes to throw me into awkward 
situations. I had been bugging him about 
teaching me how to drive, and this was 
the solution he came up with. He told me my neighbor would be teaching me how to drive and that was that.
So we went out one extremely hot after-
noon. It was really uncomfortable. I stalled many, many times. The Pathﬁ  nder was old and hard to drive, the gears were ﬁ  nicky, the clutch was stiff. There was minimal talking 
involved, you know, because we weren’t friends. So the pressure was on. 
We went back to our houses after about an hour. I said thanks, and 
we went our separate ways.
He never gave me another les-
son, and I never asked. We con-
tinued our separate existences after that.
In the end it was my mom who 
taught me how to drive in the big parking lot at our local marina. If you had to learn how to drive in a manual car, you 
know how much more difﬁ  cult this makes 
it.
Obviously, ever since then I’ve been a 
professional. I’ve driven many different cars and am always excited to see what the 
clutch and the stick feel like. Oddly enough, 
I’ve always known more girls who’ve driv-en stick. Not necessarily by choice, but it makes them better humans and I think they 
realize it.
I had the pleasure a couple weekends 
ago of teaching my guy friend how to drive 
stick. This is the third guy friend I’ve taught. My dad has always told me I am incredibly impatient and a bad teacher, so in the best interest of my clutch and my gearbox, I tried to channel an 
inner peace.
I think it worked out in my fa-
vor because he got it right the ﬁ  rst 
time. He did stall the car eventu-ally, but he didn’t on the ﬁ  rst try. 
I have to say I was incredibly im-
pressed. I give credit where credit 
is due, which means I also have to give cred-it to my car, Tom. As a 2011 Altima Coupe, I 
think he is relatively easy to drive. He is no 
1989 Pathﬁ  nder. Even my best friend’s Mini Cooper has a stiffer clutch. Tom shifts into gear like jelly.
Nevertheless, my friend got it on the ﬁ  rst 
try. Unfortunately, he doesn’t seem to have the need for speed. He drives an Inﬁ  niti G37 Coupe himself, and has Wrangler dreams, so I was hoping to convert him over to the 
manual transmission club. When we ﬁ  n-
ished our lesson he really baited me by say-ing, “I understand why you drive so aggres-sively now. Driving stick really makes you want to go fast.” I asked him if his next car would be a stick then, and he still said no.
This is disappointing to me because 
the last guy friend I taught converted. We 
don’t talk much anymore, but he told me 
recently that he has proudly mastered driv-ing stick in his friend’s car. Whether it’s a Land Cruiser, Jeep or GT-R he ends up with next, I know it’ll be a stick. That makes me 
pretty happy.
I have a kind of melodramatic, worst-
case scenario for if you don’t know how to 
drive stick. Suppose you are being chased 
down by a bloodthirsty murderer and the 
only unlocked car you ﬁ  nd is a manual. What are you going to do? Well if you know how to drive stick, you will drive off to safe-ty and away from your attacker.
Not only could driving stick save your 
life in a rare scenario, but it’s also really fun and gives you more control over your car. I know not everyone has the opportunity to 
drive stick or learn, but if the opportunity 
presents itself, I highly recommend it. I’m sorry I can’t teach each of you personally.
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Thursdays.
Forget automatic: Learning how to drive stick makes you a better personColumn
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
By The Associated Press
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Re-
puted mobster Anthony “Big Tony” 
Moscatiello was convicted of ﬁ  rst-de-
gree murder Wednesday in the 2001 
slaying of a prominent South Florida businessman during a power strug-gle over a lucrative ﬂ  eet of gambling 
ships.
The jury also found Moscatiello, 
77, guilty of murder conspiracy in the 
shooting death of Konstantinos “Gus” Boulis, founder of SunCruz Casinos 
and Miami Subs restaurants. Evidence 
showed Boulis was killed by a mob hit man, and Moscatiello was accused of ordering the slaying. He faces a pos-
sible sentence of death or life in prison when sentencing Sept. 16.  
Moscatiello’s wife fainted after the 
verdict was read.
A mistrial was declared for Mosca-
tiello in 2013 because his attorney be-
came ill. Anthony “Little Tony” Ferra-
ri, who handled South Florida matters 
for Moscatiello, was convicted previ-ously and sentenced to life in prison.
Prosecutors said Moscatiello was a 
member of New York’s Gambino crime family when he issued the fateful or-der for a hit. Moscatiello did not testify in his own defense, but his lawyers in-sisted Ferrari and others were to blame 
for the Feb. 6, 2001, slaying.
At the time, Boulis, 51, was trying 
to retake control of SunCruz after sell-
ing it to businessman Adam Kidan and his partner, former Washington pow-
erhouse lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Kidan 
paid Moscatiello and Ferrari thousands of dollars a month to handle security and other issues — including, prosecu-
tors said, the use of Moscatiello’s al-
leged mob ties for protection.
“He’s the person everybody an-
swers to,” Assistant State Attorney Gregg Rossman said in a closing argu-
ment. “It all leads right back to him.”
Key evidence included phone calls 
from Ferrari to Moscatiello, who was 
in New York, shortly after Boulis was 
fatally shot by a gunman who pulled 
up next to his car as he left his ofﬁ  ce. Other organized crime ﬁ  gures and a former Ferrari associate testiﬁ  ed that Moscatiello approached them initially 
about getting rid of Boulis before hir-
ing hit man John “J.J.” Gurino to do the deed.Mobster convicted of 1st-degree murder
in the U.S. to opt out of ﬂ  ying or driving.
Instead, Palma said she will ride the GMG bus.
The 19-year-old didn’t seem particularly enthusias-
tic about the six-hour bus trip, but she said, “It gets me there.”
Because of the holiday festivals, Palma said she ex-
pects a lot of trafﬁ  c, which is why she doesn’t plan on watching an elaborate ﬁ  reworks show.
“The craziest show comes with the craziest trafﬁ  c,” 
she said.
Palma will probably drive to Hollywood Beach, she 
said, where she can sit on top of her Prius and watch the sky light up.
Cirillo said she and her family don’t have any particu-
lar traditions, but she’s sure they’ll still see ﬁ  reworks.
She’ll enjoy eating American food and will decorate 
herself in the colors of the ﬂ  ag, she said.
“I try to get my red, white and blue on,” Cirillo said.Increased holiday road trips aren’t without their hic-
cups, though. AAA predicts it will service almost 360,000 drivers this weekend.
Cirillo said she tries to avoid car mishaps by having 
her dad check her Honda’s oil and tire pressure.
She said she looks forward to being in Fort Pierce, 
where she can visit her grandparents, mom and 20-year-old brother.
While her brother sets off “crazy” ﬁ  reworks, Cirillo 
said she will probably enjoy the Fourth’s sparklers.
“I’m more of just a sparkler person,” she said.TRAVEL,  from pg1Traic is expected 
to increase, too
Rides” option appear on the app.
If a ride starts or ends outside of the designated area, which 
covers the majority of midtown and downtown as well as all of 
the UF campus, the discount will not apply.
If students split the fare, all riders who have the Safe Ride op-
tion will receive the discount.
Murphy said SG originally budgeted $25,000 for the trial run. However, SG used less than $6,000 of the budget during the trial.
Murphy said the Summer B plan with Uber should also cost 
about $6,000.
With the cost being lower than originally anticipated, Murphy 
said some ideas have been discussed in order to maximize the use of the discount with Uber.
These include the potential to have three free rides per stu-
dent per semester. 
However, no speciﬁ  c details for long-term projects have been 
ﬁ  nalized.UBER,  from pg1Fares must start, inish in designated area
Road trip safety 
tips from AAA:
 Get in the habit of conducting periodic 
safety checks to make sure your vehicle is in good operating condition.
 A safety check includes tires, lights, belts, hoses, /f_l  uids and windshield wipers.
 Read your owner’s manual to clearly understand which dash lights or signals indicate your vehicle is not operating properly and what to do in such situations.
 Before a road trip, contact AAA to arrange for a free test of your vehicle’s battery, starting and charging system. /T_h  is can help determine how much life is le/f_t   in your battery and if any other components need repairs.
 Program your cell phone with emergency numbers, including that of your roadside assistance provider, and keep a backup written list in your glove compartment.
 Always carry a well-stocked emergency kit and familiarize yourself with the use of safety /f_l  ares, warning triangles and other emergency equipment.
to be putting 
down rockWife fainted after verdictKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
T om Miller hosts staged reading, show
See what local performance artist T om Miller has been working on, pg. 12What’s Inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “New Girl” edition, pg. 10The Avenue reviews Nate Ruess’ debut album, pg. 11THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Punk-rock band Abandon the Midwest will perform at 9:30 p.m. tonight at the High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. The Orlando-based quartet will once again bring its contagious energy to the Gainesville audience.
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Punk-rock quartet Abandon the 
Midwest is returning to Gainesville 
tonight, and if you’re lucky, you 
might catch them throwing the oc-
casional beer can at one another.
The Orlando-based band will 
perform at High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 
9 p.m., and the show begins at 9:30 p.m. Tickets are available for $6.
The members, who are no 
strangers to Gainesville, said they 
always enjoy themselves when 
they’re in town, and they’re look-ing to expand their Gator fan base.
“We’re really putting an effort 
in trying to gain some fans in that market,” said vocalist and guitar-ist Matt Harmon. “It’s obviously a college town, but I think it’s more than that.”
In 2011, the band formed with 
Harmon, drummer and vocalist Jason Dodaro and bass player Tra-vis Jacobsen. In 2012, the band ﬁ  nalized its lineup when BJ Halls joined the band as a guitarist and 
vocalist.
“If you are fans of old-school 
pop punk like NOFX and Lawrence 
Arms, you will love ATM,” said Pat 
Lavery, owner of Glory Days Pres-
ents.
Tonight, the friends will be on 
stage to have a good time spread-ing their contagious energy to the 
audience. The punk rockers aim to 
deliver a high-energy performance, granting people something worth watching.
“We’re punk rock, but like 
we’re happy, fun, sing-along, 
good-time punk rock,” Harmon 
said.
The members, who interact 
with each other and the audience during their live shows, tend to keep an open attitude about what-ever happens. Harmon recalled a past show where he hopped off the stage to dance with an older wom-
an during a live set. She bought 
them shots when the show was over.
Whether they’re singing songs 
about cheesy movies, zombies, being single or getting drunk and doing crazy things, they write and 
perform without trying to present 
themselves in a certain way.
“If I were to say anything about 
the band and the way that I write, I think the most enduring quality for 
me, really, is at least we’re being 
honest,” Halls said.
Their honest approach to all 
aspects of the band brings them 
together, making the four-piece a single unit. They emphasized that 
they’re not just a group of musi-
cians on stage performing, but 
they’re friends who get to do all of it together.
Their hidden talent? “We tend to be really quick 
when it comes to jokes with each other,” Harmon joked. “Terrible at naming our band and our record but, like, really good at making fun 
of each other.”
Punk band Abandon the Midwest returns to GNV tonight
The quartet will perform at High Dive
On this righteous day, we celebrate the brave souls who 
made the American dream a reality. This reality was founded 
on the grounds that justice is needed for all. This is the one 
day of the year  when we all come together and applaud the 
fact that people fought to make the land of the brave. As Americans, it is our duty to honor this day the way a true patriot would — we give it our all or we give nothing.
·  Red, white and blue. These should be the only colors 
you allow yourself to wear on this day. Yes, even your socks and underwear.
·  Beer, burgers and hotdogs should be the only food you consume. All of this food should be made on a grill by a guy or gal in an American ﬂ  ag apron.
· If football is not included in some part of your day, 
you’ve done it wrong. A good Fourth of July always involves shirtless men in a green ﬁ  eld throwing a football — give or take the six packs.
·  Go to as many pool parties and barbecues as humanly 
possible. After all, it is the American duty to bestow equality.
·  Go to a ﬁ  reworks show. If you really want to present 
the true American way, create your own ﬁ  reworks show.
·  If it rains, do not back out. You’re an American!·  At one point in your day, you 
must listen to the national anthem. This will probably be an involuntary ation, 
but you must sing it proud and dreadfully loud.
·  Strangers are no longer strangers on this day; they are 
your fellow Americans. Nothing beats a party full of people 
who bleed red, white and blue.
So there you have it, folks. Make sure that come Satur-
day, you are honoring the fearless men and women who fought to make this beautiful country the way it is today. Be safe, have fun, and most importantly, God bless America!Rock the Fourth like an American
By Michaela Beeda
Avenue WriterTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
By Daniela Garcia
Avenue Writer
Take a sip when…
 Jess sings
 Someone tries to hit on 
Cece
 Someone does an 
impression
 The gang goes to the bar
 Nick tries to ﬁ  x somethingTake a shot when…
 Schmidt  has  to  put  money 
in  the jar
 Thereʼs a ﬂ  ashback
 There is a Fat Schmidt 
reference
 Nick makes the “turtle 
face”
Finish your drink when…
 Jess has a failed 
comeback
 Winston takes something 
too far
 You see Jessʼ eyebrowsThe roommates of apartment 
4D would agree there are two ways 
to spend your ﬁ  rst weekend of the semester. Option one: You could cuddle up on the couch and binge 
watch “Dirty Dancing” while hyster-
ically crying into a pillow — Jessica Day style. Option two: You could go crazy with your friends and attempt to play a game of “True American.” With both options being a bit ex-treme, it’s best to just settle for a happy medium. Yes, it’s ﬁ  nally here — a “New Girl” drinking game!
How to get started? Invite over 
your Nick Miller-like friend to help 
whip up the drinks, take a seat on 
the couch with your friends, tune in to your favorite season, and at last, let the game begin. The Fox sitcom follows the daily lives and shenani-gans of four roommates living in a loft in California. With all room-mates in their early 30s trying to ﬁ  nd love and stable careers, they often run into some strange scenarios.
If you and your friends are any-
thing like the tenants of apartment 4D, then you’ll have no trouble fol-lowing the rules to this game.
 If Nick Miller were writing this, 
he would probably recommend staying away from Absinthe.
New GirlFUN. ’S NATE RUESS RELEASES DEBUT SOLO ALBUM ff the Record           
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
It’s both hopeful and hopeless, a dramatic 
epic from beginning to end.
Singer/songwriter Nate Ruess, best known 
as the voice behind the band fun., released his debut solo album, “Grand Romantic,” on June 
16  via Fueled by Ramen.
Ruess’ album begins with an elegantly or-
chestrated introduction teeming with the toll 
of bells and the ominous falsettos of a church 
choir.
Hellish laughter marks the start of the al-bum’s ﬁ  rst and most feral track, 
“AhHa.” With a pounding drumline leading the way, Ruess pulls the listener through reckless bursts of emotion, jumping from aggressive resentment to soothing introspection before launching into foot-stomping 
elation and back again. Unshakably 
personal lyrics detail Ruess’ unexpected rise to fame and the pitfalls he fell into on the way.  “AhHa” ultimately epitomizes Ruess’ transi-tioning from lead singer to solo artist.
“You Light My Fire” is a ﬂ  uorescently up-
beat love song that pays homage to ‘80s pop. As Ruess’ tenor whimsically ﬂ  oats over handclaps and xylophone keys, he gets into a ﬁ  ght with his signiﬁ  -cant other, ultimately choosing love over war. The structure of the song is repetitive, but Ruess manages to dodge monotony by sprinkling un-
predictable inﬂ  ections throughout. 
The music around him grows more complex 
as the song progresses, and eventually claps turn to drums and guitar notes to power chords.
The ﬁ  nal half of the album is much more 
solemn than the ﬁ  rst, and “It Only Gets Much Worse” provides peak pessimism in an oth-erwise optimistic assortment. Ruess’ striking voice transcends the lonesome piano, which guides him as he belts out tales of desperate realization. After abiding by it for most of the album, he seems disenchanted with his love-conquers-all mentality. About halfway 
through the song, a string arrangement breaks 
into the mix, adding density to the glum intro-spection. 
Even after marching through the highest 
heights, Ruess is never too proud to reveal his most vulnerable lows. That’s what separates him from your run-of-the-mill pop star.  
12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
“BRIDESMAIDS” DIRECTOR PAUL FEIG 
DELIVERS ANOTHER CLEVER, BLUNT 
COMEDY TO THE BOX OFFICE
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
Director Paul Feig, who brought us the notable 
favorite “Bridesmaids,” released his new Melissa 
McCarthy collaboration “Spy” on June 5.
The R-rated flick stars McCarthy as Susan Coo-
per, a CIA desk jockey who becomes hurled into 
action as a field agent with the goal 
of avenging Agent Bradley Fine, 
her fallen partner played by Jude Law. While the film makes use of typical elements seen in most 
action-comedy films, the well-
scripted raunchy dialogue sets it 
apart as a must-see feature.
What could have easily been a two-hour ram-
page of distasteful fat jokes and physical mishaps instead became a clever, blunt comedy where per-
sonalities and actions are the butts of the jokes, 
not appearances.
McCarthy is able to shine under this treatment, 
giving an impressive performance that strays from ones where the audience is meant to laugh at her, 
not with her. The rest of the bumbling cast also 
adds to the fun, particularly Rose Byrne and Miran-da Hart. Byrne plays Rayna Boyanov, an intimidat-ing yet snooty antagonist involved in Fine’s death 
and the selling of nuclear weapons. Hart debuts as 
Nancy Artingstall, Susan’s goofy best friend who also works for the CIA.
The three play off each other exceptionally 
well, which is a nice change for the usually male-
dominated genre. Jason Statham also makes a 
memorable appearance as a bitter and ineffective agent, and perhaps less notably but just as amus-ing is a cameo by rapper 50 Cent, who gets tangled 
up in the fray.
Despite some of its plot points being predict-
able, “Spy” manages to be surprising and amusing 
through its divergence from regular dumb com-edies. The timing of one-liners and the progres-
sive humor is refreshing, and poignant themes of 
friendship and acceptance make for a more satis-fying experience. While there are elements of ro-mance, Feig chooses to flip the script at the end in 
a way that will make viewers rejoice.
With its strong performances and sharp writing, 
the movie proves to be another win for Paul Feig. 
“Spy” might just be the year’s best comedy so far, making it worth an overpriced ticket to have some 
genuine laughs.‘Spy’ exceeds 
expectations 
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
A performance artist and UF student 
redefines normalcy in his new play, 
UMMU.
Tom Miller, 49, is a man of many 
hats. Student, director, writer and pho-
tographer — it seems to be a never-end-
ing list. Currently, Miller is a straight-A student and on the Dean’s List for his academic merits at the UF School of Theatre and Dance, where he studies theater. 
Miller defines himself as a perfor-
mance artist, and his current project is a play called UMMU, a story about three 
characters and the subversion of reality.
UMMU is Miller’s baby in every 
sense. He said he’s been dreaming up 
the play for nearly 20 years. His hard work paid off last weekend as the first staged reading of the play premiered at the Acrosstown.
While the play isn’t yet finished, 
Miller said he has high hopes for the end product. He painted a picture of the process the play has gone through in a number of stages and said the final stage will be submitting the work to a film festival.
“It breaks the fifth wall of theater,” 
Miller said. “It’s already mind-bending in about six directions before you even 
get into it.”
Miller said he likes weird. He shies 
away from the normal constructs of 
reality and encourages others to join him in this new way of thinking. Ev-ery Monday night, the Tom Miller Show happens at Maude’s Classic Café, also known to Gainesville natives as the Sidecar.“It was designed to be much more 
than an open mic,” Miller said. “It was designed to push boundaries, test lim-its and explore extremes…. Our show isn’t always entertaining; sometimes it is painful, but it is artistic and occasion-ally profound.”
The Tom Miller Show is open and 
free for the public. While Miller said the show is ongoing, things usually get 
revved up at about 10:30 p.m.
For now, UMMU is classified as “in 
the works.” Miller praises the three 
readers from the first staged reading: Shamrock McShane, Katrina Dailey and Michael Bobbitt. He said he considers them to be the current cast and hopes they will continue on as the play pro-gresses and eventually becomes a fin-
ished product.
By now, readers have probably ques-
tioned the play’s title.
“I’ll have to leave you with some 
mystery on that one,” Miller said. “But 
I will share that it means the same for-ward as backward, as do many things.”Performance artist hosts staged reading
Danielle  Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Paul Cohen, who plays Reverend Angel Dust, (left) preaches about unfair government and Doobietopia while T om 
Miller (right) hypes the crowd with jokes Monday night at Maude’s Sidecar Cafe during the T om Miller show.
Play’s title remains a mysteryTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    7-2-15-36-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2 bedroom apt for rent, 10 minutes from campus. Nice community. Furnished. Asking $585. First month down. No central heat/AC, no pets, no smoking/drinking/drugs. Grad stu-dent preferred. Call Mr. Parker 352-213-5942    8-2-15-5-1
MASTER BR/BA for rent in 2BR/2BAfurnished condo. Close to campus & Shands,on 3 bus routes. $400/mo. 1/2 utils.Free wifi/cable. Short-term. Aug - Dec 28th.Possibly 1 yr. 727-815-2219     7-16-15-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA 
house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    7-7-15-46-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
7-30-15-30-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, 
Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   7-9-15-16-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-2-15-5-2
1 BR/ 1 BA Apt - Wifi, washer, and dryer included. Granite counter tops. Nice com-
munity close to Archer, UF main campus and Shands. With 3 bus routes. Call 407-697-1571    7-9-15-5-2ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
We have a 1br, or 2br units available in Holly Heights for $425-$575. Also available in Tower Oaks a 2br/2ba unit for $525. As well as 2br units available in Tower Village for $525-$650. 352-224-5011   7-23-15-7-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    7-2-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5Condo, 1 bedroom 1 bath,
ground floor. On bus route to UF/Shands/VA. 
$64,500.For info 352-234-3018.    7-9-3-5
FSBO, 5 Ac. Newberry Fl.
3BR, 2Bath + Barn $99.999.
706-756-7099 or 706-645-3852    7-9-15-3-5
Mountains of NCWon't last at this price!2-story hand-crafted cabinon 1.68 acres. Only $69,900Needs work. 828-286-1666   7-2-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-111For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31918-17-25-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
JAGUAR - X-TYPE, 2002
4-door sport sedan. Excellent condition. 
5-speed. $6500/OBO. Call 352-375-2095    
7-2-15-2-12
Car for Sale: Jetta 2.5 L Sedan 4D 2007 
100000 MilesClean title & surface, all keys, remotes, books, and a clean car fax. All maintenance up to date, and great tires. Ask for $5000.00Call/Text Chris: 352-215-2688    7-2-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
13 Wanted 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14GESTATIONAL SURROGATE
1 yr room & board + $500/mo + health ins.   
Prefer 20-38 Healthy + had at least 1  baby. 
Open to offers. TEXT ONLY-305 582 9800   
7-9-15-14-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT - IMMEDIATE
$8.10/hr, flex hrs, 20 hrs min. Word typing 
skills, Excel a plus. CV & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com  7-14-15-
10-14
Coastal Georgia In-residence position
Housekeeper/Server Greyfield Innon Cumberland Island.Dining experience and some knowledge of wine required. $28,500/year with room and board included.Inquire seashore@greyfieldinn.com    7-21-15-7-14retired faculty seeks student for chores: vacuum, dust, windows, weed, plant flowers, etc. flexible 5-8 hours week. $12 hour. safe gated neighborhood 3 miles from campus on RTS #10 route. send resume to:ufstudentjob@cox.net       7-9-15-4-14
Camp counselors for Aug 3-14Pre-camp train & plan time reqHighly structured small campFor info or apply by 7/10 @UCG 1624 nw 5th ave 378-3500   7-7-15-3-14
RESEARCH ASSISTANTpart time at womens biomedical company near campus - java, php, html, online video,   networking. One page resume to science@mammacare.com  7-2-15-2-14
HELP WANTED: VAPE SHOPlooking for an experienced vaping/coil build -
er. Retail experience a plus. Apply in person Escape2Vape 12pm - 5pm 7327 NW 4th Blvd Gainesville, FL  7-14-14-5-14
Hiring music instructors to teach
all instruments including guitar, violin,
flute, saxophone, brass, piano & more.
Email resume/credentials to
EdCenter@hoggtownemusic.com
Out of courtesy, we ask that you
do not call the store.
All emails will be answered promptly
7-9-15-14-14Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    7-2-1-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    7-2-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new ca-reer? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghiway.com EOE    7-2-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 
50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    7-2-1-14University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking a PeopleSoft Systems Administrator/Programmer 3 to perform production and non-production maintenance and installa -
tion of a variety of hardware and software systems including PeopleSoft web services, application and database servers. Performs analysis, modification, installation, testing, deployment & maintenance of multiple areas, including patches/updates/fixes to: Server hardware/firmware, Operating systems/envi-ronments, Web servers, Application servers, Databases, and Applications. Follows for-malized change management and incident management processes. Responsible for the preparation and modification of techni-cal documentation, including system ar-chitecture, lifecycle management, disaster recovery and business continuity informa-tion. Keeps documentation current by pe-riodic reviews with technical peers. Works with technical peers to build/review capacity documentation used for quarterly reporting. Works with management on capacity plan -
ning and quarterly system reports. Ensures knowledgebase/playbook reflect output of Tier 2 support efforts. Responsible for en-suring the performance and reliability of multiple systems. Responsible for the track-ing of service requests. Responsible for the implementation and support of Tier 2 requests including after-hour and weekend rotations. Enters/Tracks system incidents/problems/changes via request-tracking sys-tem. Diagnoses, isolates and debugs com-plex PeopleSoft related hardware and/or software issues that are not defined in inter-nal knowledgebase / playbook and performs problem resolution. Plans and executes di-saster recovery activity. Provides direction to Tier 1 and 2 support. Manages expectations with customers and management on priority issues. Formulates and implements monitor-ing systems procedures and work plans on SiteScope.Position requires a Bachelor's in any Computing/Management Information Systems field (foreign equivalent accept-able) and two years of information technolo -
gy related experience. Position also requires advanced knowledge of PeopleSoft systems administration and other IT applications such as Word, Excel, and Visio; advanced knowledge of RedHat and/or Windows OS; advanced knowledge of n-tier applications such as browser, web, app, and db; and an intermediate to advanced understanding of Oracle database systems concepts. 
To apply, please send the following docu-
ments to it_bc_hr@ufl.edu with reference to System Administrator/Programmer 3 in the subject line:1) Cover Letter or Letter of Interest2) Curriculum Vitae or Resume3) Optional: List of References
All required documents must be submitted 
by the close of business on July 31, 2015.    7-2-1-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.  7-30-15-9-14
ACROSS
1 “Elementary”
network
4 Eponymous
obstetrician
Fernand
10 “Oh, go on!”14 __ provençale15 Part of the plot16 Gardening tool17 *Serious
swearing
19 Banded
gemstone
20 Dorm room item
21 Really trouble,
with “at”
23 Help on the way
up
24 *Hunt’s rival
29 31-Down, for
one
31 Former Honda
model
32 Honda division33 Perform for36 Target of some
sprays
37 *Brunch choice41 Ref. book42 Come to light43 Not from a 
bottle
45 Expected amt. of
repairs
46 It may be
blessed
51 *Camera
attachment
53 Hip bones
54 Modern
detective fiction
pioneer
55 Captain’s
heading
58 Shade similar to
bright turquoise
61 Cocktail garnish,
and a hint toletters hidden inthe answers tostarred clues
64 Managing ed.’s
concern
65 List closing
66 Burns negative67 Adjust for space,
say
68 Webster’s
shelfmate
69 Come to a
conclusionDOWN
1 Longtime maker
of convertibles
2 Have a tantrum
3 Solution for
contacts
4 Trunk projection5 Actress Heche6 Attitude7 Santa __
8 Proactiv target
9 Great-aunt of
Drew
10 Diplomatic code11 John, in
Scotland
12 __ blue13 Bewitch18 MIT grad, often22 Doctor’s org.24 Sarcastic quality25 Use a threat to
get
26 Like Botticelli’s
Venus
27 Easy pace28 Place for a plug30 Rental ad abbr.31 “Habanera”
singer
34 Jeans giant35 “Wow!” in texts37 Skid row regular
38 Plasm lead-in39 Statute opposed
by the Sons of
Liberty
40 Wide size41 Dairy dept.
quantity
44 Mideast initials47 Mountaintop allure48 “Airplane!” heroine49 Xterra maker
50 Covered in ink,
with “up”
52 Conger catcher55 Former North
Carolina senator
Elizabeth
56 Cohesive group
57 Cockpit
announcements,briefly
58 Solitaire base card59 Four times a day,
in an Rx
60 Ocean State sch.62 WWII arena63 GQ, e.g., briefly
By Robert E. Lee Morris©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/02/1507/02/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 2, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 866-314-5838    7-2-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    7-2-1-16Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Moving? Don't fuss leave it to us! GUARANTEED to get your security deposit back. Hall of Fame InEx Cleaning a Licensed & Insured cleaning service. Call today (352)246-3264    7-16-15-5-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    7-2-1-15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    7-2-1-15
15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 15 Services 15 ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Vote online
Which UF team was the best in the
2014-15 season: softball orgymnastics? Vote online atwww.alligator.org/sports. Harrison Bader, Richie Martin and several other former Gators have made their professional baseball debuts. Read the story on page 19. 
Florida men ﬁ  nish fourth in Capital One Cup
The Florida Gators ﬁ  nished in fourth place in the men's Capital One Cup. 
Four top-10 ﬁ  nishes helped the Gators ﬁ  nish with 84 points. In the ﬁ  ve-year history of the Capital One Cup, Florida is the only program to ﬁ  nish each season in the men's and women's top 10. WOMEN'S WORLD CUP
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
 
Former Florida Gator Abby 
Wambach and the United 
States Women’s National 
Team are slated to compete for their third World Cup title Sunday against Japan in a re-
match of the 2011 Women’s 
World Cup ﬁ  nale.
During her time in 
Gainesville from 1998-2001, the Rochester, New York, 
native was named to the 
All-Southeastern Conference team every year and was the SEC Player of the Year in 
2000 and 2001.
In 1998, Wambach and the Gators won their only Nation-al Championship in school 
history.
Wambach, the UF career 
leader in goals (96), assists 
(50) and points (242) has 
played a reduced role for the national team during her fourth and ﬁ  nal World Cup this summer.
This summer she’s transi-
tioned from a full-time starter to substitute, and during the group stage of the World 
Cup, critics thought her scor-
ing troubles were due to her not playing regularly for a club.
Wambach is the only 
player on the United States Women’s National Team ros-
ter that is unafﬁ  liated with a 
soccer club.
She was able to silence 
the critics in the ﬁ  nal group 
stage match against Nigeria 
when she scored her 14th ca-reer World Cup goal, putting her in a tie for second on the all-time list behind Brazil’s 
Marta, who has 15. 
Before the tournament, 
head coach Jill Ellis told 
Wambach that her role would 
not be predetermined but 
would be decided by the situ-ation the team is in. 
“I know Abby, I know big 
moments, I know she’ll de-USWNT set for Final rematch THE GATORS OPEN THE 
SEASON ON AUG. 15.
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
 
UF has released its 2015 soccer sched-
ule.
The Gators open the season at home on 
Aug. 15 against Florida Gulf Coast and will 
play eight non-conference games.
All but one of the non-conference 
matchups will be played in the state of 
Florida and the team will only travel out of state seven times including a potential Southeastern Conference tournament ap-pearance.
The Gators will take on the defending 
champion Florida State Seminoles on Aug. 
30.
In the last ﬁ  ve meetings, the Gators 
trail FSU 3-2 in the series and most recent-ly won 2-1 in Tallahassee.
The six other non-conference oppo-
nents the Gators will face in 2015 are UCF, 
Ohio State, Miami, Oklahoma State, Jack-sonville and FIU. 
Last season, the Gators went an un-
defeated 11-0 in the state of Florida and outscored their opponents 35-9.
The team went 5-2 in non-conference 
games in 2014.
The Gators ended 
the 2014 campaign af-ter a loss to Stanford in the NCAA Quarterﬁ  nals that was decided by 
penalty kicks.
In 2014, the Gators 
ﬁ  nished 17-4-2, losing all four games on the road.
Coach Becky Burleigh is entering her 
21st season as head coach of the Gators, who added 15 players to the roster for the 2015 season.UF reveals soccer scheduleALLIGATOR AWARDS
With the start of the Summer B semes-
ter and the end of the 2014-2015 collegiate athletic season, it’s time 
for another installment of the an-
nual Alligator Awards. This week, 
Alligator editor-in-chief Jordan McPherson and alligatorSports assistant editor Luis Torres de-
bate which of UF’s national championship win-
ning teams — the softball team or the gymnas-tics team — deserves the title of “Best Team.”
Jordan:  Ah, the good ole championship 
debate. This is one for the ages. 
But when you look at the big picture, Flori-
da’s gymnastics team is clearly the best out of UF’s two title winners. 
Up and down all four event lineups, there 
was not a ﬂ  aw to be found. 
It wasn’t just the Kytra Hunters and Bridget 
Sloans who carried the team — heck, Sloan was out for most of the year with a severely sprained ankle. 
Rather, this year’s gymnastics team was the 
epitome of a team. 
In 14 meets this year, the Gators only used 
the same meet lineup twice: The NCAA Re-gional and the Super Six which resulted in the 
team’s third national title in as many years. 
Coach Rhonda Faehn relied on every gym-
nast — from bars specialist Bianca Dancose-
Giambattisto to freshman phenoms Kennedy Baker and Alex McMurtry and everyone in be-tween — to perform to the best of her ability. 
Every gymnast needed to be on her game, 
every move needed to be executed perfectly and every performance needed to be spot on. 
For the third straight year, Florida did just 
that.Luis:  Yes Jor-
dan, the UF gymnas-tics team had a great 
season and won its 
third consecutive national title, but it doesn’t come close 
to what the softball 
team did this year. 
The Gators soft-
ball team won its second-straight national title behind the postseason dominance of Lauren 
Haeger. Her numbers in the Women’s College World Series were 
ﬂ  at out ridiculous as 
she went 4-1 with a 
1.17 ERA while strik-ing out 20 in ﬁ  ve starts. 
But while there 
are some people who say she’s the only reason that the 
team won this year’s title, the rest of the team 
played a huge part just like the entire gymnas-
tics roster. Kelsey Stewart was the Southeast-ern Conference Player of the Year after hitting a ridiculous .536 in conference play and having 
45 hits in just 23 conference games. The team 
had its own freshmen who stepped up in a big way during the beginning of the season and in the postseason with Aleshia Ocasio and Nicole 
DeWitt.
 In a pressure-ﬁ  lled game, Ocasio was bril-
liant in Game 1 of the WCWS series against the 
Michigan Wolverines. 
The freshman tossed six innings while al-
lowing just two runs en route to the Gators winning 3-2 and having a 1-0 advantage in the WCWS ﬁ  nale. Coach Tim Walton made some critical moves during the season, and for the 
second straight year Florida came out on top.
Jordan:  The softball team’s run this year 
was nothing short of spectacular. There’s no 
way to deny that. But let’s be honest. 
Lauren Haeger carried that team. You can argue Kelsey Stewart’s accomplish-
ments at the plate were a factor as well, but it was Haeger’s team. Without her, the softball 
team wouldn’t have accomplished half of what 
it did this year. 
If Haeger had the slightest of struggles, who 
would have replaced her? Ocasio, the fresh-man whose highs were equalled by a share of lows? Delanie Gourley, the sophomore who 
was moved to a relief pitcher role due to her 
erraticness as a starter? Simply put, Haeger’s production made the team. 
UF gymnastics, on the other hand, was able 
to utilize its depth. When Sloan — arguably 
Florida’s all-around leader — sprained her 
ankle in the season opener, the Gators didn’t Which Florida Gators team was the best in 2014-15: Softball or gymnastics?
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Luis
T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
The Florida softball team won its second-straight national championship after 
the Gators defeated Michigan 4-1 on June 3. 
 SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 18
SEE WORLD CUP,  PAGE 19Burleigh
falter. Multiple gymnasts who ﬂ  y under the ra-
dar to the average fan — Rachel Spicer, Claire Boyce, Ericha Fassbender, the list keeps go-
ing — took on extra routines to make up for 
Sloan’s absence. 
And where was the drop off? Oh yeah, there 
wasn’t one. 
In UF’s ﬁ  ve meets without Sloan, the Gators 
had an average score of 197.405. In the nine where Sloan performed at least one rotation, UF’s average score was 197.69. Not too much of a difference. The same probably wouldn’t 
have been said for the softball team if Haeger 
wasn’t in the circle.
Luis:  Sure, Haeger was an integral part of 
the team and was Florida’s best player, but don’t say that to Walton. 
He said more than once during the year that 
Stewart was the engine of the team that made them chug. I agree with you that it would’ve been hard for the team to replace Haeger had 
she struggled or went down with an injury, but 
I just can’t ﬁ  nd myself saying that arguably the best softball coach in the country — Walton — wouldn’t have made the necessary adjust-ments to give his team the best chance to make 
it as far as they did. 
As for Gourley, she was great at the begin-
ning of the season before the dreaded sopho-
more slump got to her. But Walton still had 
enough conﬁ  dence in her to throw her out in 
the opening game of the WCWS series and she got the save. 
And as for the gymnastics team, they lost 
two meets without Sloan at 100 percent. She 
came back for the LSU meet, but she only com-
peted on bars and UF lost 197.950-197.425. 
You can’t tell me that she wasn’t a huge 
difference during the time she was missing, be-
cause if she's competing in at least three events 
during those two meets, there’s no way Florida would’ve lost. Also, the softball team played in 67 games this year when compared to the gymnastics team competing in just 17 meets. Softball is a grind and I’m not saying gym-
nastics isn’t, but the amount of games that Florida had to play in the span of a little over four months, really just shows how much they accomplished this season.
Jordan:  The amount of games/meets each 
team plays is irrelevant. 
Sure, the softball team played four times 
as many games as the gymnastics team had meets, but that’s because of the physically de-manding nature that comes with gymnastics. 
You can’t just go out there and have the 
gymnasts compete in 20-plus meets in a month 
like softball does at the beginning of each sea-
son. And all three of UF’s losses (‘Bama, LSU, Oklahoma) were against teams that made the NCAA Championship. When they got there 
and competed in Fort Worth, Texas, they ﬁ  n-
ished looking up at the Gators.
Luis:  They ﬁ  nished looking up at those teams because of how great Sloan was when she was fully healthy. And I agree with you that gymnasts can’t go out there and compete two or three times a week because of how de-
manding the sport is to the body, but I don’t 
think most people realize how physically and mentally exhausting softball can really be. 
With that said and done, I think the Gators’ 
softball team is the more impressive of the two.
Who do you think won the debate? Cast 
your vote online at alligator.org/sports18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
Get 4 Years of Studen/t.finaStuden/t.finaNewNew
EditionEdition
Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
(save 10%)
July 10thAugust 17th
June 12th
(352) 376-4482Contact your sales rep today 
and let incoming students 
know you’re ready for business 
in the New Student Edition!oﬀ
oﬀ
Save up toSave up to
10%
10%
10%oﬀ
advertising@alligator.org(save 7%)
(save 7%)
July 31st
(save 5%)Javier Fernandez / Courtesy to the Alligator
The Florida gymnastics team won its third-straight national championship despite missing junior Bridget Sloan for a critical 
stretch of the season. Following the departure of Rhonda Faehn, the Gators will be led by Jenny Rowland next season. 
AWARDS,  from pg 17Both teams have won consecutive national championshipsTHURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
liver,” Ellis said to the Associated 
Press following the group stage.
The big moments Ellis was 
talking about could have easily been taken away from Wambach after the team’s 2-0 victory over Colombia in the Round of 16.
Wambach criticized the FIFA 
ofﬁ  cials after two United States midﬁ  elders received their second yellow cards of the tournament, sidelining the pair from their quar-
terﬁ  nals match against China.
“I don’t know if they were yel-
lows,” Wambach said. “It seemed 
like she (the referee) was pur-posefully giving those yellows to maybe players that she knew were sitting on yellows. I don’t know if that was just a psychological thing, who knows. Who knows?”
Wambach’s complaints could 
have left her sidelined for the ﬁ  nal two games of the tournament due to the citation regarding article 57 
of FIFA’s disciplinary code con-
cerning unsportsmanlike conduct.
The last international women’s 
soccer player to make comments about FIFA ofﬁ  ciating was Canadi-
an striker Christine Sinclair during 
the London Olympics — she was later suspended for four matches because of her unsportsmanlike 
behavior.WORLD CUP,  from pg 17Wambach reprimanded 
following quarterinalsGATORS IN THE MLB
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Two former Gators from this year’s baseball 
team are already making a splash in the minor 
leagues, and another is set to join them.
After signing his ﬁ  rst professional contract 
on Monday, former Gator Harrison Bader kicked off his career with ﬁ  reworks on Tues-day.
Bader blasted two home runs in his profes-
sional debut with the State College Spikes, the St. Louis Cardinals' Class A afﬁ  liate, in a 5-3 loss to the Staten Island Yankees in Staten Is-
land, New York, about an hour south of Bad-
er’s hometown of Bronxville, New York. The 
Cardinals’ third-round pick in this year’s draft ﬁ  nished 2-for-4 with three RBIs.
On Monday, St. Louis announced they had  
signed Bader, and he received a $400,000 sign-
ing bonus after inking his contract, according 
to Jim Callis of MLB.com.
Bader’s bonus looks miniscule compared 
with the signing bonus that former UF short-
stop Richie Martin received.Martin hauled in a $1.95 million bonus after 
signing his contract with the Oakland Athlet-
ics, according to Callis. The 20th overall selec-
tion by the A’s in the 2015 MLB Draft, Martin 
signed the deal on Tuesday and has been as-signed to the Class A short-season afﬁ  liate Ver-
mont Lake Monsters of the 
New York-Penn League, via 
a Gatorzone release.
While Bader homered 
for his ﬁ  rst professional hit 
on Tuesday, former Gator 
third baseman Josh Tobias 
accomplished the same feat 
a day earlier.
Tobias, a 10th-round pick by the Phila-
delphia Phillies in this year’s draft, homered on the ﬁ  rst pitch he saw in his ﬁ  rst at-bat for 
the Class A short-season afﬁ  liate Williamsport 
Crosscutters on Monday night. Tobias, who 
signed his contract on June 27, ﬁ  nished the 
game 2-for-4 with a double and two RBIs.
Bader, Martin and Tobias are just three of 
the six Gators that have signed after being se-
lected in the 2015 MLB Draft.
Boston Red Sox 14th-round pick Bobby Poyner signed on Tuesday, Los Angeles Angels 
28th-round pick Aaron Rhodes signed on Tues-
day and Detroit Tigers 24th-round pick Mike 
Vinson signed on June 23, via their respective 
teams’ websites.
Among the Gators taken in the draft who 
have not yet signed include Milwaukee Brew-ers' sixth-round pick Eric Hanhold, Toronto 
Blue Jays' eighth-round pick Danny Young 
and the Atlanta Braves' ninth-round pick, Tay-lor Lewis.
In MLB:
Former Gator great Preston Tucker has 
cooled off in June after his scorching May with 
the Houston Astros.
After hitting .306 with two home runs and 
eight RBIs in his ﬁ  rst month as a big-leaguer, 
the 24-year-old outﬁ  elder hit just .189 in June 
with two home runs and nine RBIs in 24 
games, dropping his season average to .243.
Despite the recent struggles, Tucker has still 
swatted 12 doubles this season, which is tied 
for ﬁ  rst among American League rookies.
Mike Zunino, the third overall pick in 2012 
by the Seattle Mariners, continued his disap-pointing season. He’s hitting .165 which is tied for the worst in baseball and worst in the American League among players with at least 200 at-bats.
Zunino hit just .130 in June to go along with 
two home runs and three RBIs. But Zunino may be starting to catch ﬁ  re as those homers have came in his last four games, and his nine homers this season are ﬁ  fth-best among Amer-ican League catchers.
The Baltimore Orioles’ Darren O’Day con-
tinues to be one of the best relievers in baseball with a microscopic ERA of 1.21.
O’Day, 32, ﬁ  nished June with a 1.69 ERA 
and 20 strikeouts in 10.2 innings. 
The submarine pitcher is a perfect 5-0 on 
the season and leads all Orioles relievers in ERA this year.
After leading the National League at one 
point in ERA earlier this year, Anthony DeS-
clafani of the Cincinnati Reds has come back 
down to Earth.
DeSclafani’s 1.04 ERA in April/March sky-
rocketed after he posted a 5.34 ERA in May 
and a 4.10 ERA in June. His season ERA sits 
at a respectable 3.68 ERA and he’s tied for the 
team lead in wins with ﬁ  ve. Former Gators ink contracts, hit home runs in pro debuts
AP Photo
United States' Abby Wambach (20) celebrates her team's win with goalkeeper Hope Solo following the second half of a FIFA Women's World Cup soccer match on June 16. 
Bader
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015
