VOLUME 109 ISSUE 105 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
Today
We Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 1448/23 Yik Yak visits UF campus
The Yak is touring 60 schools in 34 states this spring, pg. 5. Rave on with Hodor from ‘Game of Thrones’ tonight
The actor is DJing at Simon’s Night Club at 10, pg 7.  
This week’s Netflix binge drinking game: Parks and Rec
Take a sip when Chris says “literally,” pg. 8 and 9 Meet the Student 
Body treasurer 
candidates for the 
upcoming election 
on page 5. Also check 
back tomorrow for 
presidents and VPs. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Pie a Pledge
Dana Tam (left), a 21-year-old UF finance junior, laughs with Karri Kosonen, a 20-year-old UF finance freshman, after throwing a pie at Kosonen’s face on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday afternoon. Kosonen was taking part in the “Delta Sigma Pi a Pledge” fundraising event benefiting the American Cancer Society. 
WEATHERLow temperatures affecting scooters, their riders
MIKAYLA MOTT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Litter accumulated in the ocean over the past 
year is equivalent to if each person on the planet 
had dumped 700 pieces of trash into the water, ac-cording to a recent study published in the journal PLOS ONE.
But while the amount of litter pouring into the 
oceans seems to be on a steady rise, local water-ways have not documented a similar problem. 
“Folks are actually doing a better job of pick-
ing up after themselves,” said Rose Meadows, the general manager of Ginnie Springs. 
Meadows, 53, said Ginnie Springs has been 
doing a lot to ensure that their grounds remain spotless.
She said the park has signs asking campers and 
visitors not to pollute, and they have added more trash cans to encourage park guests to clean up. 
The park also hands out trash bags to every Plastic waste in 
ocean on the rise, local springs not
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
University Police arrested a UF student Wednesday after 
he reportedly broke a mirror on a Student Nighttime Auxiliary 
Patrol van.
Just before 1:30 a.m., police responded to Continuum 
Apartments after hearing a report from a SNAP driver that 
Cory Tanner Baach, 20, broke one of the van’s mirrors. Baach 
ran toward West University Avenue and was stopped by of-ficers at Southwest Sixth Street and West University Avenue, according to an arrest report.Lydia Toussaint, a SNAP employee in 
the van, said Baach was one of two people denied a ride because they didn’t have a 
Continuum Apartments residential ID, 
which is needed for a ride from the apart-
ment complex.
“He started raising his voice and de-
manding that we take him to SAE (fraterni-ty),” the 19-year-old political science sopho-more said.
Toussaint said when the van tried to drive away, Baach 
jumped on the passenger’s side of the van and forced the van to stop.
“We called UPD, and he got really angry and he smashed 
the mirror with his hand,” Toussaint said.
Toussaint said Baach was bleeding, and a small piece of skin 
was left on the mirror.
Baach is a third-year UF management major, said UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando.
The mirror damages are valued at about $100, according to 
the report.
Police arrested Baach on a charge of criminal mischief.Officers took Baach to the Alachua County Jail. He was re-
leased later Wednesday morning on his own recognizance.Police: UF student arrested after smashing SNAP van mirrorSEE LITTER, PAGE 4COURTNEY KAISER 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Colder temperatures this week may cause 
problems for scooter riders.
Some scooters are not mechanically de-
signed to handle the colder weather, so it is not uncommon to have startup issues in the win-
ter, said David Haslam, president and owner 
of Campus Scooters, a local scooter store.
“Most scooters are going to fall into the 
category where they are not designed for op-
eration in very cold weather,” Haslam said. “So they are going to have issues in the cold 
weather no matter what.”
Today the high is 48 degrees, and tomor-
row the high is predicted to be 55 degrees.
Haslam said any temperature below 65 de-
grees can affect scooter performance. Colder weather, like if it drops to the 40s, is when is-sues arise. 
A seasoned scooter owner, Boo Illingworth 
said she’s had trouble starting and keeping her scooter running since early December.
“Once or twice I have been driving and 
stopped at a stoplight and it cuts out,” the 21-year old UF political science and Spanish se-nior said. “Then I’ll have to wheel it over to the side of the road and figure it out.”
Illingworth said she has noticed other 
scooter operators with the same problem over the past two months.  
Haslam said a number of factors affect 
scooter startup and operating issues in the winter.
“The exact reason is the engine does not 
produce enough compression to spark and heat our initial startup for cold weather,” Haslam said.For the most part, scooters are designed 
more for warm weather and short intermittent transportation rather than how they are used in Gainesville.
Cold weather scooter care 
 Cover the scooter overnight
 If the scooter does not start in the first five seconds, restart the kickstarting process Once on, let the scooter warm up for 30 
seconds to a minute before riding
*Information courtesy of David Haslam
Baach
News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 105 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
75/52PARTLY 
CLOUDY
81/55CLOUDY
73/52SUNNY
54/32SUNNY
46/21
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Mardi Gras food. Watch 
the blockbuster movie “Interstellar” in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium at 8 and 
10:45 p.m. It’s always free with a Gator 1 Card.
Disc Golf tournament
Register for the Disc Golf tournament, which will be played on the 18-hole disc golf course at Lake 
Wauburg’s South Shore on 
Saturday. The tournament will have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three 
divisions: Men’s Amateur, 
Women’s Amateur and Advanced. The top three participants in each divi-sion will receive a prize. 
There will also be two con-
tests, Longest Drive and Closest to the Pin, during the event. The winners of 
each of these contests will 
also receive a prize. To reg-ister, visit rsconnect.recs-ports.ufl.edu.
Relaxation Week at Library 
WestTake a break from study-ing and join the Library 
Ambassadors for relaxing 
activities at Library West. Monday from 3 to 5 p.m.: Kim and Zeus the service dog will be in the build-
ing. Tuesday from 10 to 
11 a.m., second floor near the circulation desk: cof-fee and doughnut holes. 
Wednesday from 4 to 6 
p.m., Room 212: chair mas-sages. Feb. 26 from 5 to 6 p.m., second floor near the circulation desk: pizza and 
fiction book giveaway.
Tampa Red and Hokum 
Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll
Hear history come to life Feb. 26 with a multimedia presentation by the chair-man of the Yale University 
Music Department entitled 
“Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, 
running from 6 to 8 p.m. 
at the Matheson Museum, examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for well-known 
musical sensations of the 
1950s. Admission is free.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college students, especially when struggling with a queer WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Mr. Burns, A Post-Electric Play’ 
opens at the Hippodrome Theatre
Hailed by audiences and 
critics alike, this new com-edy by Anne Washburn can only be defined as the most 
innovative, imaginative and 
captivating production to hit the stage in years. Set in a post-apocalyptic world, “Mr. Burns” follows a new civili-
zation that uses current pop 
culture references, includ-ing TV’s longest-running hit show “The Simpsons,” 
to frame its present, and 
explores what will endure when the grid fails, society crumbles and we’re faced with the task of rebuilding. 
A New York Times Top 10 
Play of 2013 and a sold-out success in New York and London, “Mr. Burns” is now 
on stage for the first time in 
Florida at the Hippodrome State Theatre. The show opens Friday, with a pre-view performance tonight at 
8 p.m. Student tickets are $15 
with ID, and adult tickets are $20 for the first week of per-formances! On stage through 
March 15.
‘Thread of Silver and Gold’
A staged reading of a new 
play by UF alumna Deborah 
B. Dickey, “Threads of Silver 
and Gold: Women of the Panama Canal,” will take place Friday at 7 p.m. at the 
Hippodrome Cinema. The 
event is free and open to the public. The play gives voice to the women who arrived from the West Indies, England 
and the United States dur-
ing the construction period of the Panama Canal. It will be followed by a reception 
and discussion with the au-
dience, actors, playwright and a panel of UF faculty. Sponsored by the Center for the Humanities in the Public 
Sphere, with support from 
the Rothman endowment, the play is presented by the George A. Smathers Libraries 
at UF with additional sup-
port from the university’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and the Center for the Study of Race and Race 
Relations.
GatorNights
Jay Gatsby cordially invites everyone to the Mardi Gras 
party of the century Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. Swing dance the night away with live 
music from Gainesville Big 
Band, dress the part in flap-per headbands and learn your fortune from a palm 
reader, all while enjoying identity as a woman on top 
of work, classes and intern-
ships. Finding opportunities 
to socialize with other queer women and release stress is rare. LGBT Affairs is offering a weekly discussion group 
that will connect you with 
other queer ladies in the area to chat, hang out and learn more about yourself and 
others. It is at 7:30 p.m. ev-
ery Wednesday in Peabody Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s news-paper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or few-er. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
The story that ran Wednesday under the head-line “Man stands tall in last 
locally owned store in Oaks 
Mall” was inaccurate. Due to an oversight in research, we wrote that Steve Caroll 
owned the last indepen-
dently owned store in The Oaks Mall. This is not true. You can find a list on alliga-tor.org of other stores in the 
mall that are either local or 
local to Florida.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
guest upon arrival, and if a campsite has 
trash piling up, occupants will be asked by park staff to clean up.
“Folks really enjoy having a place like this 
for their recreation needs and understand it 
takes everyone’s help to keep it nice,” Mead-
ows said.
She said the park has employed grounds 
staff to keep the area clean.
 This is a way to ensure guests can enjoy 
the natural beauty of the the springs, Mead-ows said.
The park also does river cleanups to re-
move anything in the water that shouldn’t 
be there. 
But Meadows said they have noticed the 
springs are not nearly as trashed as they 
have been in the past.
Ginnie Springs is not the only organiza-
tion focused on litter removal in local waters. 
Current Problems is a nonprofit organi-
zation focused on removing trash from wa-ters throughout North Central Florida.
 “We just constantly do cleanups,” said 
Fritti Olson, the executive director of Cur-rent Problems.
Olson said it’s hard to tell whether litter-
ing has increased within the past year be-cause different locations vary in the amount of litter. 
“We try to go to problem areas, so there’s 
bound to be a lot,” she said.
Current Problems focuses on educating 
people about the connection between hu-man activity on land and its impact in the waters. 
The organization encourages people to 
volunteer for cleanups. 
“Those people will never throw anything 
on the ground again,” Olson said.
Email aar@currentproblems.org to be 
added to the volunteer list and receive no-tices of future projects, cleanups and work-days.4, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Conversations About Porn
Jiz Lee, a 34-year-old genderqueer adult film star, speaks to an audience on 
Wednesday night as part of Pride Student Union’s Sexxx Week. Lee discussed their experience in porn, expressing gender and having sexual agency.
LOCAL
CHELSEY FREEMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s music legends are coming to-
gether to teach songwriting to residents.
UF professors and local musicians will be 
playing the blues and discussing the process 
of songwriting in the first Songwriters in the 
Round today at 6 p.m. at the Matheson History 
Museum. Admission is $5. The audience will learn to create its own musical pieces and listen to live performances, said Stephanie Pastore, museum technician.
“We really want to have an event like this 
to be the bridge between culture and history,” Pastore said.
The performers chosen all came from 
Gainesville and had a large local following. They also play the blues with a twist, Pastore said.
Jeff Sims, one of the performers from the Di-
xie Desperadoes and a Gainesville native, said he believes his band has stood the test of time in the local scene.
“We were a full-time band about 35 years 
ago, for four or five years,” Sims said, “and then we reunited after 30 years.”
Sims’ love for music started in sixth grade, 
when he started his first band. He said it’s per-sonal therapy — he will never stop being an artist.
“It’s part of my DNA,” Sims said. “It’s a 
way of creative expression. It’s also important because it allows me to interact and collaborate 
with other musicians and artists.”
Other musicians include Ricky Kendall, a 
musician in residence at the UF Health Shands 
Hospital, and the Bridget Kelly Band. Sims said the event is also about reaching a broader audi-ence.
He said he hopes those who attend will use 
what they learn on their own musical journeys.
“Maybe this will help some of those people 
be able to feel more comfortable expressing themselves musically and poetically,” Sims said.GNV musicians to hold workshop
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Senate passed reso-
lutions, approved funding and discussed the standing of Young Americans for Lib-erty at Wednesday’s meeting.
Senators approved a $705 overflow re-
quest by the Respiratory Care Club to at-tend a conference in Daytona Beach. The request was on last week’s agenda but was not approved because the number of senators fell below quorum.
Sen. Matthew Fernandez tried mo-
tioning to reverse last week’s decision to vote Young Americans for Liberty back into good standing.
Fernandez said his motion was 
based on Sen. Lucas Jewell’s apology for abruptly leaving a previous Senate meet-ing. Fernandez said he thought Jewell’s apology last week for his actions was sar-castic.  
Senators debated on whether to pun-
ish only Jewell or the club itself before deciding to move onto other items on the agenda.
Senate decided to address the issue 
later, but numbers fell below quorum be-fore it could.
Senators approved a resolution to 
thank the Santa Fe administration for 
working with Gainesville’s Regional 
Transit System to avoid tuition hikes in order to improve bus access to and from campus.
The college proposed to add service 
hours to bus routes 39 and 62, and to combine routes 17 and 43 to provide a streamlined route from the Rosa Parks Downtown Station to the college.
“I think it’s always good when stu-
dents get things that they need,” said Sen. Melvin Carey, the resolution’s author. “At the end of the day, all students want to do is get back and forth from school.”
Resolutions were approved as well to 
increase the visibility of a Santa Fe sign 
on the corner of Northwest 39th Avenue 
and Northwest 91st Street and to make campus more accessible to students with visual impairments.SFC Senate thanks admin
Andres Leiva / Alligator
UF students pass in front of the recycling and trash bins near Weimer Hall on Monday 
afternoon. Ginnie Springs management is encouraging park visitors to deposit their trash in bins and avoid littering. 
Organization runs waterway cleanups in North Central Florida
LITTER , from page 1
“Folks really enjoy having a place 
like this for their recreation needs 
and understand it takes everyone’s 
help to keep it nice.”
Rose Meadows
Ginnie Springs managerARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
Before Hadar Arazi was even admitted 
to UF, she knew she wanted to get involved 
in Student Government.
In high school, Arazi got a glimpse of 
UF’s SG when she met student leaders at a conference during her senior year. She was fascinated. 
Now, two years later, she’s running as 
Swamp Party’s candidate for Student Body treasurer alongside presidential and vice 
presidential candidates Joseph Michaels 
and Tia Smart. 
Born in Jerusalem, the 20-year-old UF 
political science and public relations junior grew up speaking some Hebrew and Por-
tuguese, taught by her Israeli father and 
Brazilian mother. 
When she was about a month old, Ara-
zi’s family moved to California, where she lived for 11 years before moving to South 
Florida.
Arazi said her culture has contributed to 
who she is as a person.
“I’ve always been exposed to different 
cultures, and I’ve always been interested in learning more about other cultures,” she 
said.
In her last two years at UF, Arazi be-
came a UF student senator, member of SG 
External Affairs and president of Jewish 
Student Union.
As a freshman during Summer B, she 
became involved in External Affairs, an agency within SG. The agency represents 
student opinions and views on key legisla-tive priorities at the local, state and federal levels.
She ran for Senate a few times but wasn’t 
successful until her sophomore year in Fall 2013, when she applied to be a replacement senator in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. She earned the seat and re-slated 
with Swamp in Spring 2014.
In Senate, Arazi currently serves on the 
judiciary and allocations committee, the 
latter of which is one of her favorite parts of Senate. 
“It’s really exciting to see student or-
ganizations able to expand their program-ming because of the funding we’re able to provide them,” she said.
She said she enjoys helping new organi-
zations grow, as she knows it’s hard for any organization to expand without the proper funding.
As Student Body treasurer, she said she 
wants to make the Reitz Union a second home for student organizations. However, 
Arazi said her main goal is to empower stu-
dent organizations by providing the proper funding.
“Student organizations are extremely 
vital to every student’s experience here at 
UF,” she said. “Student organizations add 
another aspect to your experience here.”
Check back Friday for profiles on the candi-
dates for vice president and president.ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
Nicholas Carre, 20, stepped outside his 
pre-biomedical engineering bubble when he became involved in student organiza-tions.
He changed his major, joined Student 
Government and is now running as Access 
Party’s Student Body treasurer.
The UF political science junior is run-
ning alongside Joselin Padron-Rasines 
for UF Student Body president and Kevin 
Doan for UF Student Body vice president.
He serves as an independent senator 
for District D after he changed his party 
affiliation about a week ago. In addition to acting as senator, Carre was also heavily 
involved in multicultural affairs and stu-
dent organizations. 
He is also on the allocations committee and treasurer of Black Student Union. He 
has served as an ambassador for multicul-
tural and diversity affairs as well as politi-
cal actions committee chair for the Gator Chapter of the NAACP.
Born in northern Miami, Carre was 
raised by a Haitian father and Guyanese 
mother.
During his first year at UF, he didn’t 
get involved on campus in order to focus 
on his classes and involvement in UF’s marching band, where he played the alto 
saxaphone. 
His priorities shifted sophomore year 
when he became a Swamp senator for District D in Fall 2013 and joined BSU. He 
keeps music part of his life by minoring in 
musical performance and public leader-
ship.
“I was looking for a group to call home, 
to find individuals who were like-mind-
ed,” he said.
He said his push for involvement began 
once he switched his major. 
A couple friends from high school got 
him to join BSU, and soon he was heavily 
involved.
“It was more of a fostered environment 
in which they were able to care for me and 
to develop genuine friendships,” he said.
Carre said his experiences as BSU’s 
treasurer provide relevant experience to 
serve as Student Body treasurer. 
He said being treasurer of BSU is more 
than just handling money. The position 
requires him to know and understand the 
800 codes of the Activities & Service Fees’ rules and regulations.
“That’s first-handedly what you need to 
be effective,” he said.
He said he also has to know how to 
properly budget and utilize funds to make sure money is going to the appropriate 
place.
“I understand what it takes to fund 
these organizations,” he said.
Check back Friday for profiles on the candi-
dates for vice president and president.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
 THE YAK IS TOURING COLLEGE 
CAMPUSES.
ERIC HEUBUSCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Yik Yak has a charitable side.
Yik Yak arrived at UF on its second 
stop of the Spring Campus Tour 2015 
on Wednesday and will stay until to-
day. 
The tour visits 60 schools in 34 
states, said Joe Barry, the east coast tour manager.
Yik Yak joined Dance Marathon’s 
table on Turlington Plaza, and the 
app’s mascot, the Yak, drove around 
campus on an ice cream truck dubbed the Yakarma Kart.
For every person who approached the Dance Marathon table and posted 
something positive on the app, Yik 
Yak donated $1 to each charity. 
The process was similar at the Op-
eration Smile table.
“We are so excited to be on UF cam-
pus these two days,” Barry, 23, said. “I can say on behalf of Yik Yak how much we love coming on campus.”
The Yik Yak team can be found 
showing its user appreciation and handing out merchandise on the Pla-za of the Americas today.
Barry said he is thankful for the 
student support and enjoys donating 
to the charities.
“Yik Yak is on UF campus spread-
ing love to the herd,” Barry said.
Students were happy to see Yik 
Yak’s presence on campus. Dani Rua-
dez, an 18-year-old chemical engi-neering freshman, said she thinks this was an amazing idea.
“I think it’s a really simple way to 
give back for a good cause,” she said.Yik Yak visits UF campus
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Helen Roldan, a 22-year-old UF political science senior, smiles while looking at the photo she 
took of herself with the Yik Yak mascot. ”It’s just really funny,” Roldan said. “I go on there a lot to laugh and see what’s going on on campus.”
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Swamp Party’s Hadar Arazi Access Party’s Nicholas Carre
“Yik Yak is on UF campus 
spreading love to the herd.”
Joe Barry
east coast tour managerMeet the candidates: Student Body treasurers for both partiesReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Prohibited debate 
recordings an 
injustice to voters
On Tuesday night about 500 people packed into the Uni-
versity Auditorium for the Student Government and Freshman Leadership Council candidate debate.
But if you weren’t physically present at the event, don’t ex-
pect to hear or see anything from it apart from our coverage and  
tweets aggregated by a hashtag.
FLC will not be releasing footage of the debate, nor any other 
kind of recording or transcript. In fact, the organization did not 
permit video recording of the debate, which, regardless of any legal implications this may have, is a complete disservice to the students relying on this semester’s only two-sided debate to make an informed decision come election time.
In a comment thread on the event’s Facebook page, a com-
menter said FLC allowed SGTV to record but only during the 
first five minutes of the debate. 
On the same page, three separate people asked three separate 
times if video footage of the debate would ever be released. 
It’s a fair question: The debate was attended by only 500 peo-
ple. This amounts to roughly 1 percent of the Student Body. And 
that number isn’t a result of apathy but of physics and time. Re-member, the debate was held in the University Auditorium, not Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, and students have packed schedules that may not have allowed them to attend. But none of those 
questions received an immediate response from FLC.
Then, Ryan Baum, a 21-year-old public relations junior and a 
volunteer with Access Party, posted on the page asking why the questions had been repeatedly ignored. A Facebook user named 
JJ Junior went off on a fervent rant about how these FLC staff-ers are so busy and how agonizingly long it takes to get a qual-ity video produced. Oh, and he had the courtesy to include an ad-hominem attack against the original poster. Straight-up im-mature insults aside, this comment implied a video of the event exists — somewhere.
Evidently, though, Junior was mistaken. FLC posted an up-
date a little while later that said there is no video, that there nev-
er was a video and if you’d like to know what happened, you 
can turn to the Alligator’s Twitter coverage. The logic behind this decision stems from a desire to “protect the integrity” of the debate, as well as concerns that footage would be “used out of context.” 
We find this excuse utterly baffling.The one and only way to guarantee footage from the debate 
is not taken out of context is to provide something against which soundbites and extraneous documentation can be compared, i.e. 
video and audio recordings of the entire debate.
Faulty logic isn’t the only problem here. Keeping the debate 
under wraps denies the content of the debate to the 99 percent of 
the Student Body who didn’t attend.
The Alligator is looking into these concerns for a news story. 
As of Wednesday night, FLC Director of Student Government 
Outreach Melody Zargari declined to comment. For a transcript 
of the Q&A and closing statements, visit alligator.org.
81 TOTAL VOTES15% YES
85% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Have you been 
injured by a sex toy?Today’s question: Did the debate affect your opinion of 
the Student Government parties?
Letters to the EditorTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORDebate should be filmed
One and a half percent. That’s 
the percentage of UF students who 
showed up to watch the Student Gov-
ernment debate Tuesday based on the 
500-person estimate by this publica-tion. The Freshman Leadership Coun-cil is claiming that the debate was not 
recorded in any manner — text, audio 
or video — to protect the integrity of the debate. I was told that the Alliga-tor live-tweeted the event, which is fantastic except that Twitter is noth-
ing but sound bites, and a paper can 
only print so big of an article. Where is the integrity of an event if 98.5 per-cent of the university cannot see it in 
its entirety?
I was also told through the official 
Facebook event page that the decision 
not to record the debate is not based on any established rule, nor does it 
apparently follow past precedence. 
It was merely decided by the FLC to not record the debate in any fashion. Of course, the most infuriating part 
about all of this is that, once again, we 
have a situation that hurts the Student Body, yet there is no recourse for the students. They apologized for the in-convenience, but it’s hollow at best. 
But that’s OK, I suppose. At least 1.5 
percent of the Student Body can make an informed decision in the elections.
Tyler Johnson
UF third-year law student
Editor’s note: Doing our own math 
of enrollment, it is closer to 1 per -
cent of students, not 1.5. Engaging Conversations
We’d like to thank all of the 
students who we’ve spoken with, 
heard from and made connections 
with thus far. An understanding of 
the students we serve year-round was crucial in the creation of our platform and when choosing 
which goals we’d set for our Stu-
dent Body this past year.
This past year students asked 
for increased study space, a re-liable, safe means of nighttime 
transportation and more fitness 
classes. We are excited to have ad-dressed those important student needs by securing $10 million in 
funding from the state legislature 
to create more than three floors of new, state-of-the-art study space in Newell Hall, recruiting Uber to the City of Gainesville, renovat-
ing the Florida Gym to re-open 
the basketball courts and adding 15 additional group fitness classes at Southwest Recreation Center. 
These and all of our accomplish-
ments are a direct result of our in-teractions with you.
We are excited for our plans to 
enhance this line of communica-
tion with you. Swamp Party rep-
resentatives are currently in the process of developing a new Stu-dent Government website that will 
provide all students and student 
organizations with a central loca-tion to connect with their Student Government. The website will house the now segmented means of communication that SG uses 
and provide for increased interac-
tion with the student body.
Not only do we want to host a 
central location for online interac-tion; but we also plan to bring SG 
to you! We plan for each of the 
19 cabinets serving with the vice president to host flagship events throughout our campus to reach 
students in every corner. We hope 
to continue partnering with stu-dent organizations and hosting unique events to ensure we are engaged with students throughout 
the year.
In order to keep all students 
updated on our service and to en-
hance accountability, we plan to 
create a Platform Tracker, which 
will detail progress on our com-mitments to you. In real time, stu-dents will be kept up to date on the progress of each of our platform 
points. Our goal is to promote ac-
countability at every level and en-sure students are always aware of our progress.
Thank you for the engaging 
conversations not just this past week, but throughout the entire year. We look forward to continu-ing these conversations and our 
commitment to all Gators!
Ricky Salabarria
Swamp Party PresidenttheAvenue    Local fashion show to benefit charities: 
It will be held at the Civic Media Center, pg. 10. Mourn the ending of ‘Parks and Rec’ with alcohol: 
Check out the latest Netflix binge drinking game, pg. 8 and 9. Keep up with the Avenue 
by following us on Twitter @TheAlligator.MELISSA MIHM
Avenue Writer
You probably recognize Kris-
tian Nairn as Hodor from “Game 
of Thrones,” but you probably 
didn’t know he moonlights as a 
DJ and electronic music producer. Whether you’re a fan of his acting or his musical abilities, Hodor fans 
can rejoice: Nairn is in Gainesville 
tonight for Rave of Thrones, a live DJ set starting at 10 p.m. at Simon’s Night Club downtown at 8 S. Main St. 
General admission tickets are 
$15 plus fees on EventBrite. VIP 
tickets are $25 plus fees and you 
must be 18 and up. 
Nairn spoke to the Avenue 
about his start as a DJ and how he balances his music and acting ca-
reer. 
What do you like about per-
forming in college towns like 
Gainesville? Anywhere I go in the world that 
has a high student population al-most always guarantees a great gig! Students bring such amazing rau-
cous energy… it’s almost tangible! 
I always look forward to them, and this is no exception.
When did you become interest-
ed in making music?  
I really can’t remember. It goes 
that far back. I can’t remember my life when I didn’t have music in it, and when I wasn’t a part of making 
a sound. I’ve recently been working 
on my own productions in the stu-dio and I can’t explain how excited I am. It’s the first time I feel I’ve re-ally been able to put together the 
exact sound and vibe I wanted to.
What kind of music did you lis-
ten to growing up? What do you 
listen to now? 
As a child I listened to classical 
and pop… moving into rock and heavy metal as a teenager and then finally into dance in my late teens and 20s ‘til now. I listen to a lot of 
the stuff from the past.  I’m very 
into electronic, synth based music. I love artists like Jean Michel Jarre, Lindstrom, Todd Terje, Vector Lov-
ers, Nathan Fake… I could go on all 
day!
How did you get into acting 
from music, or vice versa? 
I never planned anything. I nev-
er let go of my dream, but I didn’t strangle it, and I let it evolve over the years. I think that’s just as im-portant as not letting go. I always 
knew something would happen at 
some point, but I wasn’t sure how… So I just continued working and working in different ways. Truth be told, I still haven’t finished… I have 
quite a way to go before I’m done!
Many people know you as 
Hodor from “Game of Thrones.” 
How do you balance your acting 
career with your music career? 
A lot of people ask that, but truth 
be told, its not very difficult.  Nine 
out of 10 times an acting gig would take priority, but that’s changed of 
late, too.  I’m just prepared to be 
busy all the time and be prepared to give up quite a lot of my life. However, the pros definitely out-
weigh the cons!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Kristian Nairn, who plays Hodor on “Game of Thrones,” will per -
form a live DJ set at Simon’s Night Club downtown tonight at 10 
p.m. 
Rave on with Kristian Nairn aka 
Hodor from ‘Game of Thrones’ tonight music
SAMANTHA GUTMAN
Avenue Writer
It’s lights out, thighs out for the Gainesville Hogs 
Rugby Club on Friday night.
The team will be hosting its fifth 
annual Mr. Rugby Man Pageant at 8 
p.m. at High Dive downtown at 210 SW Second Ave. 
Tickets are available in advance 
for $10, or for $12 at the door.
What started as a hesitant fund-
raising idea has led to a fun event team members and fans alike look forward to every year, said Gage Mill-er, president of the Gainesville Hogs.
“A show like this is kind of nerve-wracking but, 
after the first year, we were convinced that it was a great fundraiser,” he said.
This year, the theme of the pageant is masquerade, 
and some team members have already started prac-ticing their best catwalk. In the past, crowds of more than 100 people filled the room. Miller said this year would be no exception, and there will be something for everyone who attends.
“We have a flavor for every taste, I like to say,” 
Miller said.
The pageant will include several categories such as 
rugby wear, swimwear, formal wear and talent and will include more than 20 participants. Judging for each category will be entirely up to audience mem-
bers, who will receive one vote per category. 
The Gainesville Hogs Rugby Club has teamed up 
with Bras for a Cause, an organization that supports 
survivors of breast cancer. Attendees are encouraged 
to bring gently used bras to the event in support of the 
organization, and as an incentive, every bra and dollar donated will be worth an extra vote.
Men from the UF Rugby Club will also be in at-
tendance.
Paul Rice, a 22-year-old UF economics and Span-
ish senior and UF Rugby Club member, said one thing rugby players love to do is show off their quads when 
they get the chance.
“If I were a hog, I’d participate,” he said.
Rice said the UF club team and the Gainesville 
Hogs often scrimmage together, and a lot of UF alum-
ni play for the Hogs.
Every rugby club has their own set of songs that 
they sing on special occasions, but the Hogs and UF 
actually share a couple of them. 
Rice said it’s tradition that if you mess up the lyr-
ics, you must “kick the boot,” which is rugby lingo for drinking a wild mix of alcoholic beverages.
“It’ll be a rowdy bunch,” Rice said. “I just hope I 
don’t have to kick the boot.”GNV Hogs Rugby 
hosts fundraising pageant Friday THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
ELLEN VILLAFUERTE
Avenue Writer
On Tuesday, life as we know it will end. OK, not really. But that’s when 
“Parks and Recreation” will take its loyal viewers (myself included) for one last 
ride through the town of Pawnee, Indiana, and the political adventures of Leslie Knope and friends. The end of the underrated but hilarious mockumentary-style show will mean no more new episodes to enjoy — no more of Knope’s overzeal-
ous, warm personality, Ron Swanson’s paranoia about the government and April 
Ludgate’s apathy, just to name a few. But if you’re looking for a way to treat yo’ self after a long day of class or work, then grab a bottle of whiskey (because in the words of Swanson, “clear alcohols are for rich women on diets”) and load up “Parks and Rec” on Netﬂ  ix for our latest binge drinking game.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week for the newest game.TAKE A SIP  when
Leslieʼs overambitious plan involves a binder
Garry is called by any other name OR messes something upChris says LITERALLYApril says something sarcasticBreakfast is mentioned (bonus if itʼs JJʼs Diner)Jean-Ralphio or Mona Lisa sings what theyʼre saying
FINISH YOUR DRINK when
Burt Macklin (FBI) makes an appearanceApril says something niceTammy 1 makes an appearanceRon reveals any detail about his personal lifeRon giggles like a little girlThereʼs a political guest star (Michelle Obama, Joe Biden, etc.)CRESONIA HSIEH
Avenue Writer
If you’re worried about your so-
cial media presence after you pass 
away, don’t worry — Facebook has your back.
Facebook announced Feb. 12 that 
users can ofﬁ  cially appoint a “legacy contact” — a family member or close friend who can maintain their page after they die. The legacy contact has the power to write statuses, respond to friend requests, update the pro-ﬁ  le and cover photos or delete the account, but cannot log into the ac-count, remove or edit old posts, com-
ments or photos on the Timeline, read 
private messages or delete friends, according to a Facebook newsroom blog post. 
The memorialized account will be 
denoted simply with the word “Re-membering.”
UF biology sophomore 
Hannah Bailey said after dealing with a family emer-gency last year and watching people post on the person’s wall regularly, she and her 
sister exchanged passwords 
in November and promised to delete each other’s accounts should any-thing happen to them.
“If we’re not alive, there’s no rea-
son to keep it going,” Bailey said.
However, 19-year-old Corey Ash-
meade said Facebook is the perfect platform to make sure his legacy lives 
on.
“It’s kind of a way to make sure 
someone still knows who you are 
and can still look you up,” the UF economics and political science soph-omore said. 
Ashmeade said he would appoint a public relations profes-sional to manage his account. His twin brother, Craig Ash-meade, said he would en-trust his account to his broth-er so he could delete it. The twins agreed that best friends 
wouldn’t be a good idea.
“Most likely, there would be some 
obscene things, even though I passed 
away,” said Craig Ashmeade, a UF electrical engineering sophomore.
Jeanna Mastrodicasa, the associ-
ate vice president of UF Agriculture and Natural Resources, said Face-book probably provided this feature 
in response to demand, rather than 
having users provide their password to someone else. She said this transfer of power just formalizes the process.
“I think the actual reality is that 
this has been going on for a long time.”
Choose your Facebook legacy contact
KERI AND KELSI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
You are preparing for a job in-
terview. You spot a good-looking 
guy at the bar. You are about to make a presentation in class. Each scenario puts you on the spot. You have 90 seconds to create a good ﬁ  rst impression. So, how do you make yourself likeable in these ﬁ  rst crucial moments?
Nicholas Boothman, author of 
“How to Make People Like You in 90 Seconds or Less,” identiﬁ  es the ﬁ  rst few seconds of contact as the “greeting,” which can be reﬁ  ned with practice. There are ﬁ  ve parts to a greeting: Open, Eye, Beam, Hi! and Lean.
First, “Open” describes 
your manner and body language: Have a positive attitude (like you want to be there), and turn your body toward the person. Keep your hands open and re-laxed. Second, “Eye,” or eye con-tact, is critical: Look at the person directly in the eye and really look at the individual with sincerity and interest. Third, “Beam,” as in smile. You will relax and the other person will be much more at ease. Fourth, “Hi!” Do not be afraid to say hello and add your name. Do not keep the other person won-dering what your name is, and do not assume that they will remember it if you have met before. This helps ease those awkward, si-lent moments during ini-tial contact. Fifth, “Lean,” as in lean slightly for-
ward. Directing your motions and words toward the other person is like a magnet; they will want to be closer to you, too.
If you botch the ﬁ  rst impres-
sion, it’s OK. People want to con-nect; life is much sweeter when we are with others and can ride the good and bad times together. So, go for it, but perhaps practice ﬁ  rst the elements of a good greet-ing.
How to make a good ﬁ  rst impressionadviceTAYLOR CASAL
Avenue Writer
In a post-apocalyptic world, 
survivors spend their days re-
enacting scenes from the episode 
“Cape Feare” of “The Simpsons” 
in order to diverge their fears of what the world has become.
“Mr. Burns, A Post-Electric 
Play,” written by playwright Anne Washburn, uses “The Simpsons” to explore the idea that current pop culture will evolve into myths. The Florida 
version of the play premiered at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre on Wednesday and will run through March 15.
The New York Times named 
“Mr. Burns” one of the top 10 plays of 2013. 
Lauren Caldwell, artistic di-
rector of the Hippodrome, se-
cured the rights for the play after 
seeing the following it had cre-ated.
“New York City went obses-
sively nutso over it,” Caldwell said.
Caldwell said the play is a statement on how controversial 
issues are treated. The characters 
in the play perform scenes from “The Simpsons” in an effort to hold on to an art form as society attempts to rebuild.
“‘The Simpsons’ is merely a 
vehicle that is used because of the shows courage in making the car-toons socially relevant to current 
events in our country,” Caldwell 
said. “They call it a dark comedy, but I think that the woman has created a new genre of theater.”
The cast includes actors from 
New York and Atlanta, a UF pro-fessor and a current student.
Tickets for the play went on 
sale last summer. About 30 per-
cent of the tickets available have 
already been sold, and 30 percent of the audience comes from out-side the country, said Jessica Hu-rov, the Hippodrome’s managing 
director.
Tickets are available now at 
the Hippodrome box office. The 
cost of tickets for the first week 
is $15 for students and $20 for the 
general public.10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
(From left to right) Charlie Mitchell, Stephanie Lynge, Matthew Lindsay and Marissa Toogood pose in a 
photo from a production of “Mr. Burns, A Post-Electric Play.” The Florida version of the play will be shown at the Hippodrome State Theatre through March 15.
The Hipp brings Florida version of ‘Mr. Burns’ to Gainesville
Runs through March 15
LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
Three local design-
ers will showcase their 
collections at the Civic Media Center on Friday, and it’s all for charity.
The show, Imagine Utopia: 
Fashion Affecting Change, will feature fashion, art, music and fine dining. The event celebrates the grand reopening of the Radi-cal Press Coffee Shop and will take place at the CMC Court-yard. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. and guests will be able to eat, 
view live art and mingle before 
the fashion show begins at 7:30 p.m.
Attendees will witness Carla 
Coultas’ edgy urban line, Carla Jack Coultas; Bob Coleman’s earthy jewelry collection, Look What The Foxx Dragged In; and Marry Vuong’s ethereal and fem-
inine Lucy Tran Collection.
Vuong said attending this 
show would create funding for 
local and global charities and ex-tra funding for the CMC, which she said has served as a space for freedom of speech and a safe ha-ven for many.
“The world is not the best 
place, but with the right actions, it can be,” Vuong said.
Guests will be allowed to 
choose which charity their mon-ey will go to at the door. The charities tied to the event are Alachua County’s Local Arts Resources, the Civic Media Center, 
Lucas DeMonte’s Top 
Surgery for Lucas and Sustainable Cambodia.
General admission 
tickets are $12 and students can pay a reduced price of $7.  Food from Maude’s Classic Cafe, the Citizen’s Co-op and Harvest Thyme Cafe will be included 
with the purchase of a ticket.
Owner and founder of Bobby 
Foxx Designs, Bob Coleman, 
came up with the idea behind the event after working with local fashion designer Carla Coultas last year on a small charity fash-ion event.
With support from local busi-
nesses, Coleman said he has been able to fund the entire event with absolutely no budget. 
What started as a simple idea 
to have one designer and about 20 guests is now an event with an expected attendance of more than 100 guests, three collections, catering, lighting and a DJ.
“Everywhere I go, someone 
wants to volunteer or contribute in some way. All of the resourc-
es are here in our community,” 
Coleman said. “Maybe all the answers to the world’s problems are just floating around out there, waiting to be answered.”Local fashion show to 
benefit charities, CMCCHRISTY PINA
Avenue Writer
The First Magnitude Brewing Co. is hosting its first 
local food tasting.
To kick off the event, Forage and Blue Oven Kitch-
ens are bringing in multiple vendors including Fables 
Catering and Wild Man Foods, FED Food Co., The 
Cookie Parlor and Bubba Luigi’s Road Trip. The event 
will take place from 4:30 to 7:30 p.m. Friday, and tickets are $15 at the door.  
Meg The Losen, the president of the First Magni-
tude Brewing Co. at 1220 SE Veitch St., said members of Forage, a nonprofit farm in Gainesville, did a special citrus tasting during the fall that was well received by the community. This time, they wanted do something else with more food vendors.
The food tasting was supposed to be a casual event 
but the response was so overwhelming they started pre-selling tickets to avoid running out of samples. The cap for the tasting is set at 150 people, and advance tickets have sold out.
“It was actually put out, sort of casually, as a Face-
book event,” The Losen said.
The Losen said she hopes that if this event goes well, 
First Magnitude, Forage and Blue Oven Kitchens could work together again and have a bigger event later on.
“We’re just going to have a tasting of some kind, 
so you can spend a ticket at (Forage’s table) and then at the Blue Oven table,” said Val Leitner, president of Blue Oven Kitchens. “I’m going to be doing a marma-lade tasting.”Food tasting at First Magnitudelocal
ASHLYN PINTER
Avenue Writer
Starting today, filmmakers from all over the 
world will gather in Gainesville for the 11th an-nual FLEXfest.
FLEXfest, The Florida Experimental Film/
Video Festival, is free and will start at 7 p.m. at the 
Wooly, 20 N. Main St., and will continue through 
Sunday. 
The festival was started in 2004 by UF profes-
sor Roger Beebe and is comprised of mostly stu-dents and volunteers.
FLEX is set up by volunteers, and “the venue 
exposes everything,” which sets the festival apart, said Alisson Bittiker, FLEX’s managing director. The experimental-film community has grown into 
something much larger than the estimated 200 en-
tries in 2004.
With almost 900 entries, only 75 films and vid-eos of various genres were chosen to compete and be shown over four days of screenings with two to three showtimes each day. 
With different themes such as cyber fiction Fri-
day and blue Sunday, the films are meant to ap-peal to the audience’s different tastes. The connec-
tion between each theme may not seem obvious 
at first glance, but, “Once you put (the films and videos) together, you realize they fit on a deeper level,” Bittiker said.
The festival will include a Q&A portion with 
some of the filmmakers. Attendees can also attend a formal closing party held at the Palomino Pool Hall at 19 SE Second Place.
Lindsey Jones, a 23-year-old UF alumna and 
former president of FLEX’s UF student club, said the festival gives people the opportunity to be part of something different.
“The festival provides the chance to see works 
outside of your typical movie theater fare.”FLEXfest returns to GainesvilleBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    2-19-15-5-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;
One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-
10-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    
2-27-15-7-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Scooter in brand new condition - Only driven 104 miles. 2009 Peace Sports yellow 50cc scooter. Asking $650.00 Call Jackie @352-339-6494 or email jackiejo46@aol.com.    2-19-15-2-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 2-20-14-73-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Signature Tutoring Services is looking for  
great tutors to work with students between February and March. Our students need tutoring in all subject areas through the AP level. The tutor will be responsible for teach-ing the curriculum provided by the students' full-time schools, and for ensuring that the students are completing and submitting their academic work on time.  Students and tutors work in person or via Skype.Send your resume toMgiglio@signaturetutoring Signaturetutoring.com          2-20-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
looking for p/t cleaner w/experience who 
has reliable transportation, &valid DL/insur -
ance...$8/hr ...if interested please call 352-214-0868 Caleitha     2-20-4-14
Babysitter wanted - for children ages 6 to 12. Mostly weekday afternoon/evening times. Help with homework, light house-keeping. $12/hr. Email resume and refer-ences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    2-24-15-5-14
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
Fun,easy babysitting job! M-F 1:30-6. Great 
pay. Reliable transportation a must. Non-smokers only, must love animals, too. Text (352)284-0998 for more info.    2-20-15-3-14
Now Hiring ALL Positions. Apply in person Heavenly Ham next to Moe's in Plaza Royale 3832 Newberry Rd. NO PHONE CALLS. $8.25/hr starting.Flexible hours & short shifts.    2-20-15-2-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
Professional resume writing to get you hired. 
Student Rates: $49 only, forResume, Cover Letter and Follow up Letter.www.arcaderesumes.com    2-24-15-5-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Women’s basketball returns home
After playing its last two games on the road, the UF 
women’s basketball returns to the O’Connell Center tonight when it takes on Vanderbilt at 7.Golfer honored by SEC
Senior J.D. Tomlinson was named one of the Southeastern Conference’s two golfers of the week, the conference announced Wednesday. Tomlinson is the ninth UF player honored by the SEC this week.Kourtney Keegan clinched UF women’s tennis’ win against Florida State. Read the story on page 15.Marley Boerema / Alligator
Freshman forward Devin Robinson lays down a two-handed dunk with 2.1 seconds left to clinch Florida’s 50-47 win against Vanderbilt on Wednesday in the O’Connell Center. Robinson, who scored just two points in the first half, finished with a team-high 12 points and a team-high-tying six rebounds.
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
For the first time in what seemed like forever, the Gators 
won a game decided by five or fewer points, defeating 
Vanderbilt 50-47 on Wednesday in the O’Connell Center. 
The win over the Commodores pushing UF’s record to 5-7 
this season when the game is decided by five points or less 
while snapping a four-game losing skid in the process.
“It felt great. We played desperate, especially in the second 
half,” forward Alex Murphy said. “We came out a little bit 
flat; offensively we were a little bit stagnant in the first half. The energy was much better in the second half. We created some turnovers (and) scored out of the press a little bit.”
With 28 seconds left, it looked like Florida was setting itself 
up for another crushing disappointment. Guard Kasey Hill stepped to the charity stripe and missed both free throws with 
a chance to at least tie the game. After a missed Vanderbilt free 
throw on the other end, the Gators corralled a rebound and Hill was able to redeem himself as he drove through the lane and found a slashing Devin Robinson. 
Robinson dunked the ball with 2.1 seconds left  to give 
Florida a one-point lead. Freshman Chris Chiozza’s two free throws would give UF the final margin before a late-game heave went off target for the Commodores.
“I was proud, I could see Kasey fight,” Donovan said. “I 
could just see his body language was not good after the two free throws, and I watched him and I think he tried to regather 
and regroup himself and I’m glad that he did that kept him-
self in the game.”
Florida’s offense wasn’t supposed to be good after second 
leading scorer Dorian Finney-Smith’s indefinite suspension was announced an hour before the game. With Michael Fra-zier II also out, Florida was without a scorer averaging double digits on the season in its lineup.
It was still mostly going well early on for Florida. The Gators (13-13, 6-7 Southeastern Conference) were up 
seven on the Commodores (14-12, 4-9 SEC) midway through the first half. 
Alex Murphy and Chiozza had each just hit three-pointers 
— only Murphy’s second of the season and Chiozza’s third in SEC play — to stretch the lead and give the Gators some breathing room. 
From there, the Gators struggled until halftime.Last-second dunk gives UF win over Vanderbilt
STAFF REPORT
Both UF swimming and diving 
teams saw their stocks rise on Day 
2 of the Southeastern Conference Championships Wednesday.
The top-ranked men’s team 
climbed six spots to take hold of sec-ond place in the 10-team field while the No. 4 women sit in third place out of 12 teams in Auburn, Alabama.
Sophomore Mitch D’Arrigo won 
the men’s second title of the five-day event, finishing the 500-yard free-style in 4:10.77, which was just .04 seconds slower than the meet record set by UF’s Dan Wallace last season.
Wallace finished the event in sec-
ond place (4:13.67).
“That race was 
a little bit of cat-and-mouse,” coach 
Gregg Troy said in a release. “Dan knows that Mitch likes to take over in the end and Mitch knew that 
Dan likes to get a fast start so it was fun for both of them.”
The men also had second-place 
finishes in the 200-yard individual medley (Eduardo Solaeche-Gomez, 1:43.15) and the 50-yard freestyle (Caeleb Dressel, 18.93). The team’s 200-yard freestyle relay team, con-sisting of Matt Curby, Corey Main, Pawel Warner and Dressel, finished Swim gets 
two more wins at SECs
Troy
BASEBALL
 BRETT MORALES PITCHED 
SIX PERFECT INNINGS IN HIS FIRST START OF THE SEASON.
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
In his first start of the season 
on Wednesday, Brett Morales did 
not have a blemish on his statline.
The sophomore retired all 
18 batters he faced before being pulled because of his pitch count to begin the game for the Gators, propelling No. 6 UF (4-0) to a 
13-3 victory over USF (2-2).
Morales did not allow a batter 
to reach base, striking out seven 
in the process as Florida contin-
ued its early season success.
“I thought he was outstand-
ing. He was in the zone,” coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan said. “Some of the kids were laughing—it was 
almost like a Nintendo game. Anything you called was pretty 
much spot on.”
As UF’s pitching staff con-
tained USF’s hitters for most of the game, Florida put on an of-fensive clinic at the plate.
Eight different Florida players 
recorded at least one hit and one run, and four players had at least two RBIs.
The Gators ended the night 
with 13 runs on 14 hits, led by 
freshman JJ Schwarz. The catcher hit his second 
home run of the season and led 
UF with 5 RBI.
“In the first inning (Schwarz) 
struck out with a runner at third, and he came right back and hit a hard base hit to center field and 
followed it up with a home run,” 
O’Sullivan said. “That was really big.”
Harrison Bader had another 
productive outing at the plate, 
going 2-for-3 with three RBI, in-creasing his RBI total to 14 on the 
season, a team-high.
Sophomore Buddy Reed re-
corded two stolen bases and two RBI on three hits, and Richie Martin scored two runs. 
As a team, UF finished with 
a .368 batting average and in-creased its home run total to sev-en through four games.
USF was held scoreless up Solid pitching, quality at-bats carry UF to road win over USFSEE SWIM, PAGE 16
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
SEE BASE, PAGE 16Florida won 50-47
“It’s just that offensively it is an absolute 
struggle.”
Billy Donovan
UF basketball coachTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
WOMEN’S TENNIS
STAFF REPORT
Tied 3-3 against No. 34 Florida State, the fate of the 
No. 2 Florida women’s tennis team rested on Kourt-
ney Keegan’s shoulders.
After fighting back from a 4-6 loss in the first set on 
the No. 4 court to FSU’s Gabriella Castaneda, Keegan 
rallied to win the final two sets to clinch a 4-3 UF win 
on Wednesday in Tallahassee.
“(FSU) really took it to us in singles,” UF coach Ro-
land Thornqvist said in a release. “We are still a little up and down in our performances in singles and I’m hoping the longer the year goes the steadier our team will become in that regard.”
Florida (6-1) took an early 1-0 lead after winning the doubles point.
The fourth-ranked duo of Keegan and Brooke Aus-
tin took a decisive 8-2 win on the No. 1 court while Spencer Liang and Belinda Woolcock clinched the point with an 8-3 victory on the No. 3 court.
But Florida State (3-2) turned it around once sin-
gles play started.
FSU struck first when Daniela Schippers swept 
Stefani Stojic 6-2, 6-2.
Austin, the No. 6 player in the country for singles, 
then defeated No. 81 Daneika Borthwick 6-3, 6-3 to 
give UF the 2-1 advantage.
The Seminoles then proceeded to win on the Nos. 2 
and 3 courts before Peggy Porter and Keegan clinched 
the victory.UF sophomore clinches close 
match against Florida State
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Kourtney Keegan clinched Florida’s 4-3 win against 
Florida State on Wednesday.
After Murphy’s three-pointer, the 
Gators went scoreless for the final 
8:37 of the first half. 
They made 2 of their final 13 field 
goals and missed each of their last 10. 
They also had three turnovers in 
the final 8:02 before halftime, a frus-trating stretch that left Chiozza at one point banging the scorer’s table in frustration. Vanderbilt finished the half on a 13-0 run, and went to half-time leading by six. 
“It’s just that offensively it is an 
absolute struggle. Struggle,” Dono-
van said. “We made a couple plays 
coming down the stretch, I don’t agree when I get asked about us be-ing unlucky or snake-bitten and all that other stuff. I believe you create your own luck, create your own op-portunity.”
The man that started the drought 
ended it 15 seconds into the second 
half. 
Murphy’s layup cut the deficit to four but the second half proceeded 
with a similar offensive ineptness, but it was Vanderbilt that caught a case of the misses. 
On two separate occasions the 
Commodores had scoring droughts longer than five minutes. 
Florida ended up shooting a dis-
mal 24 percent from three point range and 36 percent overall on 18-50 from the field. 
Devin Robinson led UF in scor-
ing with 12 points and tied Jon Hor-ford and Chiozza with six rebounds 
apiece.
After getting cleaned on the glass 
in the earlier meeting with the Com-
modores last month, the Gators out-rebounded Vanderbilt 41-31.
After a 13-0 run of their own, the 
Gators owned a seven-point lead with 6:37 left. 
The Commodores battled back ty-
ing the game at 44 with 1:24 remain-ing. From there, Hill would go from goat to giver of victory, in the span of 26 seconds.16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015
HOOPS , from page 14UF trailed at halftimeUF held USF scoreless until seventh
until the seventh inning, 
when junior Danny Young replaced Morales on the 
mound. 
Young gave up two runs 
and three hits before being 
pulled in the same inning for 
left-hander Kirby Snead. 
Tyler Deel, Alex Faedo 
and Logan Browning were 
also called from the bullpen late in the game.
Florida’s relief pitchers 
combined for five strike-
outs while drawing just two 
walks.
“(Morales) kept South 
Florida’s hitters off balance. He was really, really sharp,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
“That was as good of a 
start as I’ve seen.”
Next, Florida will begin 
its three game home series against No. 8 Miami on Fri-
day at 7 p.m.
The Gators lost two of 
their three games to the Hur-ricanes last season in Miami.
“We know what we’re 
in for this weekend,” O’Sullivan said. 
“It’s not gonna be easy, 
but it’s going to be a good test for our team.”
A radio broadcast contrib-
uted to this report.BASE , from page 14
Women dominated 200-yard IM
in third.
The UF women’s team captured first, sec-
ond and third place in the 200-yard individual 
medley thanks in part to the efforts of redshirt 
freshman Theresa Michalak. 
Michalak captured her first career SEC 
Championship with a mark of 1:56.09, the 
third-fastest time in Florida history in the event. “It was great. To have those three girls 
(Theresa Michalak, Lindsey McKnight, Ashlee Linn) do that well is great,” Troy said. “They are all younger so to have big improvements and post their best times is great.”
Junior Jessica Thielmann finished in sec-
ond place in the 500-yard freestyle while fel-low junior Natalie Hinds finished sixth in the 50-yard freestyle. SWIM , from page 14