We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 134 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
When the Spring semester of her senior 
year rolled around, Mallory Thompson began 
applying to companies in Atlanta and Nash-ville.
But in May 2014, a few days before walk-
ing the stage, the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce offered the soon-to-be UF public re-lations alumna a full-time job.
“When they called me, I was excited to take 
it,” Thompson said. “Of course, I was a little skeptical at ﬁ  rst about staying in Gainesville.”
That skepticism — of staying in what stu-
dents consider their temporary college town — is what the local business community and UF is pushing to change.
According to data from the 2010 census, 20- 
to 24-year-olds make up the largest portion of 
Gainesville’s population — about 27 percent. 
But that percentage dips as ages increase, with 25- to 34-year-olds making up only 17 per-cent. This suggests that after graduation, most students leave, resulting what’s known as a 
“brain drain.”
When Thompson, 23, accepted the job of-
fer, she became part of a trend the Chamber, 
UF Career Resource Center and CareerSource North Central Florida hope is growing.
Kim Tesch-Vaught, the executive director of 
CareerSource NCFL, said Gainesville’s budding 
industries include health care, ﬁ  nancial servic-es, biotechnology, IT and advanced manufac-turing.
And they’re hiring.The business community has come togeth-
er to host scores of events like the Chamber’s 
Hobnob fairs, which are alternative career fairs 
for STEM, or science, technology, engineering 
and math, graduates. There is also a STEAM 
career fair April 21, which is another job fair 
for STEM and arts students aiming to stop the brain drain.
One of the most recent events, the Stay in 
the Swamp career fair, was held in March and 
hosted by the UF Hough Graduate School of 
Business.
The fair, which was co-sponsored by the 
Chamber, UF’s Graduate Business Career Ser-
vices, UF’s CRC and CareerSource NCFL, was 
only open to business students for the ﬁ  rst and 
second fair. This year, both undergraduate and graduate students of all majors were invited, 
which attracted about 300 students compared 
to last year’s approximate 100 students, ac-cording to Natalie Morrison, the assistant di-
rector for employer development at the CRC.
CRC Director Heather White said more lo-
cal companies are participating in these events, and students are responding.
“Anecdotally, we’re hearing more and more 
that students are wanting to stay,” said Susan 
Davenport, the Chamber’s vice president of 
economic development.
Frank Avery described a line 10 students 
deep for Parisleaf, a local branding and digital 
studio that attended. He said the company’s re-
sume pool grew by about 100 applicants.
Parisleaf hired three UF graduates within 
the past 18 months, said Avery, the company’s director of marketing and communications.
“There’s a lot of opportunity for entry-level 
people to have a really big impact in a way that’s much different if you tried to leave and go to a bigger city,” Avery said, adding that by joining young, local companies, such as start-ups, a recent grad will play a bigger role in the 
company’s growth.
Thompson said another perk is Gaines-
ville’s location, which makes weekend trips to  
Tampa, Orlando and Atlanta possible.
“One thing I want to encourage students to 
do is, if they’re going to go to a big city to get that experience, stay connected to Gainesville,” 
Tesch-Vaught said.
ﬁ  g. I
cortexus 
colegyn
ﬁ  g. III
fusiform twyrkys
ﬁ  g. 
XI
ﬁ  g. IIV
# of jobs in Gainesville Metro Area
Unemployment RateFeb 2010: 127,500
Feb 2011: 127,900Feb 2012: 129,000Feb 2013: 129,800Feb 2014: 131,100Feb 2015: 135,500
National
5.8% 5.5% 4.7%Florida AlachuaInformation via CareerSource
Information via CareerSource
Students march to stop humantraﬃ   cking
Members of Gators Against Human Traffﬁ  cking 
rallied on campus, pg 5.
City safety committee discusses underage 
drinking, pedestrians
They discussed proposed underage drinking regulations, pg 5.
Child abuse walk to stop in Gainesville
The group is traveling from Key West to T allahassee, pg 3.Florida football hosts Pro Day in advance of NFL Draft
22 former UF players participated, story on 
pg 13 and photos on pg 16.
IT’S UP FOR VOTE ON 
HOUSE FLOOR SOON.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
A bill in the Florida House of Rep-
resentatives would allow for identi-
fying information about applicants for president and provost in the State University System of Florida to be exempt from public record.
Universities and col-
leges would not be re-quired to release this in-formation until 30 days before a ﬁ  nal vote.
HB 223 has passed all necessary 
committees and will go to the House ﬂ  oor for a vote. Its Senate companion has passed two of its three commit-tees. If it passes the Rules committee, it will go to the Senate ﬂ  oor.
The House bill was originally 
ﬁ  led to include dean applicants in addition to provost and president. It also required applicant information to be released 10 days prior to a vote instead of 30.
Similar legislation has passed the 
House for the last two years, and this bill is even less objectionable than past bills because it’s 30 days, not 10, and doesn’t keep applicants for dean private, State Rep. Combee said
“You have more time and it’s not 
as broad,” he said.The legislation also shouldn’t 
have any affect on student input in university leadership, said Combee, a Republican.
“They can certainly have as many 
students as they want on a search committee from day one,” he said.
The bill is important because 
some qualiﬁ  ed applicants may not 
State bill proposes private university leadership searches
Gainesville migrants’ top 10 source and destination cities
Information via Avalanche Consulting reportSource
Ft. Lauderdale, FLMiami, FLWest Palm Beach, FLDixie County, FLPort St. Lucie, FLPalatka, FLNassau-Suffolk, NYOkeechobee, FLPalm Bay, FLCape Coral-Fort Myers, FLDestination
T ampa, FLJacksonville, FLAtlanta, GAOrlando, FLOcala, FLWashington, DCNew York, NYCharlotte, NCHouston, TXSeattle, WANet Migrants
970727395240191176106
979780Net Migrants
-1,054-1,029
-739-510-346-333-268-209-184-171
ﬁ  g. VII
ﬁ  g. VII
Battling the Brain Drain
Battling the Brain Drain
Battling the Brain Drain
By Carla ViannaBattling the Brain Drain
By Carla Vianna
Battling the Brain Drain
By Carla Vianna
Battling the Brain Drain
By Carla Vianna
 es, biotechnology, IT and advanced manufac- Battling the Brain Drain
es, biotechnology, IT and advanced manufac-
 Battling the Brain Drain
es, biotechnology, IT and advanced manufac-
 Battling the Brain Drain
es, biotechnology, IT and advanced manufac-
 brain drain. Battling the Brain Drain
brain drain.
 Battling the Brain Drain
brain drain.
 Battling the Brain Drain
brain drain.
“Anecdotally, we’re hearing more and 
more that students are wanting to stay.”
Susan Davenport
vice president of economic development, 
Gainesville Chamber of Commerce
SEE BILL,  PAGE 4STATESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 134
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  63°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gator Freethought
Gator Freethought will be hav-
ing its sixth general body meet-
ing today in Matherly Hall, Room 114, at 7:20 p.m. Gator Freethought is a student group 
that typically consists of infor-
mal discussion on various top-
ics, ranging from philosophy to current issues. We discuss these 
topics from our own personal 
backgrounds, be them religious or not, conservative, liberal, etc. Gator Freethought meets every other Wednesday in Matherly Hall, Room 114 at 7:20 p.m.
GSCW is recruiting executive 
board membersThe mission of Gators for Sickle Cell Warriors is to help the pub-lic become more aware of the impacts of sickle cell anemia and to push those affected to achieve more than they thought possible. Through social events, outreach and peer advising, we strive to create an educational yet welcoming and fun environ-ment for all. You do not need to be affected by sickle cell to join GSCW, but if you are or have been, this is an opportunity to support others, find a support system and stir a change in the Gainesville community. See the Facebook page for a link to the application. Questions? Contact us at scwarriorsuf@gmail.com.
Encounter: Meet the God who 
changes everythingAdventist Campus Ministry will be hosting Encounter, a week-long experience in the presence of God through music, worship and The Word. Come out as Marquis Johns, international speaker and pastor of Metro SDA Church in Washington, D.C., presents a powerful series of sermons that will usher you into the very presence of God. The event started Monday, con-tinues tonight and goes through Thursday. Today and Thursday the event will be hosted at Pascal’s Coffeehouse at 7:30 p.m. 
Earth Day
Join Sustainable UF for the 2015 Campus Earth Day Celebration today from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. This interactive event kicks off the first UF Earth Month Celebration and will feature activities and a tabling expo with more than 17 different groups and organiza-tions represented from across 
campus. From 10:30 to 11:15 
a.m., there will be a free tai 
chi class on the Plaza led by 
Andrew Hix from Integrative Medicine at UF Health. Campus 
Earth Day’s main program will 
begin at 11:30 a.m. with the 
Campus Earth Day speech, 
delivered by UF Senior Vice President and Chief Operating 
Officer Dr. Charlie Lane. The 
speech will be immediately fol-
lowed by the presentation of the Champions for Change Awards. Light snacks and refreshments 
will also be available at the con-
clusion of the program. For a list 
of all participating organizations and activities, visit sustainable.ufl.edu/earthmonth. The cel-
ebration is free and open to all 
students, faculty and staff.
Secure Borders? At What Price?
Ana Maria Vasquez from the 
Border Patrol Victims Network will bring firsthand accounts of conditions on both sides of the border and in detention centers to a brown-bag lunch at noon today at the Mennonite Church, 1236 NW 18th Ave. (opposite Gainesville High School, be-tween Wells Fargo and PNC banks). Coffee and tea provid-ed. For background informa-tion, please visit soboco.org/aljazeera-america-us-border-pa-trol-is-out-of-control.
Life as a Hotel: My musical jour-
ney from Gainesville to Los Angeles Experience the story of Marty Jourard, saxophone and key-board player for The Motels, today from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson History Museum. The Motels have released five albums during its tenure, in-cluding the singles “Only the Lonely” and “Suddenly Last Summer.” Hear Jourard’s ac-count of his musical upbringing in Gainesville, where he was immersed in countless genres of music and star artists who performed shows at UF. These experiences provided inspira-tion as The Motels journeyed to Los Angeles and eventually signed with Capitol Records in 1979. Hear clips of some of the legendary music that he and The Motels have played dur-ing their career spanning from Gainesville to Los Angeles. Admission is $5. For more in-formation, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmuseum.org.
Curious about a degree from the 
College of Education?The UF College of Education will be hosting its annual Education 
Career Night Panel today in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium from 4 
to 5 p.m. The first 25 attendees 
will receive a tote bag or T-shirt. Doors open at 3:30 p.m. This 
event is open to all. The event 
consists of a panel of four im-
pressive and engaging College of Education alumni who will talk about the distinctly differ-
ent career paths they each have 
followed, quite successfully, af-
ter earning their education de-grees. This event offers a great opportunity to network with 
education professionals from 
around Florida. For more infor-
mation, visit education.ufl.edu/alumni/career-night.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
A story that ran Tuesday un-der the headline "UF student memorialized in scholarship endowment" incorrectly stated that scholarship recipients will receive the entire $30,000 en-dowment. Each year's recipient will receive about 4 percent of the endowment.
A story that ran Tuesday under 
the headline "Wetlands Club cypress trees selling fast" incor-rectly gave the email of the club. The correct email is ufwetlandclub@gmail.comWEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
Sydney Dixon / Alligator
Food for Thought
Nicole Robson (left), a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, and Greta 
Pallack, a 21-year-old UF alumna, receive a trophy Tuesday for winning the Peo-ple’s Choice Award in the Edible Book Contest outside Library West. The cake resembled the Discworld from the T erry Pratchett book series of the same name.
By Lindsay Alexander
Alligator Contributing Writer
A member of UF’s Students 
for Justice in Palestine held a 
sign Tuesday that read, “IDF attacked Palestinian Christians in Beit Jala during Palm Sunday 
service — Do you care?”
About five members of the 
organization, which advocates 
for Palestinian liberation, spoke 
with students on Turlington Pla-za about the discrimination Pal-
estinian Christians face as their Easter celebration approaches 
this Sunday.
Amanda Bateh, treasurer of 
SJP, is an Orthodox Christian 
Palestinian. Both sets of grand-parents were exiled in 1948.
“I feel like this is the least I 
can do, to be involved in this campus organization,” said the 19-year-old UF food science and 
human nutrition sophomore.
SJP secretary Amanda Nel-
son, a 21-year-old UF political 
science junior, spoke to Jeffrey Howell, a UF alumni, while passing out fliers. He felt the ar-gument was one-sided.
“I think that both sides have 
committed wrong actions,” Howell said, “and I think that it would be better to present something a little more objec-
tive than just leave out every-
thing that would oppose the statements that are put in here.”
SJP will show a documenta-
ry called “Enemy Alien” at 6:30 p.m. Thursday in Anderson Hall, Room 34.
“I hope students realize that 
this is a problem that is occur-
ring globally but is even oc-
curring here,” said Farah Had-jimiry, a 21-year-old UF public health junior. “People do not believe in Palestinian rights, which is just inhumane, and we need to push support and awareness here at the Univer-sity of Florida campus.”UF group educates students on 
discrimination in Palestine
LOCAL
THE GROUP IS TRAVELING FROM 
KEY WEST TO TALLAHASSEE.
By Nicolette Hoffman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lauren Book will walk up and down the 
state of Florida in 39 days in honor of the 42 
million survivors of child sexual and physical abuse in the U.S.
The sixth annual 1,500-mile journey called 
the Walk in My Shoes campaign began March 14 in Key West and will end April 22 in Tal-lahassee.
Book, a child abuse survivor, will venture 
into Gainesville today and Thursday.
“When I started the walk back in 2010, I 
had no idea how people were going to react,” wrote Book, founder of Lauren’s Kids, which educates children and adults on sexual abuse prevention, in an email.
But six years and more than 6,000 miles 
later, thousands of walkers have joined Book in her mission.  
Claire VanSusteren, communications direc-
tor for Lauren’s Kids, said Book is walking 
through Gainesville starting today at 1:30 p.m. 
for a rally at PACE Center for Girls, located at 1010 SE Fourth Ave.
“One of my favorite things that Lauren and 
her book ‘Lauren’s Kingdom’ talks about is the fact that it is OK to tell of sexual abuse,” said Margot Wilder, director of development for the Child Advocacy Center. “I think cultur-ally we have the tendency to want to cover 
up abuse that occurs when we are children, 
so ... Lauren’s message to tell is really impor-tant because it’s ultimately breaking the cycle of abuse.”
For more information on how to get in-
volved, go to laurenskids.org/walk.Child abuse walk to stop in GNV“I hope students realize that 
this is a problem that is 
occurring globally but is even 
occurring here.”
Farah Hadijmiry
UF student4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
From left: Mike Hill, UAA executive associate athletics director for external affairs, and Chip Howard, 
executive associate athletics director for internal affairs, watch Jeremy Foley, the UF athletics direc-tor, speak about his career at an Accent Speaker’s Bureau event in the Evans Champions Club on Tues-day. “It’s not a perfect science, ” he said about the process of hiring a new coach. “The fit part is really important. The honesty and integrity part is really important. ”
By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
UF athletic director Jeremy Foley 
is not a fan of white helmets.
He hasn’t been since the Gators 
wore them during the loss against 
Alabama in the 2009 Southeastern Conference championship game.
“We might have some new hel-
mets, but as long as I’m holding up my hand, they won’t be white,” Fol-ey said. “I’m superstitious that way.”
Foley spoke about everything 
from alternate football uniforms — a possibility for the future, but not this season — to what brought him to Florida during a talk with students Tuesday in the Evans Champions Club at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
He also spoke about the future in-
door practice facility, which he was reluctant to agree to until a storm 
broke out while he was driving 
home one day last September.
“It looked like the world was 
ending; there was so much rain,” he said.
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center 
is typically the refuge for team prac-tices interrupted by bad weather, Foley said. Once construction on 
the O’Dome begins, however, this 
will no longer be an option. Foley said the project is full steam ahead despite the postponed construction.“That’s a commitment to you, 
that’s a commitment to (men’s bas-
ketball head coach) Billy … that’s a 
commitment to the university com-munity,” he said.
Foley was joined onstage by Tra-
vis Leyndyke, the director of ticket operations; Mike Hill, the executive 
associate athletics director for exter-
nal affairs; and Chip Howard, the executive associate athletics director for internal affairs.
Jonathan Arnholz, a 21-year-
old public relations junior and vice president of the Men’s Basketball Rowdies, said the event was a good way for students to become more 
involved in the University Athletics 
Association.
“And then obviously it gave the 
athletic association the chance to an-swer some questions and get some feedback from students,” he said.
Foley ended the talk by inviting 
students to meet with him for advice on how to get their careers started. 
After he graduated college, he 
said he was turned down by every job he applied for. One man advised him to get his master’s in educa-tion in sports administration, which led him to the internship at UF that started his career. Now, Foley is pay-ing it forward.
“One guy changed my life,” he 
said, “and I want to help anybody I can.”Jeremy Foley speaks about career, new facility during talk
apply out of fear of their current em-
ployer finding out they’re looking for another job, Combee said.
“It’s undeniable that the process 
now keeps the number of applicants down,” Combee said.
But to some, such concerns don’t 
justify the bill.
“For some, they will be afraid to 
apply,” said State Rep. Bruce An-tone, who voted against the bill. “But for those who are bold, coura-geous and the promising talent we need here in Florida, they will not be afraid to apply.”
Antone, a Democrat, said he 
thinks it is likely the bill will become law.
“There’s probably a 99.9 percent 
chance it will,” he added.
State Rep. Joseph Geller, a Demo-
crat, also voted against the bill.
“I think the current system where 
the public can find out information works just fine,” Geller said.
Geller said such a bill might hin-
der the chance for students to give input on candidates.
“I think it interferes with open-
ness in government, transparency and the public’s right to know,” 
Geller said. “Most public record ex-
emptions turn out to be not needed or just bad ideas.”
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
declined to comment on behalf of 
UF, citing university policy. The 
State University System of Florida also gave no stance.Kahreem Golden, a 20-year-old 
political science junior at Florida State University, said he is against the bill.
Golden pointed to the controver-
sial election of FSU President John 
Thrasher, saying the university com-
munity was kicked out of the deci-sion to make him president.
“We now have a politician who 
has no academic background,” 
Golden said. “Students were against 
his election. Faculty and staff were against his election.”
Golden said this was the first leg-
islation he has seen to formalize this type of policy.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if other 
states follow Florida’s lead,” he said.
Other students also expressed 
concern over keeping applicants for 
president and provost private.
Chloe Campbell, a 24-year-old UF 
English student with a focus in film 
studies, said she likes being able to 
have time to research applicants.
“Me personally, I like to have 
a few months to look at the can-
didates,” Campbell said. “They’re president for longer than 30 days, so 
it’d be nice to have their information 
for longer than 30 days.” BILL,  from pg 4Opponents of the bill say it would silence student opinions
“I think it interferes with 
openness in government, 
transparency and the public’s 
right to know.” 
Joseph Geller
state representativeWEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 By Olivia Vega
Alligator Contributing Writer
With their hands tied with 
black fabric and mouths covered 
with red tape, six students held 
posters that read, “We stand 
one day for their every day” and “Gators Against Human Traffick-ing,” sharing the words they felt but couldn’t say. 
Members of Gators Against Hu-
man Trafficking marched on the Plaza of the Americas and Turl-ington Plaza for an hour Tuesday afternoon to advocate against hu-man trafficking and modern-day slavery.
“We’re out here to make a 
statement, to make people aware 
of human trafficking and just the 
fact that slavery still exists in the world,” said Caitlyn Burnitis, a GAHT member and UF telecom-munication sophomore. “It’s a 
problem that needs to be solved.”
Human traffickers are estimat-
ed to exploit 20.9 million victims, 
with an estimated 1.5 million vic-
tims in North America, according 
to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center website.
Human trafficking is a form of 
modern-day slavery in which peo-ple use force, fraud or coercion to 
control victims to engage in com-
mercial sex acts or labor services against his or her will, according to the website.
Burnitis, 19, said the organiza-
tion hoped to make people aware that slavery still exists and to fun-draise for organizations that work to combat slavery.
Jonathan Batista, a UF fifth-year 
chemical engineering student, has been involved with the fight for two years. He said he hoped peo-
ple would see their signs and want 
to learn more about the issue.
“It’s not something where you 
have to go out and fight slavery,” Batista, 23, said.
He added there are many differ-
ent ways of fighting it.
He said he recommends indi-
viduals research the products they 
buy to make sure they come from 
free-trade companies.
“It’s a very daunting task to 
fight modern-day slavery,” Batis-ta said. “It’s going to take a long 
time, and the more people that 
are willing to fight for it, the more likely it’s going to happen.”
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Trish Kearney, a 43-year-old UF health education and behavior junior, 
and Jonathan Batista, a 23-year-old UF fifth-year chemical engineer-ing student, stand on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. The group marched between Plaza and Turlington Plaza with their mouths taped and hands tied to call for an end to human trafficking.
Students march to stop traffickingLOCAL
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s Public Safety Com-
mittee brainstormed solutions to 
fund a crime-prevention program, reduce underage drinking and im-prove the safety of Gainesville resi-
dents during Tuesday’s meeting.
Executive Lt. Bruce Giles, dis-
trict one commander, proposed op-
tions to combat underage drinking, 
including an underage prohibition 
ordinance.
Under the ordinance, only bars 
with a special permit would be al-lowed to host patrons under 21. Underage customers would also have to leave the establishment by 10 p.m.
If multiple alcohol-related ar-
rests were made at a certain bar, then it would lose its permit for the 
next quarter, Giles said.
The original ordinance was 
found to be unenforceable in court, 
and it would need improvements to pass in the future.
Giles said the goal is to hold bar 
owners accountable and to help 
people who are incapable of mak-
ing good decisions.
He also suggested a partnership 
with UF and Santa Fe College in which violators would be referred to Student Judicial Affairs instead of being arrested like they may be now. 
Commissioner Helen Warren 
said the key is finding a solution that will not cause businesses to lose money while holding every-one accountable.
She said the topic is too impor-
tant to rush, and the committee will discuss it at a later meeting. 
Earlier in the meeting, Michael 
Buchanan, a UF Student Govern-ment senator, outlined his con-cerns about Gainesville’s nighttime visibility and crosswalk safety.
Recent deaths of pedestrians hit 
by cars, including that of Shannon Michelle Lynn Justus on Friday and UF student Jerry G. Declasse 
on Jan. 9, were mentioned. 
Buchanan said students are 
starting to live farther away from 
campus as the city expands, and people who walk from home are at risk of getting hit while crossing the road. He hopes more lit cross-walks in high-traffic areas will im-prove the safety of students and 
faculty around UF’s campus. 
Warren and Buchanan said jay-
walking in Gainesville should also 
be considered. 
“It just frightens me when I see 
the way they step off the curb as if they’re on a magic carpet and traf-fic is going to stop for them,” War-ren said.
They are considering adding 
lights to crosswalks, which include rectangular rapid flashing beacons and high-intensity activated cross-walks. 
The beacons cost $37,000 for 
each installation, and the high-intensity crosswalks cost $150,000, according to a city report from 
2013.
The committee also discussed 
bright, energy-efficient LED light 
bulbs and trimming trees that block existing light.
A proposed collaboration be-
tween the city, students and police will target dangerous areas and find ways to fund possible projects. 
The discussion will continue at the 
next meeting.
Alligator Staff Writer Hunter 
Williamson contributed to this re -
port. City safety committee 
discusses underage drinking, pedestrians 
“It’s a very daunting task to 
fight modern-day slavery.”
Jonathan Batista
chemical engineering studentThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
2016 presidential 
platforms underway
We’re barely a quarter of the way through 2015, and 
yet 2016’s presidential race is already in its second wave of heating up.
And even though he’s served his two terms, 
our sitting president may be getting involved.
Tuesday, we saw a candidacy announcement from Ken-
tucky Sen. Rand Paul, signaling the entrance of a weird faux-third-party in a Republican race that already includes Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. Paul shares his surname and political fervor with his father, Ron — claiming a kind of Mr. Smith-goes-to-Washington pedigree that he uses against Democrats and his fellow Republicans alike. Though he’s nominally a Liber-tarian, Paul’s ideology is closer to that of a pre-Reagan Re-publican who also thinks you should be allowed to smoke weed — or a grown-up version of that kid who was exposed to “Atlas Shrugged” too early. Cruz, meanwhile, announced his candidacy at the evangelical Liberty University; meaning, he’s going after an evangelical base. Meaning, he’s not going to be president.
Both of these guys are in trouble because a more attrac-
tive, good-looking — see what we did there — and politi-cally coherent candidate will be announced next week. He’s our very own Sen. Marco Rubio, who’s been making rounds, spreading word about a “big announcement” scheduled in Miami next Monday. Gee, wonder what that could be about.
On the Democratic side, we don’t have any clue who’ll be 
running other than Hillary Clinton. Everybody on that side of the aisle has stayed silent — probably playing along with party currents, which strongly suggest Clinton’s up for nomi-nation. Clinton herself is staying out of the picture, avoiding premature exhaustion from media attention. In the mean-time, you can buy “Ready for Hillary” tumblers, courtesy of the Ready For Hillary PAC.
Whatever the case, we do know one thing: President 
Barack Obama has inserted himself into debate with one can-didate. What we don’t know is whether he was protecting the party or his own policies.
Right-wing Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker was on the rocks 
before he started exploring the possibility of running earlier this year. He was nearly recalled in 2012 and has been criti-cized for what he’s done with the state’s higher education. Namely: He holds the same view as Gov. Rick Scott, inso-far as if your major doesn’t translate to business or STEM, you can kiss his ass. He tried to sneak that policy in writing but was found out and given a bucket of shit for doing so. No ofﬁ  cial announcement has been made, but he has been performing the Republican-considering-a-run ritual shifting rightward on abortion and piously invoking Ronald Reagan. And, just a few days ago, he said he would cancel any nuclear deal with Iran on the hypothetical ﬁ  rst day of his presidency even though it would leave our European allies high and dry.
Obama said this would be “a foolish approach to take, 
and, you know, perhaps Mr. Walker, after he’s taken some time to bone up on foreign policy, will feel the same way.” Woof.
Perhaps he’s beating down potential Republican candi-
dates, or defending his own legacy. If it’s the former, that’s a hell of a big deal. 
Republicans, you’ve unleashed the president.
HB 583 discriminatory, based on archaic reasoning
Florida rarely ceases to surprise the nation with 
new levels of absurdity.
At times the state government’s antics are 
simply laughable, like Gov. Rick Scott’s apparent ban on the term “climate change.” But recently, 
our representatives have been less hilarious and more downright offensive. On the ﬁ  rst legislative session of the year, a bill was introduced that threatens to regress our state into an era of unprecedented bigotry. This is House Bill 583, which is aptly nicknamed The Trans-gender Discrimination Bill.
If HB 583 is implemented, transgender people will 
be banned from entering bathrooms, locker rooms and dressing rooms that do not correspond with their legal 
sex. This means any man born with female genitalia 
will be forbidden from entering the men’s bathroom, and vice versa, if they haven’t legally changed their sex.
Supporters of this bill claim its passage will increase 
safety in public facilities. This, of course, is an argu-ment that is not only inherently wrong but also lacks evidence to back it up.
The main premise behind this bill is the idea that 
transgender persons are a menace in public bathrooms. 
Essentially, supporters of HB 583 believe allowing bio-
logical males that identify as women to enter the wom-en’s bathroom will undoubtedly lead to increased ha-rassment and abuse. However, this sort of thinking is out of date and based off an irrational line of reasoning.
As of right now, 17 other states and 28 municipali-
ties in Florida allow those in the transgender commu-nity to utilize the bathrooms of their choosing. None of these places has reported an increase in public safety 
incidences. This proves the obvious fact: Transgender 
people are not more likely than others to commit sexual crimes.
This demonstrates our state representatives are 
driven by archaic ideas regarding the transgender com-munity. Supporters of this bill think transgender people don’t actually identify with their chosen gender, but are just saying it so they can harass people in the bath-room. This line of thinking is the only explanation for the creation of this bill, and this type of thinking is a vestige of the past that has no place in our state.
Any person can potentially ha-
rass someone else in the bathroom. Biological males who identify as males harass other men in the bathroom all the time. So under the same logic that this bill is founded, would it not make sense for males 
to be banned from entering the men’s room?
It is becoming more and more apparent discrimina-
tion is not a remnant of the past, but rather a social con-struct that continually evolves and resurfaces to repress a different sect of our community. 
The war against oppression is an ongoing struggle 
faced by many people in America who are essentially viewed as second-class citizens by our governments. Our representatives blatantly refuse to accept scientiﬁ  c truth and spew lies about the transgender community. Many politicians also refuse to think progressively, and 
they do not wish to create a community that facilitates 
lifestyles that differ from what they presume to be cor-rect. As long as certain parts of our community are dis-criminated against on the basis of archaic rationale and rampant ignorance, we cannot consider our country to be truly free to all. HB 583 is a terrible bill, but it is not an isolated case. Agendas such as this are seen in all facets of our society, from the state to national level. And every time such ignorance is humored by legisla-
tion, it is our duty to ﬁ  rmly and vocally oppose it.
We still don’t know if HB 583 will pass. But if it 
does — and hopefully it won’t — then many years from 
now, when future generations look back at the political battles of this century, it will be noted that Florida was on the wrong side of history.
Dennis Fiore is a UF political science freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Dennis Fiore
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 Letters to the Editor
UF rising — on the backs of graduate assistants
“Going up? So are we.”
As I get into the elevator, I see this slogan on a pre-
eminence campaign sticker placed above the panel of buttons. Yet, as I ride up to the fourth floor of Turling-ton, I do not feel as though I’m “rising” the way the sticker means.
I am not “rising” because, every semester, the uni-
versity ransoms my livelihood and education in the name of “fees.”
Let me explain. I am a graduate assistant. GAs teach 
courses at the university, and, in return, the university 
waives their tuition and pays them a small stipend. As 
part of this exchange, every graduate assistant must pay, on average, $700 in semesterly “student fees,” a cost not covered by the tuition waiver. In my case, fees 
require me to give 10 percent of what UF pays me back 
to the university. This system poses a problem for an institution looking to rise in the ranks: Tuition waivers are a crucial part of attracting the most qualified and promising graduate applicants, and for those drawn to 
UF by the promise of free tu-
ition, fees come as a nasty sur-prise.
The university claims that 
GAs must pay fees because, like undergraduates, they are stu-dents, not just employees.
However, there is a crucial 
difference between undergradu-
ate and graduate students’ relationships to fees and the 
university. Our employment by the university is funda-mentally tied to our role as students: In order to work for the university, GAs must be enrolled in a certain 
number of credit hours; however, any time a GA takes 
credits, he or she must pay fees. This means that in order to work for the university, GAs must take credits and, thus, must pay fees.
In short, GAs must pay to work.
The administration does not provide graduate assis-
tants with a detailed breakdown of what exactly fees 
fund. When pressed, administration representatives have said that fees go to things like the gym, RTS bus 
fare and “keeping the lights on,” though I suspect UF 
has little problem paying its GRU bill with or without graduate assistants paying fees. Imagine if UF demand-ed faculty and staff return part of their salaries to fund the university’s daily operations — no one would stand 
for it. 
The fact that UF demands this of graduate assistants 
is, likewise, unacceptable.
After years of talks between the administration and 
Graduate Assistants United, the administration remains 
hostile to the idea of significantly reducing or abolish-ing fees for graduate assistants. The efforts of dedicat-ed GAU members, it seems, will not be enough to end 
fees.  
Instead, GAs, undergraduates, faculty and staff must 
use the voice of their numbers to pressure the admin-
istration into ending the exploitation of graduate as-
sistants. President Fuchs can also show his support for 
graduate assistants by meeting with GAU to discuss the issue face-to-face.  If UF is indeed planning to rise, it must raise up all working people to make the univer-sity thrive.
This May, I will graduate and no longer be a GA. 
After graduation, I am most looking forward to never again paying to work, not the end to classes or term papers.
Sam Grenrock
graduate assistant
grenrosa@ufl.eduI’m sure you’ve been told not to bite the hand 
that feeds you, but what do you do if that hand is trying everything in its power to stop feeding 
you? What if it is, instead, reorganizing its fin-
gers to point at you and then scrutinizing and 
stigmatizing you? That’s the predicament in which low-income Americans who rely on modern-day 
food stamps are finding themselves. In recent 
years, states across the country have desperately tried to strip low-income families of the food secu-rity federal support provides, and it needs to stop.
As you read this column, a bill that would prohibit Sup-
plemental Nutrition Assistance Program recipients from us-ing their benefits to purchase seafood, steak, soda, cookies, chips and energy drinks is lurking in the Missouri House of Representatives. Missouri House Bill 813, sponsored by Re-
publican Rep. Rick Brattin, follows the ideology that SNAP 
users are spending an unreasonable amount of federal funds on unhealthy foods, so the government must step in and meddle in the grocery lists of about 930,000 food-stamp re-cipients. This type of severely restrictive bill might be news 
to you, as it was to me, but it actually isn’t the first of its 
kind.
In 2012, Ronda Storms, a Republican Florida senator, 
campaigned for a bill that would have disallowed the use of SNAP funds to purchase “nonstaple, unhealthy” foods. 
This bill, along with other unsuccessful bills in Illinois, Or-
egon, California, Vermont and Texas, revealed a political agenda aimed at finding ways to cut funding to welfare and assistance programs to decrease spending. Legislators cite healthier eating and the well-being of children in federal 
funding-dependent families as reasons for more restrictive 
food stamp guidelines. It’s all a despicable charade to reduce budget deficits, though, and here’s why:
Legislators are pretending SNAP recipients have access 
to local, affordable supermarkets, but they’re choosing to make poor decisions and live gluttonously on junk food. In an attempt to support her bill, for example, Storms said, “If we’re going to be cutting services across the board,” refer-ring to public-school funding and Medicaid reimbursements, “then people can live without potato chips, with-out store-bought cookies, without their sodas.” What she and many other out-of-touch politicians 
fail to realize, however, is that healthy, high-qual-
ity, affordable food is not always readily available in communities where SNAP recipients live. Un-healthy options are quite often the only options available in these communities. The U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture estimates that almost 24 mil-
lion people live in food deserts — areas that may have nearby convenience stores and fast-food res-taurants but lack fresh, healthy-food-serving su-
permarkets. For that reason, many people, especially SNAP recipients, choose unhealthier but more affordable options. Legislators are choosing not to accept that truth, however, because they want to depict SNAP recipients in a way that garners support for cuts to the assistance program.
Legislators lead people to believe SNAP recipients glee-
fully go on shopping sprees and buy mountains of cookies and chips. That’s unrealistic and absurd. SNAP recipients in Florida only receive about $35 a week. That doesn’t allow 
for as much grocery store recklessness as legislators imply. 
Furthermore, a study conducted this year found that SNAP recipients don’t consume any more sugary drinks than their low-income peers who don’t receive federal benefits. Studies like this have disproved the stereotype that people with low 
incomes are using SNAP to live lavishly and gluttonously 
while spending federal aid on junk food and elaborate selec-tions of seafood and steaks. Still, legislators feed into the ste-reotype because it garners support for cuts, despite it hurting 
genuinely needy families. Legislators need to realize they’re 
branding people with low incomes as recklessly unhealthy, and they’re discouraging needy people from applying for SNAP because of the stereotypes associated with it.
Restricting what people eat when they only have un-
healthy choices won’t make them eat healthier; it will make them suffer. That’s why, if legislators really want SNAP re-cipients to eat healthier, they need to end their desperate budget-cut charade and the corresponding attack on the live-
lihoods of people with a low incomes. They need to focus 
on introducing healthy, affordable, high-quality foods into low-income communities that lack them by providing tax incentives to supermarkets and farmers markets that bring healthier options to food deserts. Then, legislators will actu-
ally be taking strides toward building healthier communities, 
and SNAP recipients won’t be humiliated and stigmatized by the same hand responsible for feeding them in times of need.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Budget cuts don’t belong in the grocery storeColumn
"I am not 'rising' because, 
every semester, the university 
ransoms my livelihood and 
education in the name of 
'fees.'""Restricting what people eat when 
they only have unhealthy choices 
won’t make them eat healthier; it 
will make them suffer."
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-28 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   4-14-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors
$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA TownhouseDouble balcony; One left!$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental 
School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-
1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $495
2BR Cottage $650
Small Pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. 
Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/
mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com    6-9-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
$475/mo May 1st Furn'ed Pvt masterBR incl utils, WiFi, W/D, TV. Quiet w/ 3 males in UF Midtown, 13th/8th area easy Bus, Bike routes. ROOM@COX.NET / ph(352) 338-1113    4-13-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
REDUCED FOR QUICK SALE: 7825 NE 49th Terr 1200 sq ft 2/1 Block Home on acre of land with detached garage/carpot and well w/irrigation system. 10 minutes from airport and 20 minutes from UF $87,000 352-281-5874      4-14-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
AFFORDABLE, QUALITY scrubs and com-fortable clog footwear. Online at www.hospi-talscrubsplus.com or by phone/fax at 1-888-978-4781.      4-14-5-10
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UP
NO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    
4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 4-17-14-73-13 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
Part-time student positionsat GatorWell:  STRIVE peer educators & wellness educators for the Health Hut. Details on our websitegatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu         4-10-15-4-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-
14
College Female needed as Tutor/Driver for 7-8th grader. Strong math, organiza -
tion. Dependable. MTWRF 3:15p to 7:00p, Periodic weekend/late eve hours. Call 352-514-8944.    4-13-15-5-14
Babysitter wanted for four kids ages 6-12, now through summer and into the fall. Help at home and taking kids to after school/camp activities. Experience required. Resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.     4-14-15-5-14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
18 Personals 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 23 RidesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Through all the wins, adversity 
and losses that befell Dante Fowler 
Jr. and D.J. Humphries, the greatest lesson came at the hands of each other.
Fowler, a defensive end, and 
Humphries, an offensive tackle, are 
both predicted to hear their names 
called on April 30 in Chicago when the NFL holds the first round of the 
draft.
But both are hesitant to take any 
form of individual credit.
Instead, they attribute their past 
and future success to arriving in 
Gainesville together and battling against each other every day in 
practice.
“He was my first one-on-one I 
ever did when I stepped foot in here 
and he was my last one,” Fowler said, when asked about matching up with Humphries. “Toe-to-toe 
for three years every day in prac-
tice and he got me right, and just 
being able to see him getting the accolades that he deserves, it feels 
great.”
The duo arrived at Florida in 
2012 with all of the hype, having 
garnered five-star ratings from Ri-vals.com.
They figured that playing for 
coach Will Muschamp, currently 
the defensive coordinator at Au-
burn, would help them reach their full potential.
But it was Fowler rather than 
Humphries who was highly regard-ed for three seasons as a Gator.
Considering the early praise, it 
wasn’t long before Humphries was 
branded a “bust”. 
He was the No. 2 overall pros-
pect in the country coming out of 
Union (N.C.) Mallard Creek High School, yet he had trouble staying healthy and wasn’t a consistent starter until last season.
Once Muschamp was fired as Florida's head coach, Fowler an-nounced on Nov. 18 via Twitter that he would make the leap to the 
professional level.
Humphries was unsure of his 
path, and requested an evaluation 
from the NFL to see if he should leave UF early.
“They told me to stay in school,” 
Humphries said, but he decided “probably on the way back from the Birmingham Bowl that I think I’m going to do it.”
After Humphries announced he 
was leaving, he began to reevaluate 
his diet. He got his weight up over 
300 pounds, and he said he’s in the 
best shape of his life.
“When I was in college my 
whole thought process was to stuff as many calories in my face as I can,” Humphries said. “Eat a whole pizza before I go to sleep type deal. I just learned I don’t have to do that. I can eat the right stuff. I can eat 
grilled chicken, right type of pastas 
and stuff like that, but just eat a lot 
of it and still gain good weight.
“I’m going to be honest with 
you, since I been over 300 pounds 
I’ve been kind of like formed the fat-boy mentality. Nowadays if I don’t eat every three-to-four hours I get a little irritated.”
Humphries’ athleticism despite 
his large frame has NFL teams tak-ing notice. 
He’s no longer a projected mid-
round draft pick.
Humphries is a bona fide first-
rounder, according to multiple 
mock drafts.
“I know a lot of people had a lot 
of ifs and doubts about him com-
ing out, but just being able to see 
how hard he was working in the 
offseason when we were (training) in Pensacola together and seeing him get his weight up – he looks scary at 300 pounds,” Fowler said. “He looks good, though.”
There was skepticism regarding 
both Humphries and Fowler leav-ing school early, but with the rise the two have seen in their draft 
stocks, it’s hard not to be optimistic 
they made the correct choice.
“I think about because I know I 
was a junior and I could have come back,” Fowler said. “But a lot of great things are happening for me right now, and I don’t regret my de-
cision. I’m blessed right now with 
what’s happening.”
UF softball to play FSU
For a full advance, go to
alligatorsports.orgFormer UF fullback injured prepping for NFL Draft
Hunter Joyer tore his ACL while training in South Florida, the T ampa Bay 
Times reported on Tuesday. He will undergo surgery on Friday. During his four seasons at UF, Joyer played in 50 games, 11 of which were starts, and totaled 101 rushing yards, 29 receiving yards and three total touchdowns.The Florida Gators men's golf 
team finished in second-place at the Old Waverly Collegiate Championship. Read the story online at alligatorsports.orgJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Former UF defensive lineman Dante Fowler participates in a drill during Florida's Pro Day on Tuesday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. For more photos, see page 16. 
Fowler, Humphries impress scouts at Florida's Pro DayPRO DAY
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
JJ Schwarz had a night for the record books.The freshman catcher, who has showcased 
a powerful swing at the plate on more than one occasion in his debut collegiate season, belted out a school-record four home runs in six at-bats to lift No. 10 Florida to a 22-2 win over Stetson on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium.
Schwarz’s four home runs came off four 
different Stetson pitchers. He finished the game going 5-for-6 at the plate with the four home runs, a double and 10 RBIs — one shy of UF’s school record of 11 set by Preston Tucker in 2009.
He now has nine home runs on the year, 
which ties junior Harrison Bader for the team 
lead.
“I’ve never hit two (home runs in a game) 
before,” Schwarz said. “After my second one, I 
was really excited and after the third one I was 
like ‘holy crap. What’s going on?’”
As a whole, the Gators (25-9) hit seven 
home runs on Tuesday, the first time they did so since Feb. 8, 1998, against Miami and just 
the fourth time in school history.
Florida now has 34 home runs on the sea-
son, an average of one per game.
The offense was as potent as ever, stringing 
together 22 hits and posting a .449 batting av-erage following a weekend where the team hit 
a measly .202 in three games against Missouri.
UF scored at least two runs in four consecu-
tive innings and posted at least one run in ev-ery inning.
“I think, more than anything, confidence-
wise, some guys that may not have been 
swinging the bat great are probably feeling bet-
ter about themselves,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said.
Dalton Guthrie opened scoring with his first career home run in UF’s first at-bat of the 
game, becoming the first to do so since Casey Turgeon accomplished the feat on March 5, 2013, against Jacksonville.
The freshman second baseman added an-
other solo home run in the fifth inning.
Florida held a 6-2 lead over Stetson (18-16) 
heading into the bottom of the third thanks to a five-run second inning off Schwarz’s first home run and a pair of doubles by Richie Mar-tin and Harrison Bader before an hour-long weather delay halted the action.
But the delay didn’t impact the outcome.That was already decided.The Gators simply piled onto their four-run 
cushion by adding 14 unanswered runs once play resumed, highlighted by a five home run bombardment within six innings worth of ac-tion.Freshman hits four home runs in Gators baseball beatdown
Florida topples Stetson 22-2
“I've never hit two before. After my 
second one, I was really excited and 
after the third one I was like 'holy crap. 
What's going on?'"”
JJ Schwarz
UF freshman catcher14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  By Richard Johnson
Alligator Staff Writer
@RagjUF
“Everything.”
That’s the word three former Florida 
football players used to describe what 
Tuesday meant to them. 
That is the importance of Pro Scout 
Day to Mike Taylor, Mack Brown and Clay 
Burton, each of whom will most likely 
not have their names called during next 
month’s NFL draft.
“I won’t lie to you, (when) 
I first walked in the stadium today I was nervous,” Brown 
said. “But the guys that went 
to the combine and had the Senior Bowl invites, they had to talk to me, calm my nerves down. They told me ‘this 
is your one shot.’ This is my Senior Bowl, 
this is my combine, I’m just gonna come here and do the best I can do.”
They may tune in to watch teammate 
Dante Fowler Jr. strut across the stage in 
Chicago to give NFL commissioner Roger 
Goodell a hug and pose with jersey and hat in front of dozens of flashbulbs, but that experience is not in their future. 
They didn’t go to the senior bowl like 
teammate Max Garcia and Trenton Brown, or participate in the NFL combine like fel-low Gators Brown, Leon Orr, Chaz Green, Neiron Ball, D.J. Humphries and Matt 
Jones. 
They all plan to watch the draft at home 
with family. 
Taylor is a self-described family man. 
Brown says he might be at church. Burton plans on eating Bosnian food 
with his in-laws. His older brother Trey, who was picked 
up by the Philadelphia Eagles as an un-
drafted free agent, has been giving his sib-
ling advice on how to spend the days when the draft is on TV.
“The whole draft day, don’t get caught 
up in everything,” Clay said. “Just kinda relax and God already has a plan so what-ever happens happens. Just wherever you go just be ready to work and make the best decision for yourself and your family.”
Visits are scarce as a fringe NFL pros-
pect. While Green will leave today for Dallas and has fu-ture visits scheduled with the 
Falcons and a private work-
out with the Tampa Bay Buc-caneers, Brown has no visits 
scheduled but plans to speak to his agent about possibilities.
Tyler Moore is training in Tampa, close 
to his hometown of Clearwater. 
He cuts costs this way by not having to 
pay for things like a rental car or a tempo-
rary apartment, which becomes more mon-
ey he has in his pocket to pay his agent. 
Moore will attend the Buccaneers’ work-
out for local prospects on Friday along with Burton. Moore also had a workout with the 
Carolina Panthers, but tweaked his ham-
string and wasn’t able to participate.
Burton made no mention of other visits 
besides Tampa Bay, but while most players 
attack the pre-draft process with perhaps 
the help of only their parents, Burton, who recently married former UF gymnast Dalila Lemezan, has someone else in his corner.
“It means so much now, because I al-
ways have somebody to fall back on,” 
Burton said. “She’s just so positive with 
me. She’s waiting for me every time I come home from workouts and (I’m) just so thankful that she helps me with every-
thing. She works to have her own stuff, but 
she always makes time for me and I love her so much.”
In all, 22 UF players participated in 
Tuesday’s Pro Day workouts. Five or six are sure-fire draft picks. 
The rest exist on the fringe, hoping for a 
shot at the league. Even though they won’t all get picked, new UF head coach Jim McElwain is pleased at the amount of play-ers that worked out, ones that he thinks are all talented players.
“This is what you hope, each year you 
hope you have the depth and the quality,” McElwain said. 
“There’s a lot of really, really good play-
ers out here that are given the opportunity 
because of what they did and my hat’s off 
to them because as you see the 22 guys, there’s really some good players out there.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Former UF tight end Clay Burton runs the 40-yard dash during Florida’s Pro Day 
on Tuesday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Gators hope to turn Pro Day workout into NFL contract
FOOTBALL16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Former UF offensive linemen Chaz Green (right) and Max Garcia participate in 
drills during Tuesday’s Pro Day. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Former UF linebacker Neiron Ball runs through an individual drill. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
TOP: Former UF tight end T evin Westbrook catches a pass from former South Caro-lina quarterback Stephen Garcia (not pictured). 
BOTTOM LEFT: Florida head coach Jim McElwain speaks with Pittsburgh Steelers 
head coach Mike T omlin and Steelers offensive line coach Mike Munchak. 
BOTTOM RIGHT: NFL scouts and representatives huddle together at the middle of 
Florida Field to compare times. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
