We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 148 THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
UF softball faces familiar foe in 
Kentucky during Super Regionals
The Gators swept the Wildcats in their regular-
season series, pg 17.
Gator Motorsports drives to third place
The team competed against more than 120 other schools in Michigan, pg 5
Memorial Day Weekend Tips
Learn how to be safe over the weekend, pg 3.Return of the Avenue
For all the latest CD reviews, local event 
coverage and Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game, see pgs. 9 - 12.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Fast Company
Corey Nikels, a ﬁ  fth-year electrical engineering student dressed as Sonic the Hedgehog, watches 
Clayton T aylor, a political science junior playing Dr. Robotnik or “Eggman, ” shoot a Nerf gun Tuesday. The 21-year-olds were participating in a Humans vs. Zombies’ Sonic the Hedgehog-themed game.
IT WILL INCLUDE A 
HEART AND VASCULAR 
HOSPITAL AND A 
NEUROMEDICINE 
HOSPITAL BY 2018.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Health celebrated its ﬁ  fth 
year of the ﬁ  ve-year Forward 
Together plan with an unveiling 
of the new ﬁ  ve-year plan: the 
Power of Together.
On May 20, 2010, UF Health 
implemented Forward Together. 
Five years later, on Wednes-
day, the UF Health team looked to begin another roadmap, this time calling it Power of Togeth-er, to improve UF Health’s col-
laboration between the colleges.
David Guzick introduced UF 
President Kent Fuchs, who took 
the stage ﬁ  rst and congratulat-
ed UF Health for its successful 
implementation of the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve-year plan.
“That progress is literally 
nothing short of remarkable,” 
Fuchs said. 
“I’m deeply impressed by the 
progress that’s been made in rankings, and other indicators of 
improved patient care, increased research funding, expanding lit-
erally physical campus, and I’m 
equally impressed by how you all have united health across the health centers.”
Fuchs said the Power of To-
gether will build on and cel-ebrate the strengths of the prog-ress that has been made, adding that he is excited to become the 
primary cheerleader of the Pow-
er of Together plan.
Guzick, the president of UF 
Health, followed Fuchs with a video that summarized the Pow-
er of Together, which looks to 
increase patient care, research, education, community involve-ment and expansion.
The video revealed new de-
velopments that included a UF Health heart and vascular hospi-tal and a UF Health neuromedi-cine hospital by 2018. 
The development of the hos-UF Health unveils
new 5-year plan
SEE HEALTH,  PAGE 4
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF professor Wesley Bolch will travel to 
Vienna, Austria, next month as an appoint-
ed member of the U.S. delegation to work 
with the United Nations Scientiﬁ  c Commit-
tee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, or UNSCEAR.
A professor of biomedical engineering 
and the associate dean for academic affairs for the UF College of Engineering, the UF alumnus was appointed the position be-cause of his decades-long research on the 
effects of radiation.
The UNSCEAR looks to put out reports 
that capture the sources of radiation, in-
cluding environmental and medical sourc-es, and to understand the biological effects of exposure, Bolch said.
Bolch, who graduated from UF with his 
bachelor’s, master’s and Ph.D. degrees, be-gan working on researching the effects of radiation on humans in the late 1990s.
Bolch began with assessing radiation 
doses in the bone, and it went from there.
“There’s only a few, a handful, in the 
world, that have the capability that we do in assessing what those doses are,” Bolch said.
The effects of levels of radiation on 
people are still only estimated today, Bolch said, but he and his group of students have developed works that have been used inter-nationally to better assess a patient’s radia-
tion risks.
“The idea is, we have a patient that comes through the door, and we want to 
estimate the level of medical exposure to radiation are,” Bolch said. 
Matthew Maynard, 31, 
worked with Bolch be-fore graduating from UF with his Ph.D. in medical 
physics and is currently in 
post-doctoral research. 
They researched and 
created one of the most detailed anatomical mod-
els for pregnant women, showing how ra-diation affected the fetus during pregnancy.
Today, Maynard’s work on the effects of 
radiation on a pregnant women, along with 
the fetus, has gained international recogni-
tion.“He’s (Bolch) got experience and con-
nections in all different kinds of ﬁ  elds,” 
Maynard said.
Amy Geyer, 28, a Ph.D. candidate for 
medical physics working under the guid-
ance of Bolch, created a library with 350 
animated 3D human bodies. 
“Overall, I don’t think we would’ve 
gotten the opportunities that we got if we 
didn’t know professor Bolch,” Geyer said.
Shannon O’Reilly, 26, a Ph.D. candidate 
for medical physics, also helped create the library of 3D bodies, which helps give phy-sicians a virtual version of a person to as-sess risks for a real life patient.
“He’s (Bolch) had major impacts on pa-
tients,” said Christine Schmidt, the depart-ment chair of biomedical engineering.
It shows that he has an international 
presence, Schmidt added, putting UF and 
its research on the map.UF professor chosen to serve on US delegation with UN
He will travel to Vienna, Austria, in June
Bolch
“That progress is literally 
nothing short of remarkable.” 
Kent Fuchs
UF PresidentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 148
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Night Swing Dancing at 
the MUB
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you to our weekly dance this and every Friday. We will 
have a free lesson for beginners 
and intermediates open to every-one starting at 8 p.m. followed by two hours of music from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121.Please be sure not to touch any of the instruments that may be there. Please do not wear heels 
because they can damage the 
floor. Food and drinks are not al-lowed unless it is bottled water. 
STATE
Florida man reunites with dog 
that went missing 8 years ago
MIAMI (AP) — A microchip and 
a good Samaritan helped to re-unite a Florida man and his miss-ing dog after eight years.Joshua Edwards and his now 9-year-old, 120-pound Rottweiler named Duke were brought to-gether again Tuesday at Tamiami 
Animal Hospital.“I think he knew who I was 
right away,” said Edwards, who last saw Duke in 2007, when 
the dog was just a puppy and 
was stolen from his backyard in the Shenandoah area. “I never thought I would see him again.”
Gawker sues FBI to obtain re-
cords on Hulk Hogan sex video
TAMPA (AP) — A sex video in-
volving wrestler Hulk Hogan is the subject of another federal court action as a celebrity gossip website is suing the FBI, trying to 
obtain investigation documents 
related to the recording.The Tampa Tribune reports that Gawker is now seeking FBI inves-tigation records, saying they’re essential for the defense of the pending $100 million lawsuit filed by Hogan, a Clearwater Beach resident whose real name 
is Terry Bollea.
Hogan sued Gawker after the website posted a story and a por-tion of the video, which the pro wrestler said was made without his knowledge. The video de-picted Hogan having sex with Heather Clem, then the wife of radio shock jock Bubba the Love Sponge Clem.Gawker asserted Hogan was aware of the recording being made.
CLARIFICATION
In the article published Tuesday titled “Crit-Cross race on track for success,” we identified one of the Freewheel Project’s board mem-bers as Ryan Aulton’s wife with-
out first identifying her by name. 
Her name is Jamie Aulton.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To en-sure publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 4 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the pa-
per. Press releases will not appear in the paper.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chief Christine Preston
Copy Editors Kelsey Bona 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Amanda Churchill, Serina Esquivel,
  Bailey Gaul, Miriam Gonzalez,    
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn,    
  T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀ
10% oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ10% oﬀ10%
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Save up toSave up toSave up to
10% oﬀ
Get 4 Years of 
Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
August 17th
(352) 376-4482Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
advertising@alligator.orgStuden/t.finaStuden/t.finaStuden/t.finaNewStuden/t.finaNewStuden/t.finaEditionStuden/t.finaNew
EditionDeadlin/e_s.fina:Deadlin/e_s.fina:Deadlin/e_s.fina:Deadlin/e_s.fina:Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
June 12th
(save 10%)
July 10th
(save 7%)
July 31st
(save 5%)Contact your 
sales rep today and let incoming students know you’re ready for business in the
Cooking on the grill
 Use separate cutting boards and utensils for raw meat 
and ready-to-eat items like vegetables or bread.
 Keep perishable food cold until it is ready to cook.
 Use a food thermometer to make sure meat and poultry are cooked thoroughly to safe internal temperatures
 Always use a fresh, clean plate and tongs for serving cooked food. Never reuse items that touched raw meat or poultry to serve the food once it is cooked.
Serving food outdoors:
 Perishable food should not sit out for more than two hours. In hot weather (above 90 °F), food should NEVER sit out for more than one hour.
 Serve cold food in small portions, and keep the rest in the cooler. After cooking meat and poultry on the grill, keep it hot until served – at 140 °F or warmer.When you’re on the water
 Avoid alcohol when swimming or boating.
 Wear a life jacket whenever you’re in a boat.
 Don’t swim alone or in bad weather.
 Learn CPR.
 Learn to swim and teach your children to swim.
 Supervise your children when they are in the water.
 Prevent sunburns - use plenty of sunscreen.When taking a Memorial Day road trip
 With more people on the roads, it’s important to drive safely. Be well rested and alert, use your seat belts, observe speed limits and follow the rules of the road. If you plan on drinking alcohol, designate a driver who 
won’t drink.
 Let someone know where you are going, your route 
and when you expect to get there. If your car gets stuck along the way, help can be sent along your predeter-mined route.
 Downloading The Red Cross app “Emergency” can help keep you and your loved ones safe by putting vital information in your hand for more than 35 different severe weather and emergency alerts. You can ﬁ  nd it in 
smartphone app stores by searching for American Red 
Cross or going to redcross.org/apps.
 If you are traveling with your pet, the Red Cross has advice to make your trip more enjoyable.
Source: USDA, U.S.National Library of Medicine and Red CrossMEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND 
SAFETY TIPSpitals will cost $415 million, according 
to the most recent Power of Together report. 
Funding from the National Institute 
of Health had also increased more than 40 percent in the past ﬁ  ve years, even when funding became difﬁ  cult, Guzick 
said. He emphasized that the patients 
and community have become the center of UF Health.
“The ‘we’ and the ‘they’ have be-
come ‘us,’” Guzick said, before intro-
ducing Isabel Garcia, dean of the Col-
lege of Dentistry.
Garcia said she was drawn to UF for 
its diversity in culture, thought and life 
experiences.Voncea Brusha, a registered nurse at 
UF Health for more than 45 years and an 
ambassador for UF Health through com-
munity outreach, said she looks forward 
to improving patient and community focus.
John Leonard, a student at the Col-
lege of Pharmacy, spoke about how the Forward Together plan affected his edu-cation and how he looks to the Power of Together to expand on the progress of UF Health.
“If we are to understand the complex 
health care system we are about to en-ter, and strive to improve patient care, safety and quality, it is crucial that we 
learn to interact with one another in 
an interdisciplinary and diverse team,” Leonard said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
HEALTH,  from pg 1The new hospital is expected 
to cost $415 millionLaiz
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Dr. David Guzick, president of UF Health, announces UF Health’s ﬁ  ve-year plan inside the 
UF Health Atrium on Wednesday. “It’s been a great ﬁ  ve years, ” Guzick said. “Here’s to the next ﬁ  ve years. ”
The Gainesville Police Department released the 
following information regarding a recent incident 
involving a registered sex offender: 
Edward Laiz, 39, reportedly approached a 
Buchholz High School student May 14 as she 
was walking through a wooded area after school, according to a GPD press release. The student was 
taking pictures when Laiz approached her and began talking to her about photography. He asked her to follow him to his nearby ofﬁ  ce so she could see his camera. The student said no. 
Laiz showed the girl his business card, which said he was the CEO of Cubicle Ninja Studios LLC. 
Laiz is a registered sex offender but not under 
supervision. 
He lives in Ocala but works at Mindtree located 
at 702 SW Second Ave. in Gainesville. 
He is 5-foot-5 and weighs 155 pounds.CRIME
Gainesville Police warns of registered sex oﬀ  enderTHURSDAY MAY 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Seasoned Supper
Shalini Rao, owner of Saras Seasonings, serves rice 
for a customer at the Union Street Farmers Market on Wednesday. She said she has been selling her homemade seasonings and dishes at the market for four years.
CAMPUS
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Throughout his four years at UF, Jonathan Nunez has 
devoted countless hours to Gator Motorsports, the UF So-
ciety of Automotive Engineers Formula Team.
The 22-year-old team co-captain gained hands-on expe-
rience building racecars for the team’s annual trip to the Formula SAE Competition in Michigan, where about 125 college teams from the U.S. and internationally meet for a 
week of competition in May.
This year, the UF team had its best ﬁ  nish in recent his-
tory.
Nunez and the Gator Motorsports team returned to 
Gainesville from the competition Monday with a third-place trophy in tow and a sense of pride among the more 
than 25 members who traveled to Michigan for the com-petition. 
This marks the third straight year the team has posted 
a top-10 ﬁ  nish at the event, placing ninth in 2014 and 10th in 2013. UF ﬁ  nished 19th in the ﬁ  eld in 2012.
“This is the culmination of four years of development, 
not just one,” said Nunez, who just graduated from UF in May with a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering.
The competition consists of eight categories — includ-
ing cost, presentation design and efﬁ  ciency, among others — that result in a composite score of 1,000. UF posted an 844.8 overall score and was the only team to post a perfect 
score in the acceleration category. 
Michael Braddock, a UF senior lecturer in the Depart-
ment of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and the 
Gator Motorsports faculty adviser, wrote in an email that the team works year-round for the annual competition and just making it to the competition is a feat of its own.
“Any SAE team that achieves their project goals, regard-
less of their competition ranking, deserves a tremendous 
amount of respect and accolade due to the challenges in-
herent in the project,” Braddock said.
Benjamin Boulch, one of the team’s drivers and a co-
captain for next year, said there is a sense of adrenaline when driving the formula car similar to riding a roller 
coaster.
“It’s very different from an average sedan or even a 
sports car,” the UF mechanical engineering junior said. 
“You’re sitting on the ground and the forces you’re ex-periencing are much greater than anything you’ve expe-rienced.”
Barely 24 hours after the group returned from its best 
ﬁ  nish at the event, about two dozen members worked in-side the group’s shop on Gale Lemerand Drive on Tues-day afternoon, already making preliminary plans for next year’s car.
After three top-10 ﬁ  nishes, the team is ready for its 
fourth.
“It’s literally from the time we get back from competi-
tion to the next competition,” Boulch said. “It’s an entire 
cycle.”Gator Motorsports drives to third place  
“Any SAE team that achieves their project goals, 
regardless of their competition ranking, deserves a 
tremendous amount of respect and accolade due to 
the challenges inherent in the project.”
Michael Braddock
Gator Motorsports Faculty AdviserThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWell, y’all, another week has come and gone. And with 
that, here’s your hoping-this-summer-continues-to-ﬂ  y edi-
tion of …
Darts and Laurels
Florida’s education system tends to get a bad reputa-
tion around the U.S., and as if it didn’t have enough marks against it already, high school and middle school students in 
about 20 Florida counties just found their math ﬁ  nals invali-
dated after test proctors gave them the wrong calculators.
But that’s quite alright, because technical difﬁ  culties 
aside, their scores would have been meaningless in the ﬁ  rst 
place. 
Florida announced on Monday that ﬁ  nal exams for alge-
bra and geometry courses won’t be counting toward student 
course grades or grade promotions. 
This is due to an independent validity study of the ex-
ams, which won’t be passing muster until after report cards are released. 
Due to this these bureaucratic developments, most stu-
dents won’t need to retake their exams, but tough luck to 
anyone hoping that their exam grade was going to turn their 
class grade around. 
Bravo, Florida, you just wasted an incalculable amount 
of time and stress for about 500,000 high schoolers and middle schoolers all over the bloody state and essentially 
rendered 30 percent of their grades a moot point. For this, 
we give the Florida education system an overly numeri-
cal DART.
On a more positive note, Monday is Memorial Day. 
When you think about Memorial Day weekend, many 
people think of going to the beach and grilling hot dogs or 
going on a road trip and staying in a sleazy motel with close friends. 
But the reality is this: Memorial Day, formerly known as 
Decoration Day, was established after the American Civil War to remember the Union and Confederate soldiers who died. 
We understand that the topic of war is one that most of 
us avoid. 
Our reasons for going to war have been controversial 
throughout history, which has undoubtedly caused tension between those with different viewpoints. 
We get it. It’s a sticky topic. 
But here’s another reality: We need to support our sol-
diers. 
Whether or not you agree with the war, look at the sol-
diers as individuals. 
Don’t simplify them to a measly number in the equation. 
Many of them have families waiting back home for them. 
Many of them will die seemingly unnoticed, or return with scars, both on their bodies and on their minds. 
The least we can do is show our support and apprecia-
tion. 
So try this out: thank a soldier, whether you see them in 
uniform on the street or if it’s someone you know person-ally. 
Just take the time to say thank you because none of us 
will ever be able to understand what their reality is when they come home, or what their family’s reality is when they do not. 
So this week, we give two LAURELS: one to the sol-
diers and one to those who support them. 
‘Mad Max’ perfect combo of action and feminism
As I was driving home from “Mad Max: Fury Road” last week, adrenaline still permeating my every extremity, I had 
to remind myself central Gainesville 
was not post-apocalyptic Australia 
and there would be little to gain from ramming my 2007 Toyota Camry into fellow drivers.
For those who aren’t aware and have some-
how managed to avoid the abundance of think pieces, critical acclaim and television ads, “Fury Road,” the ﬁ  rst iteration of the “Mad Max” series in 30 years, has thrown down the gauntlet and crowned 
itself as the ﬁ  lm to beat in this year’s blockbuster sea-
son.
“Fury Road” harkens back to the blockbusters of old 
(read: the ﬁ  lms of Ridley Scott and Steven Spielberg) in 
being not only a spectacle, but also a ﬁ  lm with genuine 
substance and thematic heft. The ﬁ  lm has, whether in-tentionally or not, found itself in the center of the on-going “debate” (if you could even call it that) over the “creeping inﬂ  uence” (note the continued use of quota-
tions) of feminist ideology in the larger cultural sphere.
For the sake of clariﬁ  cation, when I refer to femi-
nism in this article, I am referring to the notion that 
women are equal to men in personhood and ought to be 
treated as such. What on the surface would appear to be 
a simple 21st century ideal has unfortunately become a ﬂ  ashpoint of faux-outrage, blatant misogyny and utterly ridiculous debates over the roles women ought to oc-cupy in American society. By virtue of having multiple, 
substantive roles for women (at least by the standards 
of Hollywood action ﬁ  lms) and possessing a plot that concerns women being used purely for breeding purpos-es, “Mad Max: Fury Road” has been decried by MRAs 
— Men’s Rights Activists, for those of you who have 
somehow managed to avoid the shadiest corners of the internet — as a pernicious instance of femi-nist propaganda, castrating what was once a proud, testosterone-ﬁ  lled franchise to the 
point of unrecognizability.
Although the ﬁ  lm was initially scripted 
more than 10 years ago, long before Gamer-
gate or the rise of Queen Bey pushed feminism 
to the forefront, “Fury Road” not only captures 
the zeitgeist, but decisively takes a side in the ongoing dialogue over the place of feminism 
in today’s world. Quite simply, it ought to be treated as a necessity. At one point in the ﬁ  lm, a female character, 
taking stock of the wasteland around her, asks: “Who 
ruined the world?” It’s a provocative, challenging ques-tion, one that elevates “Fury Road” beyond its summer- blockbuster brethren.
Even without the subtext, “Fury Road” is quite pos-
sibly the most rousing action ﬁ  lm ever made. A labor of love for George Miller, who has written and directed every ﬁ  lm in the “Mad Max” saga, the ﬁ  lm reﬂ  ects a cer-tain auteurial vision that has become increasingly rare in 
the era of mass-produced Marvel Studios cookie cutters. 
Produced largely without the use of CGI, the ﬁ  lm’s ac-tion sequences never ring false, with its breathtaking set pieces and intimate hand-to-hand combat scenes inspir-
ing equal shock and awe.
Films as distinct as “Fury Road” only come along 
once in a while. Speaking for myself, I’d like to see more 
like it. To whoever is reading this and has yet to see the ﬁ  lm, I implore you to vote with your dollar and see it in 
theaters. If you’re feeling worn out by the onslaught of 
superhero ﬁ  lms and PG-13 horror movies, and if “Pitch Perfect 2” doesn’t ﬁ  t your idea of a good time, do your-self a favor and catch “Mad Max: Fury Road.”
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY MAY 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
It occurred to me that Tesla has become 
a household name when my not-so-car-savvy roommate blurted out the 
brand name during a categories round 
of Ring of Fire. I asked her how she 
knew what Tesla was, and she said she re-ally didn’t know but had heard about the 
brand.
She is not the ﬁ  rst person I know to sur-
prise me by mentioning Tesla. 
But similarly, the others who have men-
tioned the brand also don’t really know what it is. 
Their assumptions are pretty standard: 
“an exotic car” or “a sports car.”
But a Tesla is really much more than 
that.
Actually, people’s assumptions don’t in-
clude the most important fact about Teslas: 
They are completely electric cars.
Generally when people hear the words 
“electric car,” their minds jump to Toyota Prius and Nissan Leaf, but Tesla Motors’ goal is to change the image of the electric car.
The company has been working to 
achieve this goal since its inception in 2003. 
Tesla’s website lists its mission as, “to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable transport.”
The ﬁ  rst car from Tesla was 
the Tesla Roadster in 2008. It had an acceleration of 0 to 60 mph in 3.7 seconds and could travel a range of 245 miles on a fully 
charged battery.
In 2012, Tesla released the 
Model S, a sedan, which is 100 
percent electric. It has multiple models, the base 70D, the 85, the 85D and the P85D. 
The 70D has a 240-mile range per charge, 
can do 0 to 60 mph in 5.2 seconds and comes with 329 horsepower.
Compare that to a 2015 Nissan Leaf, 
which has zero emissions and zero power. The Leaf is also all-electric, but it has a dis-appointing 107 horsepower and can only travel 84 miles on a battery charge.
Tesla is redeﬁ  ning how electric cars are 
seen and even garnering some respect for them. 
The Model S was named Motor Trend’s 
Car of the Year in 2013 and received a 
5-star safety rating from the U.S. National 
Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety Administration.
One beneﬁ  t that can be seen with Teslas 
is the amount of miles one is able to travel on a battery charge. Teslas can be charged at home, but charg-ing units for these sporty cars are 
popping up in major cities and 
along popularly traveled routes. The Supercharger network, as Tesla calls it, is free to use and 
can give half a charge within 20 
minutes. 
In Florida alone, there are 11 
Supercharger stations, some conveniently located along Interstate 95 and Interstate 
75. So at the very least you could travel 
through Florida with relative ease.
These cars are beautiful, fast and zero 
emissions, but are they affordable? Well, 
the Model S 70D sedan starts at $57,500, 
after incentives and gas savings. 
The Tesla website is set up to conve-
niently tell you that you will save an esti-mated $10,000 on gas over ﬁ  ve years and 
in California, Colorado, Georgia, Louisi-
ana, Massachusetts and Utah, you will receive an incentive along with a $7,500 federal tax credit. But out the door, the car 
is really $75,000.The Model S 70D is the 
starting model and the price increases for the 85D and the P85D.
While these cars are on the expensive side and pricey to manufacture, Tesla’s goal does not seem to be ﬁ  nancial success. On June 12, 2014, CEO Elon Musk wrote a 
blog post on the Tesla website announcing 
that the Tesla patents would be released. The CEO felt that “intellectual property landmines” would be acting contrary to 
the company’s goal of accelerating sustain-
able transportation. He stated that Tesla would not be initiating any patent lawsuits against “anyone who, in good faith, wants to use our technology.”
I guess when you own Space Explora-
tion Technologies (SpaceX) and co-found-ed PayPal, Tesla revenue would just be pocket change to you, but it proves that 
Musk really is out to achieve sustainable 
transportation. He has put millions of his own money into Tesla in addition to the $150 million loan he took out in 2013 to invest in Tesla stock.
If you’re driving a Tesla, with 119 Su-
percharger stations in North America and up to 270 miles per battery charge, you might want to consider living by Vin Die-
sel’s motto in “Fast and Furious” (2001): “I 
live my life a quarter-mile at a time.”
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column runs on Thursdays.
What is a Tesla and why you’ve heard the name before reading this column
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.org
Column8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENT
IT DENIED THE RECOMMENDATION 
FOR SUPERVISOR OF ELECTIONS BY 
A VOTE OF 29 YES AND 42 NO.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
UF’s Student Government is still looking 
for a supervisor of elections after Student Body 
President Joselin Padron-Rasines’ recommen-dation failed to receive a two-thirds majority vote in the Student Senate on Tuesday.
Padron-Rasines nominated Sarah Winter, 
who served as an assistant supervisor for the last three elections.
Majority party leader Charlie Brown Jr. 
(Swamp, Agriculture) said during the ﬁ  rst round of pro-con debate that he felt Winter had a conﬂ  ict of interest because she volunteered for the Swamp Party in her ﬁ  rst semester on campus prior to becoming an assistant supervi-
sor of elections, which he said gave him reser-
vations about approving her nomination.“That’s not something our party stands for,” 
Brown said. “That’s not something I stand for.”
Minority party leader Michael Christ (Ac-
cess, Graduate) expressed his support for Win-ter during the following round, adding that if there were a conﬂ  ict of interest, it would have been revealed in at least one of the past three elections.
The recommendation was shot down after a 
vote of 29 yes to 42 no.
New Senators approved
UF’s Student Senate approved the recom-
mendation of 14 replacement senators: Three permanent replacements, three replacements for the Summer A semester and eight replace-ments for the Summer C semester. 
Twelve senators were also approved for 
seats on ﬁ  ve different standing committees, and Hammaad Saber (Access, Engineering) was ap-pointed as the Judiciary liaison. 
Legislation
The Senate unanimously approved Resolu-
tion 2015-1030 — Resolution Supporting the Expansion of Free Printing Across Campus — on Tuesday.Senate rejects nomination 
By Elise Engle
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences has something buzzing on the agenda.
UF’s IFAS is holding its third-annual Bug 
Week this week. The event started Monday 
and will end Saturday.
Bug Week began as a way to showcase 
what the institute does at UF, said Ruth 
Borger, the assistant vice president for com-munications for IFAS.
“They may not realize there are good 
bugs,” Borger said. “Some are very impor-tant to agriculture and affect us positively.”
There are a number of ways for UF stu-
dents to celebrate bugs during this year’s Bug Week. Students can post a “bug selﬁ  e” with the hashtag #UFBugs to join the dis-cussion and discover which creatures they are sharing campus with, Borger said.
There will also be a scavenger hunt Sat-urday at the Florida Museum of Natural His-tory and Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art.
IFAS will also be sharing resources 
throughout the week, including a “Bug of the Day” and a “Bug Word of the Day,” Borger said. 
Students away from campus for the 
Summer can still beneﬁ  t from Bug Week and explore the valuable role that bugs play in the environment. 
Through the use of social media plat-
forms, it is easy to participate in the event 
from any location, Borger said.
Oliver Keller, a 37-year-old student earn-
ing his doctoral degree in entomology, is 
leading the pack for online promotion. He manages the social media accounts for the Entomology and Nematology Student Orga-nization, a group that serves as a commu-nity for graduate students in the major.
Keller said he uses Twitter to post pic-
tures of bugs from UF’s Natural Area Teach-ing Laboratory to promote interest.UF students use social media 
to get involved in Bug WeekKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Jackson Scott to perform ﬁ  rst time in GNV
Read how Scott imagines his ideal show on pg. 12   What’s inside: 
-Review on Snoop Dogg’s latest release, “BUSH, ” pg. 10-Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Portlandia” edition, pg. 11By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Shauna Healey, a UF student 
and the creative voice behind 
the stage name Boyfriend Mate-rial, will take the stage for her record-release show Saturday.
The touring singer, ukulele 
player and dancer will perform at the Atlantic Nightspot, lo-
cated at 15 N. Main St. Doors 
open at 9 p.m. and tickets can be purchased at the door for $8 or in advance for $6 on www.showclix.com.
The solo singer/songwriter 
has a knack for turning nega-tives into positives. As a survi-vor of both sexual abuse and do-
mestic violence, the 21-year-old 
singer has triumphed through the dark periods in her life and channeled that energy into her music. Healey writes lyrics as an outlet when times get tough in her personal life.
Her latest album, “Far From 
Home,” is set to release June 9. 
Part of her goal with the album 
is not only to help rape and 
abuse survivors, but to allow 
others to understand it as well.
“My intention is for it to be a 
positive thing,” Healey said. “I 
want people to know that this is an extremely common thing. I just want it to be known that this is a serious issue that is not being handled enough.”
Making music and perform-
ing have been therapeutic and continue to help Healey tell the story she is just beginning to open up about.
“My writing process is just 
me ranting — it’s a huge rant,” Healey said.
Having toured different 
states with her solo act since August, she is no stranger to the stage. Boyfriend Material was created on a whim when Heal-
ey started a musical project that 
gained interest on the Internet. As a result, she was invited to perform in North Carolina, and that became the ﬁ  rst of many shows to follow.
“My ﬁ  rst show was on tour, 
which was pretty nerve-wrack-ing because I’d never played in 
front of anyone,” Healey said. 
“That was tough.”
Healey, originally from Coral 
Springs, Florida, said she was musically inclined from a young age and played a number of dif-ferent instruments growing up.
Now residing in Gainesville, Healey blends in as just an-other student working toward a degree. Her choice of study: History. Inspired by an aunt who teaches history, Healey explained that her love for the 
subject stems from active expo-sure to historical sites.
Currently in the middle of 
a packed schedule, Healey is 
excited for graduation. With a part-time job and a scheduled tour, she said it hasn’t been 
easy to balance everything, but she manages.
As an activist for safety in 
the music industry, Healey also 
works as a member of Florida Scene Safe Space, a group that promotes a secure environment for artists.
“She really is an amazing 
woman,” Sean Hermann, Heal-ey’s publicist, wrote in an email. 
THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF student Shauna Healey, the voice behind the stage name Boyfriend Material, will 
play a record-release show Saturday at the Atlantic Nightspot, 15 N. Main St.
UF student to play record-release show
By Kemi Thomas 
Avenue Writer
Best-selling country musical “Honky Tonk 
Angels” is returning to Gainesville after 13 
years.
The country comedy starring Katrina Asmar, 
Marissa Toogood and Juliana Davis will kick off with a preview screening, beginning 7 p.m. Wednesday at the Hippodrome State Theatre, 
25 SE Second Place.
The show will feature music from coun-
try icons Dolly Parton, Tammy Wynette, Lo-
retta Lynn and more. Fans can expect to hear more than 30 different songs, includ-
ing hits such as “These Boots Are Made for 
Walking” and “I Will Always Love You.”    With the musical being one of the best-selling in Hippodrome history, Lauren Warhol 
Caldwell, the Hippodrome’s artistic director, re-
ceived a lot of requests to bring it back.
“You got to give people long enough to want 
to miss something,” Caldwell said.
The musical takes its viewers through the 
journey of three women, each from different walks of life, who cross paths on a bus ride to the bustling city of Nashville. Their shared dream of becoming country music superstars 
creates a tight bond and a girl group called the 
Honky Tonk Angels.  
Judy Locascio, a fan of the Hippodrome’s 
summer musicals, is looking forward to watch-
ing the show when it premieres.
“They (the summer musicals) are lightheart-
ed and they make me feel so happy,” Locascio 
said. “I always go there multiple times.”
Meanwhile, Caldwell has devoted herself 
to bringing back the same energy and perfor-
mance that fans loved in 2002.
Caldwell, who directed the musical the ﬁ  rst 
time it aired, now has an entirely new ensemble 
of set designers, choreographers and actors.  
Caldwell shrugged off the idea of feeling 
pressured and instead offered a word of advice that ties in with the message of the musical:
“If you got a dream, you got to be coura-
geous and take a risk, because if you don’t, 
you’ll never know what’s on the other side of 
the bridge if you’re too afraid to cross it.”‘Honky Tonk 
Angels’ returns to Hippodrome
“If you got a dream, you got to be 
courageous and take a risk, because if you 
don’t, you’ll never know what’s on the other 
side of the bridge if you’re too afraid to 
cross it.”
Lauren Warhol Caldwell
artistic directorIt helps survivors of rape, abuseBy Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
PORTLANDIATHURSDAY MAY 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
SNOOP DOGG’S LATEST RELEASE, 
PRODUCED BY PHARRELL WIL-
LIAMS, INTRODUCES A FRESH 
STYLE AND PROVES AN OLD 
‘DOGG’ CAN LEARN NEW TRICKS.
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Rapper Snoop Dogg has never been one 
to shy away from testing new waters with 
his music.
His latest album, “Bush,” released May 
12, deviates from nearly every square inch of his discography, which should be ex-pected after his stint as a reggae singer. Pro-duced almost entirely by longtime collabo-
rator Pharrell Williams, the album revolves 
around up-tempo basslines, funky beats and catchy vocals. The quaint project features appearances from Stevie Wonder, Kendrick Lamar and more.
“Bush” opens with “California Roll,” a 
laid-back ode to the West Coast. Although the song starts with a fast-paced, modern-sounding drop, it quickly transitions into a 
mellow wave of soft-spoken vocals and pia-
no notes tied together by a snap and a har-monica. Pharrell handles the chorus while Wonder sings backup. Meanwhile, Snoop 
hops in to give listeners a 
tour of the city.
Further along in the al-
bum, the listener encoun-
ters “Awake,” a high-en-ergy, electric-guitar-ﬁ  lled 
anthem from outer space. 
The chorus begins abrupt-
ly, but Snoop’s laid-back 
raps counteract it to form a neat contrast. 
The song then transitions to a digitized fal-
setto hook sung by Pharrell that’s reminis-cent of an early Daft Punk.
In “I Knew That,” the second-to-last song 
on the album, Snoop sees a woman staring 
and imagines riding on her “wave.” Delib-
erately simplistic but catchy lyrics over a soulful melody detail both sides of a club encounter. Two choruses are fused togeth-er over a palm-muted guitar and roaring 
synths.
Due to the album’s instrumental struc-
ture, songs tend to fuse together. In what 
seems like no time, the 10-song album is 
over, and if you’re anything like me, you’re 
replaying it.Snoop Dogg’s latest album, ‘BUSH,’ introduces new rhythm
Snoop Dogg
The dream of the ‘90s is alive 
in Portland, or at least according to 
IFC’s quirky comedy “Portlandia.” The show’s satirical approach to the hipster culture will have you bending 
over laughing at its accuracy — and 
maybe even realizing you’re guilty of a few hipster-isms yourself.
Comedians Carrie Brownstein 
and Fred Armisen star in the slightly scripted, mostly improvised comedy series. Featuring an array of charac-ters ranging from extreme feminists to obsessive vegans to lazy bohe-mians, the writers and actors have captured everything that makes you 
cringe about the subculture in a 
lighthearted and harmless manner.
If you’d rather lounge on your 
pleather couch this summer and not engage in any activity that entails suntan lotion and a Pitbull Pandora station, then “Portlandia” is for you.
Netﬂ  ix currently streams the ﬁ  rst 
four seasons, offering enough epi-sodes to have you feeling like you’re in Portland, “The place where young 
people go to retire,” according to the 
comedy.
So take out your farmers-market 
snacks and locally brewed alcohol-ic refreshments. Here’s a drinking game for your binging.
Take a sip…
 For every Women and Women First skit
 When Fred wears a wig or facial hair
 Every time Nina says  “Cacao”
 Peter and Nance are uncomfortable in 
publicTake a shot…
 When Fred and Carrie are playing opposite 
genders
 The mayor seeks Fred and Carrieʼs help
 The characters break into a musical 
number
Finish your drink…
 To help you through the showʼs awkward 
intimate moments
 To help you cope when you realize youʼve 
done something theyʼre criticizing — itʼs 
OK, it happens to all of us.
Take a sip…
For every Women and Women First skit
When Fred wears a wig or facial hair
Every time Nina says  “Cacao”
Peter and Nance are uncomfortable in 
 
genders
 
 The mayor seeks Fred and Carrieʼs help
 
 The characters break into a musical 
number
Finish your drink…
 
 To help you through the showʼs awkward 
intimate moments
 
 To help you cope when you realize youʼve 
done something theyʼre criticizing — itʼs 
OK, it happens to all of us.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging 
on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week for the newest game.By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
Jackson Scott is bringing his band 
to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time, and the 
psychedelic power trio plans to elicit all 
kinds of audience reactions.
“Sometimes we just like to mess with 
the crowd,” Scott said. “You know, re-
ally make them think about things and 
make the ticket worth their while.”
The indie psych-pop band, consist-
ing of lead singer and guitarist Jackson 
Scott, drummer Aaron Kostial and bass-ist Chase Gorter, will perform Wednes-
day at the High Dive, located at 210 SW 
Second Ave.
Doors will open at 9 p.m. and tickets 
can be purchased in advance for $7 on 
www.ticketweb.com.
The Asheville-based trio will be 
reaching parts of Florida for the ﬁ  rst 
time on this tour. Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents, said recent shows 
from similar bands have garnered popu-
larity at the High Dive.
“So Gainesville should be excited to 
see this show,” Lavery said.
Fans can expect to hear songs from the band’s latest release, “Sunshine Redux,” as well as tracks from their 
2013 release, “Melbourne.”
Scott said his style is a combination 
of genres, ranging from ‘60s and ‘90s 
rock to contemporary rap.
“I really like all kinds of different 
stuff, and I try to put all the stuff that I like into the music,” Scott said. “It could 
be really heavy. Sometimes it could be 
kind of, just, really out there.”
The performer described his ideal 
show as having a symbiotic effect, with both the band and the crowd feeding off 
one another’s energy.
“Ideally, the energy is completely, 
all like, totally ﬂ  uid with the crowd and 
us, the act,” Scott said. “Then it just 
becomes, kind of, this giant orgasm of 
sound.”
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni221912   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jackson Scott will bring his psychedelic pop act to the High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave.
Jackson Scott, band to perform in GNV for first time
“Iris”
The Hippodrome State Theatre — 6:30 p.m. 
 25 SE Second Place / Tickets $5.50 - $7.50FRIDAY, MAY 22 SATURDAY, MAY 23
“I Am Big Bird: The Caroll Spinney Story”
The Wooly — 8:30 p.m. 
20 N. Main St.  / Tickets $5Hip Hop Showcase
High Dive — 9 p.m. 
210 SW Second Ave.  / Tickets $7
A Culinary History of Florida
Matheson History Museum — 1 p.m. 
513 E. University Ave. / Tickets $5Trina
The Venue — 9 p.m. 
233 W. University Ave.  / Tickets $10-$20
“The Art of T eaching”
Artisans’ Guild Gallery — 10 a.m. 
201 SE Second Place #113 / Free EventSUNDAY, MAY 24
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLEﬁ l m /uni2219  dance /uni2219  music /uni2219  art /uni2219  theatre /uni2219 /uni2219  theatre /uni2219  art /uni2219  music /uni2219  dance /uni2219  ﬁ l m“Sometimes we just like to mess 
with the crowd. You know, really 
make them think about things 
and make the ticket worth their 
while.”
Jackson Scott
lead singer and guitaristTHURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    5-28-15-28-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-21-15-35-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-21-15-35-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-21-15-35-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1490. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
6-18-15-20-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
HALF BLOCK TO UF
$525 rent, August 1st. Four 3BR apts, quad, 
1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 condition, extras paid for, free parking, compare. 352-514-5060    5-21-15-5-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   6-4-15-8-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
Close to UF 4BR/3BA House
Excellent condition. Fenced yard. Pet friend-ly. Call Mike 352-665-7316. 621 NW 35th St.    5-21-15-3-2TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of 
your friends but don't be responsible for their 
rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets 
and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus 
Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
2 Female Roommates to share 3BR/2BA condo asap, 5 mins from UF, Fitted Kitchen, Laundry, TV/Internet, Utilities incl, $550 per month.Call 208-589 6261    5-26-15-5-4
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
LIVE ON-SITE AUCTIONHiawassee - Towns CountyBeautiful Mountain LotsJune 20th, 11 AMSeller is very motivated!JL TODD AUCTION CO.800-241-7591JLTODD.comGA.LIC. #316     5-21-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    5-21-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
2014 Jeep Compass for sale. 6600 mile-age, only one owner, great conditions, for $19,000. PRICE IS NEGOTIABLE   Call 832-851-7561     5-28-15-6-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
5-14-14-25-13 
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing 
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
7 Computers 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY MAY 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales 
staff in outside newspaper advertising 
sales. Motivator needed who works well 
with a constantly changing staff. Duties 
include training university students in 
outside newspaper sales, layout and copy 
writing. Must work well within and meet 
daily deadlines. Good organizational skills 
a must. Newspaper ad sales background 
an advantage. Modest salary, good benefits 
and excellent working environment. With 
resume, send cover letter that must include 
salary requirements, to: General Manager, 
The Independent Florida Alligator, P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, FL 32604 or email to 
tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
Looking for a PRN cleaner for home,office,& apartment cleanings...Please contact Caleitha@ 352-214-0868 call/text...You must pass a drug,reference, & background check..    5-21-4-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.              5-28-15-6-14MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
Fan Head is seeking a Campus Czar this summer/fall to promote its fun, innovative Gator wearable. Gain retail partners, work with campus groups and coordinate game-day sales. Great incentive compensation. Contact us at customerservice@myfanhead.com.    5-26-15-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
6-2-15-14-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience pre-ferred. Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.
com      5-28-15-5-14
FREE Private Efficiency+$500 month + 
health insurance. Couple in late 40's needs 
gestational surrogate (our own egg)Prefer age 20-38 Healthy +had at least one baby.Open to offers. TEXT ONLY - 305 582 9800   7-9-15-14-14
BABYSITTER WANTED,
$12/hr - kids age 6 to 12. Experience re-
quired, emails resume and references to 
rosenson@ufl.edu    5-28-15-3-14DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, with
good customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    5-21-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    5-21-1-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    5-21-1-14
Want A Career Operating Heavy Equipment? Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators. Hands On Training! Certifications Offered. National Average 18-22hr. Lifetime Job Placement . VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    5-21-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    5-21-1-15
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 
mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858   5-21-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    5-21-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: June 1, 2015 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     5-21-1-20
Designated drivers are the greatest
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment 20 Event Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 15 ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF baseball begins SEC tourney
The Gators played Arkansas on
Wednesday in the SEC T ournament. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sportsThe University of Florida men's basketball, women's tennis and softball programs have been recognized by the NCAA for oustanding academic performance. 
Lauren Haeger named Player of the Year finalist
University of Florida senior Lauren Haeger is one of three finalists for the 
2015 USA Softball Collegiate Player of the Year, the Amateur Softball As-sociation of America announced Wednesday. Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
It was an opportunity described 
as too good to pass up for former 
Florida men’s basketball coach Billy Donovan: an opportunity to make the leap to coaching in the 
NBA, the pinnacle of his profes-
sion. 
Whatever initial shock that de-
veloped in Gainesville following Donovan's departure to coach the Oklahoma City Thunder was soon tempered by realism, an under-standing that Donovan had given nearly two decades of work and 
devotion to developing the Univer-
sity of Florida into a perennial bas-ketball powerhouse.
“It definitely was a shock,” red-
shirt senior forward Alex Murphy said. “I was here in Gainesville late that week … so I was able to see him in person. It was emotional, but it was exciting, too.
“I don’t think he would have 
been able to live with himself if he passed up on that one.”
Following his farewell press 
conference on May 4, Donovan said he was at peace with the deci-sion to move on from Florida.
Now it’s time for the players he 
left behind to do the same — live 
with Donovan’s decision and be-
come at peace with it.
“Coach Donovan built this 
place, he built Florida basketball,” Murphy said. “But I think … with this new staff just from the little that we’ve seen I think we’re still headed in absolutely the right di-
rection.”
Winning wasn’t the standard 
last season, as Florida staggered 
to a disappointing 16-17 finish that kept the Gators out of the postsea-son in Donovan’s first losing sea-son since 1997-98.
If anything, new Florida coach 
Mike White knows more about 
winning than most players on the 
roster.
White’s Louisiana Tech teams 
won at least 27 games the past three seasons, and he coached the Bulldogs to a 50-16 conference re-cord during his four-year tenure in Ruston, Louisiana.
But that was then, and this is 
now.
This is the Southeastern Con-
ference, a league White is familiar with from playing with Ole Miss from 1995-99, but it’s an entirely different beast when you’re coach-ing the action in a suit and tie from the sidelines.
Although he had proven him-
self in Ruston, and to the basket-ball pundits who labeled him an up-and-comer in coaching, White’s latest challenge is proving himself to the Florida players left in the wake of Donovan’s exit.
For Murphy, who transferred 
to UF from Duke in Dec. 2013, he said the initial shock was soon re-
placed with excitement after hear-
ing White had been hired.
“I had heard his name was at 
the top of the list, like a couple days before that,” Murphy said. “Everything I heard was positive. Great coach, great person. I was anxious to get down here and meet him for myself.”
Murphy, along with his team-
mates, are back in Gainesville for the summer, ready to get back to work — and meet the new staff.
“In the short time we’ve been 
together, he’s lived up to every-thing that I’ve heard,” Murphy said about meeting White. “Already he’s developed a relationship with 
a lot of us guys.”One of those guys is Devin Rob-
inson, who is excited about play-
ing for the first Florida team led by White.
“Last year is over with. It was 
rough,” Robinson said. “But com-ing in this year, we’ve got a whole different mindset of what we need to get done and what it takes to win.”
That mindset is to play team-
first basketball – something Dono-van repeatedly said the team strug-gled with last season.While the growth into a team-
first basketball team won’t happen overnight, Florida is hoping it hap-pens under White.
“If we can take some of the 
mistakes that we made, and some of the things that happened last year and learn from them and help us grow, that would be the best thing,” Murphy said. “I think the culture here is going to remain the same. Winning is the standard and I think we’re all excited to continue that.”
Florida eager for fresh start under Mike White
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson attempts a shot during Florida's 66-62 win against T exas A&M on March 3 in the 
O'Connell Center. Robinson averaged 6.4 points last season for the Gators as a freshman. 
UF SOFTBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Seven games.
Florida catcher Aubree Munro and her 
teammates did the math. The Gators softball 
team could win their next seven games and 
be crowned national champions once again.
“It’s crazy to think seven more games 
and we’re champions, but we don’t get there 
without winning the first two,” Munro said.
Come this weekend, Florida will have a 
chance to win those first two games against 
Kentucky in the NCAA Super Regionals at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Saturday’s game between the Gators and Wildcats is scheduled for 1 p.m. and will be televised on ESPNU. Sunday’s will begin at 
noon and will air on ESPN.
Unlike UF’s regional pool last weekend 
that featured three teams Florida hadn’t 
faced this season, UF and UK have played 
each other three times this year.
Florida swept Kentucky on April 11-13 
with a combined score of 9-3 and owns a 45-
13 overall record and 23-6 home record all-time against Kentucky.
Florida’s sweep of the Wildcats was not 
an easy one, as the Gators had trouble scor-ing runs against pitcher Kelsey Nunley.
“I thought our at-bats were good,” coach 
Tim Walton said. “We scored early in both games. Kelsey Nunley doesn’t give up a lot of home runs so you gotta keep the ball out of the air.”
Nunley tossed a total of 12 innings against 
the Gators in the series, allowing just three earned runs while striking out eight batters. Though she’s 14-14 this year, Nunley boasts 
a 2.39 ERA.
“She can get on your hands pretty good, 
and the off-speed pitches she was featuring 
were better than in the past,” Walton said. 
“She’s a really strong competitor, so we gotta 
do a good job of not wasting our at-bats.”One matchup that could work out in favor 
for the Gators is their pitching versus Ken-
tucky’s hitting.
For starters, Florida has arguably the best 
pitcher in the Southeastern Conference in 
Lauren Haeger. Haeger is 26-1 in the circle 
while compiling an SEC-leading 1.34 ERA.
In two starts against Kentucky this sea-
son, Haeger threw two complete game shut-
outs, allowing four hits in 14 innings.
Haeger spearheads a Florida pitching staff 
that leads the conference with a 1.73 ERA.
Comparing that with some of Kentucky’s 
offensive numbers might lead one to believe that another Florida sweep is in order this 
weekend.Gators preparing for familiar foe in NCAA Super Regionals Gators beginning drills
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19“Coming off a national championship, 
the target's on your back.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Karolina Vlckova, a sophomore 
from the Czech Republic, will rep-
resent the University of Florida women’s golf team at the NCAA Women’s Golf Championship on Friday.
The NCAA Women’s Golf 
Championship will be played in 
Bradenton at The Concession Golf 
Club May 22-27.
Although the team’s season end-
ed after shooting 38-over-par dur-
ing the NCAA Regional, Vlckova 
will play for an individual title for 
the Gators.
“It’s an unfortunate end to the 
year,” coach Emily Glaser said in 
a release. “This team has come a 
long way since the fall, where we 
battled through some adversity. The good news is that we learned a lot about ourselves this year as a 
team.”
Vlckova qualiﬁ  ed as an individ-
ual for the national championship 
tournament after shooting her sea-son-best round score and ﬁ  nishing 
1-over-par at the regional competi-
tion.
She placed eighth at Regionals in Raleigh, North Carolina. The 
top-10 ﬁ  nish for Vlckova marked 
her ﬁ  fth top-10 this season and her 
seventh top-25 ﬁ  nish.
Vlckova led the Gators in both 
categories and had the best stroke 
average on the team averaging 73.6 
strokes per round.
Her highest ﬁ  nish this year for 
the Gators was at the SunTrust Gator Invitational where she ﬁ  n-
ished tied for second.
In the last ﬁ  ve tournaments 
Vlckova has ﬁ  nished tied for sec-
ond, sixth, fourth, 17th and ﬁ  nished in sole possession of eighth place at the NCAA Raleigh Regional.
This will be the second time 
Vlckova will play in the NCAA Championship. 
Last season, as a part of a Gator 
team that qualiﬁ  ed for NCAAs, Vlckova shot 22-over-par and ﬁ  n-ished tied for 98th in the ﬁ  nal tour-nament of the season.
“I’m happy for Karolina to be 
going to Nationals,” Glaser said. “She has had a wonderful sopho-more season and has carried the team since March. Obviously, it’s bittersweet for her. Karolina is the deﬁ  nition of a team player and played her heart out this week for her teammates.”Sophomore battling for 
NCAA individual title
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Karolina Vlckova high ﬁ  ves coach Emily Glaser during the ﬁ  nal round of the 2015 SunTrust 
Gator Invitational on March 8. 
KAROLINA VLCKOVA 2014-15 SEASON STATS
 Best Finish  - Tied for 2nd  
  at SunTrust Gator Invitational  T op-10 Finishes  - Five
 T op-25 Finishes  - Seven
 Stroke Average  - 73.6 
THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
In the SEC, Kentucky ranks 
second to last in most offensive 
categories including batting av-
erage (.255) and runs per game 
(3.98).
“I think all we need to do is 
work on hitting our locations, 
being aggressive and going at ev-
ery batter,” Munro said. “We’re conﬁ  dent in our pitchers’ abili-ties and what they can bring, and they’ve obviously had some suc-
cess against Kentucky before.”
Despite Kentucky’s shortage 
of offense and its 5-19 conference 
record, the Wildcats have proven 
both this year and last year that 
they can hang with teams like Florida.
The Wildcats went 3-0 in the 
NCAA South Bend Regional last 
weekend, taking down the No. 
16-seed Notre Dame. This year will mark UK’s third straight NCAA Super Regional appear-ance.
As the No. 14 seed in 2014, 
Kentucky defeated No. 3-seeded 
UCLA in Super Regionals to ad-
vance to the NCAA Women’s College World Series, where they won their ﬁ  rst game before being eliminated.
Because Kentucky has the 
ability to upset Florida, Walton said he and his team aren’t tak-ing Kentucky lightly.
“Coming off of a national 
championship, the target’s on your back,” Walton said. “It’s easy to go through and think, ‘oh hey, we’re gonna do it again,’ 
and I don’t think we’ve prepared 
that way.”
That’s why Munro and the 
Gators are just focusing on win-
ning a pair of games this week-
end, no matter how they do it.
“I don’t care if it’s a one-run 
game. I don’t care if it’s a run-rule game,” Munro said. “All 
I care about is winning two 
games.”SOFTBALL,  from pg 17UF swept UK in April
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aubree Munro catches during Florida's 7-1 win against Kansas on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium. She was Florida's starting catcher in the April 11-13 series against Kentucky. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 21, 2015
Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
The Florida women’s tennis team had ﬁ  ve indi-
viduals compete on Wednesday in the ﬁ  rst round 
of the NCAA Singles competition at the Hurd Ten-nis Center of Baylor University in Waco, Texas.
But once the ﬁ  rst round ﬁ  nished, only two — 
freshman Josie Kuhlman and sophomore Belinda Woolcock — advanced.
Following a slight rain delay, No. 56-ranked 
Kourtney Keegan battled with UNC’s No. 20-ranked Caroline Price in Keegan’s ﬁ  rst appearance at the NCAA Singles competition. But Price quickly over-powered Keegan, taking the ﬁ  rst set, 6-1. Despite 
winning three games in the second set, Keegan 
eventually fell 6-3 to seal the loss.
Following Keegan, No. 28-ranked Brianna Mor-
gan took the court to face No. 57-ranked Madison 
Westby from Southern California. Westby jumped 
all over Morgan in the ﬁ  rst set, handedly winning 
6-0, but Morgan wasn’t done yet.
The junior took the second set, 6-3, to force a 
third and ﬁ  nal set.
In the end, Westby proved to be too much for 
Morgan, winning the decisive set, 6-3, and sending Morgan back to Gainesville.
After two Gators failed to advance, Woolcock 
stepped onto the court hoping to get the victory that 
her teammates couldn’t snag.The No. 58-ranked sophomore came out hot 
against ninth-ranked Lorraine Guillermo from Pep-perdine, taking the ﬁ  rst set, 6-2.
Woolcock, an alternate in the 64-player ﬁ  eld, 
didn’t let her intensity wane and coolly delivered under pressure, sealing the match with a 6-3 vic-tory in the second set. 
Up next was No. 13-ranked 
Kuhlman battling No. 35-ranked 
Kyle McPhillips. Kuhlman bat-
tled with her opponent and took 
the ﬁ  rst set, 6-4. 
McPhillips had no response 
in the second set as Kuhlman 
won, 6-1, sending the freshman 
through to the second round. 
As the day drew to a close, No. 3-ranked Brooke 
Austin battled with No. 47-ranked Jennifer Brady 
from UCLA in Florida’s ﬁ  nal matchup of the ﬁ  rst 
round. 
Austin and Brady went back and forth in the 
ﬁ  rst set before Brady pulled out the victory, 7-6. Austin battled back in the second game, winning 
the ﬁ  rst two games of the second set, but Brady 
made sure to turn it around and take the match in 
straight sets with 6-3 second set victory. 
As Kuhlman and Woolcock prepare for their 
second round matchups, the No. 6-ranked doubles 
pair of Austin and Keegan will take on the No. 
27-ranked pair of Shayne Austin and Briar Preston 
from Arizona in the NCAA Doubles competition.UF women’s tennis competing 
at NCAA Singles and Doubles
Alligator File Photo
Belinda Woolcock hits a two-handed backhand during Florida’s 4-0 win 
against Maryland on Jan. 25 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Thornqvist
