VOLUME 109 ISSUE 120 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
The Avenue Summer Guide to Music Festivals
Read our lowdown on Big Guava, Bonnaroo and more, pg 10.  
Controlled burn smoke wafts to campus, concerns students
The burn in Dixie County, pg 5. Steamers owner to reopen restaurant in 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza
It will serve Indonesian food, pg. 5. 82/61
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14
Treon Harris 
is competing with 
Will Grier to be the 
starting quarterback 
on the UF football 
team. Read the story 
on page 14.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
The Model
Geena Rocero, a transgender model and the founder of advocacy group Gender Proud, speaks to a group of students  Wednesday night in the UF Holloway Touchdown Terrace about her experiences as a transgender woman growing up in the Philippines. “At a certain point, people’s ignorance could not be my internal reality,” Rocero said.
CAMPUS
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Gabriel Mondry folded his arms and stuck 
out his hip to ﬂ  aunt a black leather gun case.
He and other members of Students for 
Concealed Carry planned the Empty Holster 
Protest for the end of March to educate stu-
dents on what members believe is the minimal impact of passing House Bill 4005, a new piece 
of legislation that would allow concealed carry permit holders to carry weapons on campus.
“We’re making an effort to show we have 
holsters,” the 19-year-old UF health science sophomore said. “If we were really carrying 
ﬁ  rearms, no one would even know.”
A sister bill — Senate Bill 0176 —  was ap-proved through a Senate committee Monday 
and the house bill through a House committee Wednesday. As it continues to gain support in Congress, Mondry and a few fellow members of the UF chapter of SCC began sporting their empty holsters Wednesday.
Mondry and Joshua Roe, president of the 
organization, wore outside-the-waistband holsters as a peaceful demonstration for the bill, they said. If the bill passes, they would conceal the guns with inside-the-waistband holsters. “It won’t create a Wild West environment,” 
Mondry said. “People won’t notice them. They’re freaking out about nothing.”
Even if the bill passes, Mondry wouldn’t be 
eligible to tote his ﬁ  rearm on campus or any public place. Permit holders must be at least 21 
years old, which limits the number of possible 
concealed ﬁ  rearm-carriers on campus.  
Roe, a certiﬁ  ed EMT and ﬁ  rst-year UF tour-
ism, recreation and sport management Ph.D. candidate, said few people will actually strap Concealed carry bill passes through subcommittees
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College is now the No. 1 community college 
in the U.S.
The Aspen Institute, an organization that studies edu-
cation, awarded Santa Fe $800,000 and the 2015 Aspen Prize for Community College Excellence on Wednesday 
for its high student success rates.
The institution cited Santa Fe’s graduation and trans-
fer rates, minority student success rates, and its student 
advising, registration and monitoring program as reasons for success. Santa Fe, along with nine other community colleges, were selected out of more than 1,000 institutions by the Aspen Institute.
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Santa Fe has made it on the list 
for the award, which is given out every two years. They 
were ﬁ  nalists in 2013 after a 2012 nomination.
The award follows second lady Jill Biden’s historical 
visit to the college last week. Biden spoke in Washington, 
D.C., on Wednesday at the Aspen event about her sup-port for community colleges and their ability to positively affect students’ lives.
“Now more than ever, Americans are relying on com-
munity colleges as stepping stones to college degrees and a better future,” Biden said.SFC ranked No. 1 
community college
 THE MAN WAS LOOKING FOR HIS 
GIRLFRIEND.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Deputies are investigating a fatal shooting 
Wednesday of a Gainesville man who was 
looking for his ex-girlfriend.
Just before 1 a.m., Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies responded to reports of a shooting at America’s Best Value Inn, at 7413 W. Newber-ry Road, according to a press release. When authorities arrived, they found a body outside one of the motel rooms, which was later iden-tiﬁ  ed as 36-year-old Van S. Gourdine.
Gourdine had been searching for his ex-
girlfriend for several days, and had made threats to harm her if he found her, according to the release. 
Once Gourdine found her in the motel, he broke a window and tried to enter the room, but someone in the room shot him.
Although the shooter surrendered to po-
lice, he or she has not yet been publicly identi-ﬁ  ed.
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesman Art Forgey said 
Gourdine had a bullet wound in his head.
“In the last four or ﬁ  ve years, we haven’t 
had an incident of this type at any of the mo-tels here,” he said.
America’s Best Value Inn management de-clined to comment on the incident.
The investigation is ongoing, although 
Forgey said the shooting appears to be justi-ﬁ  ed after listening to witness testimonies and obtaining voicemails and text messages left by Gourdine.
Gourdine has a history of domestic vio-
lence against the woman, according to the re-lease. He was charged with domestic battery in February, but the charges were dropped 
due to insufﬁ  cient evidence.Police: man fatally shot attempting to break into motel roomSEE AWARD, PAGE 4SEE GUN, PAGE 4Pro-gun demonstration held News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 120 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarMONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
RAIN
77/52PARTLY 
CLOUDY
84/63SUNNY
88/63SUNNY
88/61THUNDER-
STORMS
82/61WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Musicology symposium
Join us for the Student 
Society for Musicology’s Music and Meaning Research Symposium, an interdisci-
plinary conference. Keynote 
speaker is Thomas Turino, professor emeritus of mu-sicology and anthropology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. This event is from 1:55 to 6 p.m. on Friday and 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday in MUB 101. This 
event is free and open to the 
public. For more info visit uf-musicology.wordpress.com.
UF Fulbright Speakers Lecture 
Series presents Plant Biology Mini-SymposiumThis event takes place Friday from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
in Fifield Hall, Rooms 1304-08. 
The presenters are Emilio M. Bruna, department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation and the Center for Latin American Studies, a Faculty Fulbright Scholar in 2009-2010 in Brazil; Annette Fahrenkrog, a Fulbright Ph.D. student from 
Chile in the Plant Molecular & 
Cellular Biology Program in the School of Forest Resources and Conservation; and Lilit Vardanyan, a senior research scientist, UNESCO Chair - Life Sciences International Postgraduate Educational Center (Armenia), current 
visiting Fulbright Scholar in 
the Soil and Water Sciences Department. For additional information, please contact Dr. Charles Guy, Dept. of Environmental Horticulture.
GatorNights
The land of Panem welcomes 
you to the epicenter of all of 
the districts, The Capitol, on Friday from 8:00 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. in the Reitz Union! Revel in luxury as the capital person you are with massages, elaborate jewelry making and a Capitol fashion show from Pride Struts Its Stuff. For you 
unfortunate tributes of the workshop will highlight the benefits of training for power 
and highlight several exercises used for successful training. No registration is required and the event is free for UF students.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Quarter Quell, report to the 
Training Center immediately 
to test your skills. But what’s this? The Capitol’s television signal has been hacked! The Mockingjay has a message for the people of Panem — a special outdoor showing of the movie “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1” 
at 9 p.m. on the North Lawn. 
Should weather turn damp, the Mockingjay’s message will still be broadcast at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. We’re always Friday, always free, with your Gator 1 Card!
Gator Open Climb
Come out to Lake Wauburg’s South Shore for a once-a-se-mester opportunity to climb to new heights. RecSports is now offering two days of climbing and adventure on the 40-foot-tall Alpine Tower and the High Ropes and 
Elements Challenge Course 
on Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The High Ropes and Elements Challenge Course will be open climb for pre-regis-tered students on Saturday and the Alpine Tower (no registration necessary) will 
be open climb on Sunday. 
No equipment is necessary, but don’t forget your Gator 1 Card.
Weekend Warrior: Training 
for PowerJoin RecSports on Saturday for Weekend Warrior: 
Training for Power from 
1 to 2 p.m. in the Student Recreational Center Cardio Functional Area. With equipment ranging from kettlebells to plyo boxes, this 
2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
LAURA CARDONA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Martha Barnett answered questions 
about civic engagement and her involve-
ment in the Rosewood massacre case with 
southern charm.
Former U.S. Sen. Bob Graham inter-
viewed the lawyer and former president of 
the American Bar Association in front of a 
crowd of about 50 lawyers, UF law school 
alumni, students and faculty. The event took place Wednesday in the Bob Graham Center for Public Service at Pugh Hall.
As part of the Graham Center’s Knight 
Fellows-in-Residence Program, Barnett has 
spent the last few weeks on campus inter-
acting with students and faculty. The UF Levin College of Law alumna said the uni-versity is different now than it was when she began her law studies in 1970, when 
only about 4 percent of UF law students were female.
The Pasco County native said she is im-
pressed with how much the university has evolved and expanded since then.
“(UF is) an old institution that constant-
ly seems to be getting a face-lift or even new parts, and that’s pretty impressive to 
look at a campus that’s still thriving and growing,” Barnett said.
She also spoke about her role in the 
Rosewood massacre case, where she rep-resented the victims of a 1923 riot where a white mob destroyed a majority-black town. The case ended in several deaths on both sides.
“It was a huge risk to put aside their 
fears and come forward and to tell their story, and it was life changing,” Barnett said.
Barnett expressed her concern over 
the disappearance of public school civics classes across the nation and the decrease in knowledge of the principles of govern-ment and democracy.
Gladys Walter, a 25-year-old UF alum-
na getting her master’s degree in family, youth and community sciences, said she went to the event because one of her re-
search focuses is on civic engagement.
“I just really liked her overall message 
about community engagement and how 
it’s our responsibility to be engaged in the entire public participation process,” she 
said.THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Christy Pina / Alligator
Bob Graham, former Florida governor and U.S. Senator, and Martha Barnett, former 
president of the American Bar Association, sit down in Pugh Hall on Wednesday night to discuss the importance of civic engagement.
CAMPUSFormer ABA president talks civic engagement, Rosewood
 SHE DISCUSSED THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SECRECY AND PRIVACY.
CAITLIN OSTROFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Columbia University law pro-
fessor sought to answer how priva-
cy and secrecy play a role in abor-
tions while addressing students 
and community members at the UF Levin College of Law.Carol Sanger, the Barbara Aron-
stein Black Professor of Law at Co-lumbia Law School, spoke Wednes-day about the differences between 
abortion privacy and abortion 
secrecy and how they both affect women.
Sanger brought up the U.S. Su-
preme Court case of Roe v. Wade 
and said abortion is still an unset-
tled legal issue.
“One would think that 40 years 
might have settled things, and it 
hasn’t,” she said.The name 
“Jane Roe” was 
used as a pseud-
onym in the 
court case be-
cause it dealt with abortion. Sanger said there are three other 
instances where one can remain anonymous in court: age, homo-sexuality and child abandonment.
But abortion is rarely a complete 
secret, Sanger said.She described privacy as a wom-
an’s choice to talk or stay silent for reasons other than a well-founded fear of harm. 
Secrecy suggests it’s better to 
keep something to oneself because if a woman doesn’t, harm will fol-low.
“Without privacy, one’s choice 
is effectively made by others,” she said.
An abortion can follow a wom-
an and is often used against her 
credibility, Sanger said.“It is no good for women to feel 
empowered by exercising their pri-
vacy rights when it’s secrecy mas-querading as privacy,” she said.
Kimi Swartz, a 25-year-old UF 
student pursuing a joint degree in law and medicine, said the lecture raised important concerns about how abortions are seen in society.
The topic was relevant to 
Swartz’s career aspirations.
“I came because I’m interested 
in providing abortions one day,” 
Swartz said.Columbia Law professor speaks on legal issues of abortion
Sanger
“That’s pretty impressive to look 
at a campus that’s still thriving and 
growing.”
Martha Barnett
former American Bar Assocaition president 4, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Gabriel Mondry, a 19-year-old UF health science sophomore, 
stands on the Plaza of the Americas as part of an empty hol-ster demonstration on Wednesday afternoon. 
CAMPUS
SAVANA MORIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
A pop-up clothing store for the 
homeless is set to make its way to 
Gainesville for the first time this Sunday. 
UF’s frank gathering and the 
Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry have teamed up to combat homelessness by set-ting up a rent-free space dedicated to providing clothing to those in need. Donation boxes will be spread throughout the UF campus this week for students to drop off cloth-ing for the shop. 
The Street Store initiative will be 
lead by Alpha PRoductions, a stu-dent-run public relations firm hired by the frank gathering. The frank gathering is a yearly conference of 
public interest communicators from 
around the world that come togeth-er to discuss social change. 
The Street Store began in Janu-
ary 2014 in South Africa and has since become a global initiative, said Elizabeth Boone, an account execu-tive and UF public relations senior. Boone said she is excited about 
the way the project has come to-gether. About 130 volunteers and a month of work made it possible, she said.
“The homeless community in 
Gainesville is prominent,” Boone 
said. “It’s just a little thing that we 
can do to help.”
Gainesville’s homeless popula-tion has grown steadily, with more than 2,000 citizens living without a home as of January 2012, according to the Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry website.
People are encouraged to drop 
off their donation in the mailroom 
on the second floor of Weimer Hall 
or at any other campus donation boxes.
Clothing drive on campus to support pop-up clothing store
JARROD DYER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students in the UF LGBTQ+ community 
can learn to combat potential discrimina-tion in science, technology, engineering and mathematics careers tonight at 7 p.m. as part of Pride Awareness Month.
UF’s chapter of Out in Science, Technol-
ogy, Engineering, and Mathematics, Inc., will host a panel of professionals for Pride Awareness Month tonight in Little Hall, Room 223, for students to share their expe-riences as being LGBTQ+ in a STEM career. 
oSTEM is a nonprofit society created for 
LGBTQ+ STEM students to network, connect with mentors and collaborate on projects. 
Katelyn Smith, the organization’s presi-
dent and a UF fifth-year digital arts and 
sciences student, said it should dispel fears 
about being LGBTQ+ in the workplace. 
The panel will feature Wolfgang Sig-
mund, a UF professor in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, as well as representatives from the Dow Chemical Company and Accenture, a  technology and outsourcing service. 
Smith joined oSTEM when the chapter 
was founded in Spring 2013. 
“This is a niche that hadn’t been filled be-
fore,” Smith, 23, said.
Smith, who identifies as a pansexual 
woman, made connections through oSTEM that led to an interview with Accenture.
oSTEM also offers a national conference 
every fall for LGBTQ+ STEM students to at-tend panels and workshops to develop skills for future careers, Smith said. 
Rebecca Raymond, oSTEM historian and 
social chair, said she didn’t realize the large presence LGBTQ+ students had in the STEM field. In a career panel, the UF digital arts and science junior found that the Dow Chemical 
Company has a division specifically for LG-
BTQ+ engineering careers.
“It’s a unique situation to be an LGBT 
student and a STEM student,” Raymond, 20, said.LGBTQ+ students on campus fight discrimination in STEM
UF currently opposes guns on campus
on holsters.
The 33-year-old said he has had thousands 
of hours of firearm training. 
He said concealed carry on campus will 
not create a less-safe learning environment, as 
argued by the bill’s opponents. In a dangerous 
situation, it will act as a responsive measure of self defense before police arrive, he said.
“We care about each other and our safety,” 
he said. “We’re here to protect ourselves.” 
Beyond a parking-lot exception, UF op-
poses guns on campus, spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in a statement. UF will look to law enforcement for recommendations on matters 
of public safety. UF faculty members passed a 
resolution to oppose the legislation in February and continue to watch the bill’s progress. 
“The State of Florida University Police 
Chiefs, including UF Police Chief Linda Stump, are united in opposition to any legislation that would allow guns on campus,” Sikes wrote.
Jenna Goldman, the UF College Democrats 
vice president, recently rallied against the bill in Tallahassee. The UF political science and his-tory senior said she would not feel comfortable knowing hot-headed students with access to 
drugs and alcohol were armed on campus. 
She said the organization will rally more on 
campus when the bill gets to the floor. 
“I encourage students to get involved — this 
will really, really affect us,” Goldman, 22, said. 
But for Mondry and other SCC members, 
they’re hoping the Empty Holster Protest will 
prove the bill will not affect students negatively. 
“It’s about educating and reaching out to 
the community,” he said. “We formally invite people against concealed carry to come to the range for knowledge on firearms.”GUN , from page 1
 IT MUST BE ABOVE 2.0. 
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student 
Senate passed multiple bills 
and approved the first part of a club’s overflow request Wednesday night.
Senators kicked the meet-
ing off by amending a bill by Sen. Connor Levine requiring senators to meet certain stan-dards, which included lower-ing the required GPA of sena-tors in the bill from 2.5 to 2.0.
Senators also approved a 
$700 overflow request by the 
Society for Nerds to attend  
MegaCon, a fan convention similar to Comic-Con, in Or-lando next month. The Lead-ership Team will review the request.
Senate President Jeremy 
Pierce passed his gavel to pro-tempore Dalton King to pres-
ent several bills Pierce wrote 
over Spring Break.
Senators approved Pierce’s 
first bill removing a chapter from the Student Body Con-stitution listing the guidelines of running a college-wide stu-dent newspaper.
A bill was tabled that would 
require students, clubs and Student Government branches 
to notify the treasurer if they 
fail to use all the funds allo-cated to them.
Senators also postponed 
the review of the 2015-16 SG budget because the treasurer, Aadil Muhammad, was not present at the meeting.
A bill removing a passage 
prohibiting campaigning in-side apartment complexes failed after senators raised concerns of students being ha-rassed by campaigners.
“My home is where I get 
away from this place,” Sen. Jay Bartels said. “There’s nothing wrong with it being in there, 
and it honestly needs to stay.”
Senators approved two 
more bills, one which would 
help speed up the allocation of funds and the other which removes the word “employee” from the SG Employee Hand-book.SFC senators lower 
GPA requirements 
Santa Fe president, student senators say it was a group effort
She referenced Erica Laboissoniere, a 40-year-old Santa 
Fe alumna whom she met during her visit, as an example of 
community colleges’ ability to affect lives. Laboissoniere was almost a high school dropout who used SFC as a segue to UF.
Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser accepted the award with 
a smile on his face. He thanked Santa Fe’s faculty, staff and stu-dents, saying they were the ones who earned the award.
“To the students at Santa Fe College, this is your award. You did the work,” he said.
Meanwhile at the college, faculty, staff and students shout-
ed and hugged upon hearing the announcement.
Some students ran around campus shouting “We’re No. 1.”“We’re the top college in the country. That’s awesome, 
baby!” Student Body President Austin Browning shouted out-side the administration building.
Student ambassador Zita Segarra walked by, leading a 
group of people touring the college.
“Have you told them the news?” Browning asked Segarra.“I was going to,” she responded. She turned to the group 
and said, “We are now the No. 1 (community) college in the U.S.”
The group replied with “oohs.”At Senate later that night, Vice President of Student Affairs 
Naima Brown congratulated senators for the work they have done to contribute to the college’s success.
“It was definitely a team effort. Every employee and every 
trustee made it possible,” she said, then added, “And every student.”AWARD , from page 1THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the historic Bethel Station building at 104 SE First Ave., which housed The Lunchbox res-
taurant until December.
 IT WILL OPEN DOWNTOWN IN LUNCHBOX’S OLD SPOT.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Artie Guy can’t say why he origi-
nally bought Steamers in 2000.
A regular, Guy would begin with 
an order of spice-infused, loose-meat 
sandwiches. Then he switched to the 
fried rice, and then — after a move or 
two away from Gainesville — came the title: Artie Guy, owner of Steam-ers.
Now, 15 years after purchasing 
the Indonesian-inspired restaurant, selling it and watching it close, he’s bringing it back.
“It’s like trying to bring some-
thing up from the dead,” said Guy, a 
45-year-old Gainesville native.
Steamers’ revival will feature fa-
vorites — coconut curries, spicy fried 
rice and its hamburger-like steamed sandwich, known as “The Steamer.” The quick-stop eatery will open at the former Lunchbox location downtown this spring.
“It’s rare that you find a restaurant 
that gives you such generous portions and uses such bold flavors in their rec-ipes,” said Jacob Ludin, a UF alumnus and soon-to-be medical student.
Ludin, 23, called it an institution.But in 2005, Guy sold Steamers. He 
traded the fluorescent lights for Flori-
da sunshine, lured away to a farm in 
LaCrosse by a girlfriend and a desire 
to grow his own tempeh. 
When he sold the restaurant, he 
started Artie’s Tempeh.
“When are you going to reopen 
Steamers?” is a question he’s heard since Steamers’ closure in 2011.
“Somehow that controlled my des-
tiny to a degree,” Guy said. “I’m very grateful for the responses, but I’m also challenged to make sure I pull this off.”
Guy and his partner James Thur-
ston will continue the tempeh busi-
ness while working at the restaurant.
The Gainesville Community Re-
development Agency helped in the city’s selection process to fill the 
downtown spot.
“We decided to go with Steamers 
because Artie Guy has a tremendous amount of experience,” said Nathalie McCrate, an agency project manager.
The Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
construction will not interfere with the restaurant, which will have a soft 
opening soon, Guy said.Steamers owner to reopen restaurant in Bo Diddley Plaza LOCAL
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
Sebastian Duque smelled something burn-
ing in his dorm Tuesday night but couldn’t 
find the source.
The 19-year-old looked up and down his 
hallway at Buckman Hall. He still saw noth-
ing but smoke, so he ventured outside.
“You could also see some smoke by the 
street lamp,” the UF animal sciences sopho-
more said.
The smoke was from a prescribed burn at 
Lower Suwannee National Wildlife Refuge. A burn was conducted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Commission 1 mile north of Suwanee Old Town in Dixie County, according to a re-port from the Florida Highway Patrol. Almost 1,300 acres were included in the burn.
A 92-acre prescribed burn took place 
Wednesday morning at Paynes Prairie Pre-serve State Park, according to another report from the Florida Highway Patrol.
Leda Kobziar, a UF associate professor of 
fire science and forest conservation, said con-trolled burns are necessary to maintain an eco-system. Fire prevents the spread of diseases and pests that affect trees.
Kobziar said there are some issues with 
controlled burns, including smoke reaching residential areas and roads, which can cause visibility issues. But, she said, a little smoke from a prescribed burn is a lot better than a lot 
from a wildfire.
Kobziar conducted a survey with other col-
leagues to gather opinions about benefits pre-
scribed burns to the ecosystem. She found that the managers agreed that controlled burns were beneficial to growth and preventing larger fires.Controlled burns are also used to decrease 
the intensity of a forest fire, said Scott Roth-berg, a 27-year-old UF doctoral student in de-sign, construction and planning.
“The purpose of this burn was to promote 
the ecological benefits of fire,” he said.
Rothberg was at the site of the burn Tues-
day. He said an important factor was to keep smoke off the road.
Kobziar said another controlled burn is 
scheduled for Friday near the Florida Muse-um of Natural History if weather conditions permit.
Controlled burn smoke wafts onto campus, concerns studentsReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Minority stories 
extend beyond the 
numbers
Wednesday, we ran a double-feature in which two 
of our writers investigated the enrollment trends among two minority communities at UF. Earlier 
stories published elsewhere reported a dramatic decline in black enrollment at the university; however, they were 
misled by incomparable data, caused by changes in UF’s 
demographic self-reporting questionnaire.
What we found showed less intense declines in black 
enrollment than previously reported, though a decline was there. The numbers also showed a steady increase in UF’s Hispanic enrollment — but the more important story here doesn’t have to do with statistics. Numbers can say some things, but their ability to do so is limited. Enrollment numbers reflect the experiences of these communities in 
the U.S. at large and in UF’s culture. The more significant 
issues surround the people these numbers represent, their stories and their experiences.
Until the self-reporting questionnaire changed, black 
enrollment actually climbed independently of affirmative action when then-Gov. Jeb Bush abolished the policy 16 years ago. But the myth of affirmative action still colors people’s perceptions. 
This, along with the persistence of casual racism, works 
to rob the achievements of black students who are where they are entirely due to their own merit and effort. Ste-reotypes of laziness abetted by government handouts are joked about or even seriously believed. 
This creates an idea that black students exist here solely 
to fill some sort of quota, taking up space that should go to more deserving — read: white — applicants. It’s utterly demeaning and, clearly, false. This mindset only adds to the struggle black UF students have to face in their every-
day lives. Not even their own hard-earned achievements 
are believed to belong to them.
Hispanics are affected in different ways. For one, simply 
naming the group is a challenge because some Hispanic/Latino individuals tend to identify with their countries of origin. Grouping them into a not-easily-defined category disregards the individual backgrounds. 
Often the pressure to assimilate leads some to abandon 
their original identities. 
We understand these groupings are necessary for statis-
tical purposes, but categorizing any group of people disre-gards the individual experiences, and that’s important to keep in mind.
The best way to make positive change is to recognize 
that these individual stories make up the collective strug-gles and triumphs of these groups. 
That involves listening, acknowledging and validating 
those struggles and triumphs, regardless of whether they 
fit the preconceived notions developed by cultural stereo-
types. 
57 TOTAL VOTES62% YES
38% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Do you think UF 
has enough resources to ensure campus diversity?Today’s question: Do you think the campus concealed 
weapon bill will pass in the Florida Legislature?What if Vladimir Putin had really died?
Russian President Vladimir Putin hadn’t been seen 
in public between March 5 and March 15, and it made everyone a little worried. In a world con-
stantly connected by social media and more traditional forms of news, world leaders — including our own Presi-dent Barack Obama — have become more available to their subjects, at least in terms of their appearance in the 
public and technological sphere. In this reality, the dis-
appearance of a constantly sought-after public figure be-comes even more concerning.
Naturally, the rumor mill started churning. Was Putin 
in Switzerland to witness the birth of his love child with 
Olympic gymnast Alina Kabaeva? Had he fallen ill to the 
flu virus that is currently taking Moscow? Was he being held within the walls of the Kremlin as part of a coup en-dorsed by the Russian Orthodox Church? Or was he just 
taking a “well-deserved” rest?
While this unusual sabbatical from the public eye end-
ed March 16, as he met with the president of Kyrgyzstan, 
Almazbek Atambayev, it has still raised the question in many people’s minds about what would happen if Putin 
had died.
Dmitry S. Peskov, the president’s press spokesman, 
had tried to lay the rumors to rest with ambiguous words, 
insisting there was nothing wrong. But in the midst of the 
recent and suspicious assassination of opposition leader 
Boris Y. Nemtsov several days before he planned to play a role in a peace rally against Russia’s involvement in the war in Ukraine, it’s no wonder the world, particularly Russia, was anxious to know where Putin was.
The New York Times quoted a reporter who has cov-
ered Putin for years as saying, “If an American president dies, not that much changes, but if a Russian leader dies everything can change — we just don’t know for better or 
worse, but usually for worse.”
Certainly people would care if an American presi-
dent died, and there would be an upset in the so-called free world for some time while 
he was mourned, but it is some-thing that has happened before. 
The vice president would usurp 
him and business would contin-
ue as usual until the next election. But in a federal semi-presidential system with communist precedence, as in 
Russia, the worry is real about what could happen if Putin 
were to die. 
Despite an economy faltering under the effect of West-
ern sanctions over Crimea occupation and the collapse in oil prices, Putin is still largely popular. 
And while many do not agree with his policy or ideol-
ogy in the running of the Russian government or its deal-ings with the rest of the world, many figure his successor would not be the remedy to the impending crisis. Like-
wise, the aftermath of his death would cause unrest due 
to the huge regional influence and nuclear arsenal Russia has.
The inner workings of the Russian government, like 
those of any other political superpower, are a mystery. 
As per statute, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev would 
become the temporary president and organize a presiden-tial election within three months. But even then, a smooth transition would be unlikely.
Many wish for Putin’s demise in the hopes of a new 
start for Russia. But it is unlikely that a liberal, Western-friendly candidate will arise. As pro-opposition analyst Dmitry Oreshkin said, “Things would only get worse.”
It seems that the rise and fall of progressively less ef-
ficient and more nefarious rulers has become a cyclical norm. Elusive change will come eventually with tireless efforts, but this transformation will not come with the mere transition in power of a figurehead. It will be gradu-
al, and it will be grueling.
Sol Angel Canal is a UF English junior. Her column usu-
ally appears on Mondays.
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSol Angel Canal
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    
Say goodbye to ‘Glee’: 
Read Avenue writer Alyssa Holcomb’s overview of the 
six-season show, pg. 10. the Avenue’s guide to summer music festivals: 
Know what to expect, what to bring and who’s headlining, pg. 10. Keep up with the Avenue on Twitter @TheAlligator. MICHAELA BEEDA
Avenue Writer
Despite being away from his band, one UF 
student is ﬁ  nding success in the music busi-
ness.
Eschaton, originally formed in 2007 in 
Providence, Rhode Island, is a technical 
death metal band that combines different ele-
ments of thrash and rhythmic grooves to of-fer a new music experience. Eschaton signed a record deal with Unique Leader Records in 2014 and will be releasing its ﬁ  rst full-length album, titled “Sentinel Apocalypse,” on May 19, along with a music video within the next month.
Joshua Berry, 34, one of the band’s guitar-
ists and the graduate assistant to the dean of UF’s College of Design, Construction and Planning, said after the mix was done for “Sentinel Apocalypse,” he started sending it out to different record labels and found Erik Lindmark, a co-founder of Unique Leader Records and guitarist in death metal band Deeds of Flesh.
“(Lindmark) understands, as a touring 
musician in technical death metal, how dif-ﬁ  cult it is,” Berry said. “So when I’m telling him our story, he gets it.”
Berry said he likes the fact that Lindmark 
has given Eschaton the artistic control many bands don’t get once they join record labels. He said Lindmark wants the band to be in its truest form because that is how he believes music should be produced.
“It was ﬁ  nally a record label that, like, 
from my perspective, empowered us in a way that was important for me as a musi-cian but also offered us the business aspects,” Berry said.
The freedom that Unique Leader Records 
has given Eschaton has allowed each mem-ber of the band to express his unusual musi-cal abilities and deﬁ  ne the album as a whole.“It varies from song to song,” said Jason 
Viteri, the 32-year-old vocalist of Eschaton. “It’s not, like, one solid concept.”
Viteri said he likes the idea of his lyrics 
portraying humanity being lost in the uni-verse, the scary loneliness of existence and the place we all have in this world.
Darren Cesca, the 34-year-old drummer 
for Eschaton, has played in world-renowned bands like Goratory, Arsis, Pillory and Incin-erate. He said he understands every band has a different writing style.
“I think that as we compose, that sort of 
dictates the direction of my drumming, and Josh has, I think, a particular style to him-self,” Cesca said.
Bass player Pat Pattison recently joined 
the band in the winter and has also made a few transitions himself. Pattison, although he has played guitar since he was 9 years old, has changed to bass.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely tricky to do some of Escha-
ton’s bass riffs,” Pattison wrote in an email.
“The fast timing, the changes and stretched 
fretting is a challenge,” he said, “but I love a 
challenge.”
Pattison said he believes working on this 
album has allowed his musical ability to 
reach maximum capacity.
“I really think people are going to be 
blown away with this album,” Pattison said. “Eschaton is one of those bands that you just can’t comprehend what is happening inside your ears when you listen.”
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Eschaton, a band originally formed in Rhode Island, includes UF graduate student Joshua Berry. 
The band signed a record deal in 2014.
UF grad student’s band on signing record deal, music stylesmusic
Today
A Monet Symposium will be held at 6 p.m. at the Samuel P. Harn Mu-
seum of Art for open discussion on American and French artists from 
1870 to 1920. This event is open to the public.
Friday
Enjoy local music and comedic acts as well as puppets, burlesque and 
more from Dolphin Wizard Co. at the 1982 Bar on West University 
Avenue. Doors open at 8:30 p.m. and the show starts at 9:00 p.m. 
Entry is $5.
Saturday
Kick off spring by stopping by the Spring Garden Festival at Kanapaha 
Botanical Gardens from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., where you can visit 175 
booths that offer plants and garden accessories, as well as visit a butterﬂ  y conservatory. Entrance is $8 for adults and $5 for children.
Sunday
Avery Fisher Prize winner and violinist Joshua Bell will perform at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. The show is at 7:30 p.m. and 
ticket prices range from $10 to $65.
Upcoming Events
ASHLYN PINTER
Avenue Writer
Burlesque and blues is on the 
menu at the Market Street Pub and Cabaret on Saturday night.
The Market Street Pub, 112 
SW First Ave., will be holding its second Market Street Revue, “Classy and Sassy Burlesque in the Round,” at 8 p.m. for ages 18 and up. General admission is $10 in advance and $12 at the door. Dressing fancy is encouraged but not required.
“Look forward to having a 
unique and special experience that hopefully leaves you feel-ing entertained, rejuvenated and a little turned on,” Sally B. Dash, producer of the revue, wrote in an email.
Dash said The Market Street Revue is a compelling and sexy burlesque show with ﬁ  ve different performing acts from Gainesville and all over the state. Each performer will be enter-taining the crowd from the round, an area sunken in the middle, with the audience surrounding them entirely.
Some acts will include per-
formers parading into the crowd and interacting with the audience, possibly even removing their glove ﬁ  ngertip by ﬁ  ngertip, Dash said. Catcalling and screaming is encouraged.
“We love to hear your screams 
when we’re on stage,” Dash said.
Formaldehyde Flower, a bur-
lesque performer set to perform in the revue, wrote in an email that she is debuting a new act she guarantees no one has seen before, but she said she wants to keep it a sur-prise.
While audience mem-
bers feast their eyes on the dancers, they can also feast on a dinner catered 
from Fly’n Hawaiian Hotdogs LLC that will be served from 7 to 11 p.m. After the two-part show concludes, the audience will have a chance to mingle with some of their favorite acts from the night during a blues dance with DJ Dee at 10 p.m.
“You can’t have a good idea 
about what it is we do, about the energy, and about the art without attending,” said Formaldehyde Flower. “It’s deﬁ  nitely an experi-ence worth having.”
‘Classy and Sassy’ burlesque show 
Saturday at the Market Street PublocalMORIAH GAYNOR
Avenue Writer
While we’re all used to shows like “House of Cards” 
and “Orange Is the New Black,” it’s about time we pay 
our respects to one of the earlier Netﬂ  ix binge-watch-ing extravaganzas: when the fourth season of “Ar-rested Development” premiered on Netﬂ  ix after being canceled in 2006. While the fourth season took some adjusting to — even Gob might not have watched it on a dare — the cult classic holds a special place in our hearts nonetheless. So, for all those who miss watching possibly the worst family in America and need a way to justify failing exams, here’s a game that’ll leave you saying: “I’ve made a huge mistake.”
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week 
for the newest game.DRINK  when
Racism or incest is casually joked aboutTobias “blues” himselfYou mistake Lindsay for an alienCarl Weathers appearsCut-offs are shownGob says “Come on!” or “Iʼve made a huge mis-
take.”
Gob does an “illusion” (BONUS: ﬁ  nish your drink 
if Gob does the illusion well)
The banana stand is mentioned or shownA person is injured by the cornballer
CHUG YOUR DRINK when
Someone does a chicken danceA Simon & Garfunkel song playsOscar blatantly spaces outA painfully awkward conversation between Mae-
by and George Michael  occurs ARReSTeD
DeVeLOPMeNT THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
MIKAYLA MOTT
Avenue Writer
Swiping right on a new app may 
get you something other than a hook-
up.
MyLeisure, a new app released 
in the U.S., is the Tinder of entertain-
ment recommendations.
The app closely resembles Tin-
der in that swiping right means you 
like a recommendation, and swiping left means it’s not for you. Instead of swiping a person, you’re swiping books, movies, music or game recom-mendations.
Two new swipe directions, up and 
down, give you the ability to add the item to your wish list or share it with friends through Facebook Messen-ger.
By connecting to your Face-
book and seeing what you and your friends have liked, the app is able to recommend different things it thinks might interest you.
If an item comes up that you 
haven’t heard of before, you can tap the image to ﬁ  nd out more.
You can also click “Get it!”, which 
will take you to Amazon, iTunes or another location to purchase the item.
The app says the more you use it, 
the more it gets to know your “Lei-sure ID.” I’ve had the app for a few days and get more recommendations 
for video games and books than I do 
for movies and music, but I’m not into games.
While I didn’t get great recom-
mendations from the app, I found it nearly impossible to stop swiping. So, while you may not ﬁ  nd anything better on this app than you would on Tinder, at least you’ll be entertained 
by swipes.App review: Swipe right 
for more procrastinationKELSI & KERI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
With summer on the way, cold, creamy 
concoctions may become very appealing. So, 
you might decide to go out for an ice cream. You’d think that the more choices of ice cream ﬂ  avors and toppings offered, the happier and 
you would be. Americans love choices, after 
all. But you may be surprised — more is not always better.
Researchers from Columbia Uni-
versity and Stanford University were the ﬁ  rst to provide empirical evidence on whether people were more likely to make a purchase when there were fewer choices. At an upscale market, 
they set up a table displaying either 
six or 24 kinds of jam. With six jams, 40 percent of passers-by stopped at the table. The table with 24, on the other hand, stopped 60 percent of passers-by. Greater selection seemed to increase interest. Yet 30 percent of passers-by at the table with six jams made a purchase, while only 3 percent of passers-by made a purchase from the display with 24 
jams.More choices may lead to dissatisfaction. 
As American psychologist Barry Schwartz 
said in his book “The Paradox of Choice,” that with more choices, there are more choices to regret. People may wonder if another option would have been better. With fewer options, people appear to have lower anxiety levels.
On the other hand, let’s consider Mo-
chi and other frozen yogurt shops that offer limitless customization. Here, you can ﬁ  ll 
large bowls with any combination of 15-plus ﬂ  avors and add 50-plus different kinds of toppings (brown-ies,  mochi, even Froot Loops). Both the size of the bowl and choices of toppings encourage you to create a 
one-of-a-kind dessert. The cost is ac-
cording to the weight of the bowl, so more choices seem better for Mochi.
So, fewer selection or more choices? Per-
haps with jam, the decision has more weight, because you’re committed to having it for 
a while. A bowl of yogurt has fewer conse-
quences, so more choices don’t necessarily provoke anxiety. Try both methods, if you can, see how it goes and ﬁ  nd out which works better for you.Choices: less is usually more
JENNIFER JENKINS
Avenue Writer
A group of fashion-forward UF 
students will be putting on a show Sunday night.
The Gainesville chapter 
of Fashion Forward is hav-
ing its sixth annual fashion 
show at 7 p.m. in the Re-itz Union Grand Ballroom. The show is inspired by the seasons.
“My favorite season is 
our fall season. It shows creativ-ity within our organization, as well as a different dynamic with 
the modeling,” said Kamia Taylor, 
vice president of Gainesville Fash-ion Forward  and a 22-year-old UF senior.
The Gainesville branch start-
ed in 2009 when Jenell Williams came to UF as a freshman. She had previously been a member of the original Fashion Forward Inc. in Jacksonville and brought the or-ganization to UF to ﬁ  ll her creativ-ity void, said Crystal Rodriguez, who is president of the Gainesville 
chapter.
Rodriguez, who plays 
a signiﬁ  cant role in the execution of designs for the fashion show, joined Gainesville Fashion For-ward  in her freshman year as a model. She said she 
learned how to sew clothing from her grandmother as a preteen 
and started to apply her talent to 
Gainesville Fashion Forward at UF. She said she always ﬁ  nds time to help with the show.
“My favorite part is that every-
one is like a family,” Rodriguez said.UF Fashion Forward to 
host 6th annual show styleALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
Six years, 121 episodes, 700-plus musical 
numbers, numerous casting changes and one 
quarterback: Fox’s groundbreaking musical dramedy “Glee” has made statements, stum-bled along the path and ultimately found its 
footing in something that has remained with 
the show from beginning to end — heart.
As a sophomore fully immersed in the 
wacky, weird world of high school perform-ing arts (those of you who also participated surely know what I’m talking about), the story of an underdog show-choir team brav-ing the odds and countless “slushie facials” to become champions was definitely appealing 
and relatable. But beyond the musical num-
bers, which were sometimes spectacular and sometimes hairbrained (anyone remember “Run Joey Run”?), “Glee” became a show that broke ground for some of the biggest changes in television over the better part of a decade.
Case in point: the character of Kurt Hum-
mel, played by Chris Colfer. Kurt (named after the von Trapp character of the same name in 
“The Sound of Music”) was part precocious 
diva, part passionate advocate — and he was arguably one of the first characters to break boundaries in how gay teen relationships were portrayed in modern television. Kurt’s storylines have been crafted so well they have shaped how a lot of shows now include and develop LGBTQ+ characters and plotlines. The evolution and growth of Hummel, from 
his actions against bullying to his many con-
versations with his tough-looking but tender father, Burt (played by Mike O’Malley), was a spark that ignited television. Kurt’s relation-ship with prep-school heartthrob Blaine An-derson (played by Darren Criss) also became a focal point of the show for a legion of fans who embraced the duo as wholeheartedly and passionately as if they were their own friends. 
The year 2009 may not seem that far away, but 
back then, one would be pressed to find young gay relationships being represented in main-stream media, let alone on primetime televi-sion.
Other characters on the show also pushed 
boundaries. The Cheerios cheerleaders San-tana Lopez (played by Naya Rivera) and Brittany S. Pierce (played by Heather Mor-
ris) transformed from background dancers 
to a sassy but sweet couple that defied being outed and degraded by some of their family, classmates and instructors (I mean, it’s Sue Sylvester, but…). The transgender commu-nity was represented by two characters: soul-ful singer Wade “Unique” Adams (played by Alex Newell) and football coach Shannon Beiste (played by Dot-Marie Jones), the latter 
of whom underwent a sex change operation in the show’s final season. The inclusion of these 
characters has shed light on vital topics and al-lowed for a young crowd that was constantly in search of people similar to them to identify with the characters. I’m not saying all of these characters were presented perfectly, but I will argue that the representation of these various 
backgrounds helped solidify the show as one 
of the foregrounds for breakthrough material on television, particularly for a young audi-ence — with a song thrown in for good mea-sure.
The passing of the show’s quarterback, 
Cory Monteith, was a huge changing point. Monteith’s portrayal of the affable but inspi-rational Finn Hudson was a constant presence 
throughout the first four seasons of “Glee.” Some people think the show wasn’t the same 
afterwards, and they would be right. But the show creators (Ryan Murphy, Ian Brennan and Brad Falchuk) have made sure that his presence, both as a character and as a person, was never lost. A plaque of Finn was hung in the choir room and was referenced periodi-
cally throughout the show’s final two seasons. 
Finn Hudson may have been a leader in the Glee club, but Cory Monteith was a figure-head of the show to the cast, crew and fans.
No retrospect of “Glee” would be complete 
without discussing the crux of the show: the music. The statistics and chart statuses of the amount of singles, albums and special tributes are endless, but a few deserve special rec-
ognition: the cast set the record for the most 
Billboard Hot 100 appearances in the chart’s history with 207 entries and sold 7.8 million albums and 44.5 million song downloads, according to Nielsen SoundScan. “Glee” not only broke character development barriers, but music industry barriers — a lot of these tracks were covers of popular songs. From classic rock tunes like the show’s unofficial 
theme song, Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believin’,” 
to the later trend of showcasing lesser-known bands at the time, like Imagine Dragons and A Great Big World, the emphasis on an all-en-compassing soundtrack was one of the most special parts of the show.
For six seasons, “Glee” may have fluctu-
ated in its content and continuity, but it has remained a constant source of entertainment 
for millions of viewers. Personally, it has been 
a source of — dare I say it — glee in its musical comedy-drama hybrid nature. As the show’s two-hour series finale airs Friday on Fox at 8 p.m., I know I won’t be the only one sad to see it go. But while the halls of McKinley High won’t be filled with singing students and bor-derline psychotic cheerleading coaches any-more, the memories of airborne slushies, choir 
room weekly lessons and regional competi-
tion showdowns will live on as one of televi-sion’s most wacky, weird programs.
10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
AP Photo
Chris Colfer, who played Kurt Hummel on “Glee,” arrives at the 32nd Annual 
Paleyfest: “Glee” held at The Dolby Theatre on Friday in Los Angeles.
Goodbye to ‘Glee’ — A retrospective six years in the makingtv series
the Avenue’s Guide to
ELLEN VILLAFUERTE
Avenue Writer
Music festivals have ba-
sically become a staple for 
summertime adventures. Al-
though we still have about 
five weeks until the semester ends, festival veterans know tickets are already selling out, 
and preparation for what’s to 
come starts way in advance. Keep in mind you might need a hotel, it’s going to be really, really hot, and you’ll prob-
ably forget to pack something 
when you put it off right be-fore leaving. Whether you’re traveling far to attend one or 
just sticking to Florida-based 
festivals, this guide will help you know what to expect. Bonnaroo Music and Arts 
Festival
When:  June 11 to 14
Where:  Manchester, T ennessee
Cost:  $324.50 for general ad-
mission, plus applicable fees 
(VIP tickets also available)
Headliners:  Billy Joel, Mum-
ford & Sons, Deadmau5, Kendrick Lamar and more 
What to bring:  Sunscreen, bug 
spray, camping gear, rain gear, perishable snacks, blankets or lawn chairs, water bottle
What to expect:  Whether 
you’re a nature lover or not, you’ll be setting up camp on “the farm” that weekend rather than your usual hotel. Bonnaroo is all about staying green, so you better be, too. Big Guava Festival
When:  May 8 and 9
Where:  T ampa, Florida 
Cost:  From $55 to $350 
Headliners:  The Strokes, Pix-
ies, Pretty Lights, Hozier
What to bring:  Rain gear, 
blankets or lawn chairs, water bottle , soft-side cooler 
What to expect:  Even with 
big-name headliners, you’ll still get a chance to score some autographs if you get there early. There will also be free rides and more than 30 food trucks. Lollapalooza
When:  July 31 to August 2
Where:  Grant Park, Chicago 
Cost:  $110 to $275
Headliners:  Not yet an-
nounced
What  to bring : Blanket, um-
brella, sealed water bottle or empty plastic container, sunscreen
What to expect:  Even though 
the lineup hasn’t been announced, tickets always sell out fast. In the past, there’s also been live art, comedy and even a farm-ers market as an option for food.  Governors Ball Music 
Festival
When:  June 5 to 7
Where:  New York City
Cost:  From $105 to $2,000 
Headliners:  Drake, The 
Black Keys, Deadmau5 and more
What to bring:  Sealed 
water bottle, sunscreen, collapsible chair or blanket
What to expect:  Over the 
course of three days, there’s a lot to check out at Governors Ball when you’re not watching per-formances, from games on the lawn (think giant Jenga) to the Sober Ball (for those who don’t drink alcohol). Shaky Knees Music 
Festival
When:  May 8 to 10
Where:  Atlanta
Cost:  From $99 to $599
Headliners:  The Strokes, 
the Avett Brothers, Wilco and more
What to bring:  Sunscreen, 
empty water bottle (everything else is pretty much prohibited)
What to expect:  Aside from 
the lineup included with your Shaky Knees ticket, you can also purchase separate tickets for the festival’s Late Night Shows that start right before midnight.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
TWO ROOMS WITH BATH AND WALK-IN CLOSET FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. UNIT HAS FURNISHED KITCHEN AND A WASHER/DRYER.$400.00 PER MONTH RENT INCLUDES HIGH SPEED INTERNET AND USE OF COMMON AREA IN THE UNIT. REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT $400.00.Please contact Ram at 352-514-7250.    3-19-15-3-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   3-20-15-17-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1600 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from campus. Nice house. Hardwood floors, cen-tral heat/air, W/D provided. 1105 NW 10th Ave. $1550/mo, call/text 352-339-2342. pic-tures at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-24-15-5-2
CUSTOM 2BDRM 1BA AVAIL NOW Within 1 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest cntrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $685/mo. Call 727-423-9463    3-20-15-2-2
Charming 2 bed 1 bath housewith large fenced yard, screen porch,washer/dryer hookup,dog with deposit,1123 nw 31st avenue, lease,$800475 1586 or/213 1963 leave message   3-25-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened 
porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $375/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    3-25-15-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
 THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
The Towering Harvard HandSign Language Assistant
352-375-8606                         3-23-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Mackenzie Caquatto is 
one former UF gymnast who is transitioning to life after gymnastics. Read the story on page 16.UF golfer honored by SEC
The Southeastern Conference named Florida’s Alejandro Tosti the SEC Freshman Golfer of the Week on Wednesday. Tosti, who enrolled at UF in January, recorded 11 birdies at the Seminole Intercollegiate last weekend.Poll Question
Who do you think will be UF’s starting quarterback next season? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore quarterback Treon Harris prepares to pass the ball during practice on Monday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Harris started the final six games of the 2014 season and is now competing with redshirt freshman Will Grier to be the starting quarterback next season.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Jim McElwain has a tall task ahead of him.
His first year as Florida’s head football 
coach seems to have more questions than an-
swers.
And one of the more prominent topics of 
discussion is Florida’s starting quarterback.
While McElwain said he does not have a 
set timeline for when he plans to announce 
a starting quarterback, he knows what he is looking for in his starting signal caller.
“You’ve got to be the field general out there 
a little bit, get everybody lined up,” McElwain 
said. “And with the six or seven different pac-
es that we play, they’ve got to take control of that.”
       
McElwain is no stranger to grooming suc-
cessful quarterbacks at the collegiate level.
As the offensive coordinator at Alabama 
from 2008-2011, McElwain coached a duo of quarterbacks in AJ McCarron and Greg McEl-roy, the Crimson Tide’s top-two quarterbacks for career completion percentage who also 
rank in the top-five for career passing yards, 
touchdown passes and winning percentage.
As head coach at Colorado State from 2012-
2014, the now-53-year-old McElwain had the opportunity to coach up signal caller Garrett 
Grayson, who is rated as the No. 5 quarterback 
in the 2015 NFL Draft class by ESPN’s Mel Kiper Jr. and is projected to be a mid-round UF quarterback battle heating up as Spring practice gets underway
SEE QUARTERBACKS, PAGE 15
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
The Jim McElwain era is two 
spring practices in, and McElwain 
already sees areas in need of im-provement.
McElwain cranked it up a notch 
on the second day of practice after taking things slow with the offense on Monday.
With the quarterbacks being un-
der center primarily during the first practice, McElwain introduced the pistol and the shotgun offense on Wednesday.
Things weren’t perfect on either 
side of the ball as the team took a step back from the first practice.
“I thought it was a little sloppy actually (Wednesday),” McElwain said. “We’ve got a lot of details that we need to take care of, and yet that’s to be expected when you get new install like this in.”
Brandon Powell adjusting to 
new position: Former running back Brandon Powell is making the move to wide receiver during the Spring.
As a freshman, Powell finished 
last season with 70 yards on 16 car-ries with one rushing touchdown while also catching 15 passes for 147 yards and a touchdown.
Powell was moved around in 
the backfield and saw time in the slot in former offensive coordinator Notebook: Florida sloppy  
on Day 2 of practice
SEE NOTEBOOK, PAGE 15SWIMMING
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
The No. 4 Gators women’s swimming & diving 
team is looking to cap off its season on a high note 
as 11 swimmers and one diver compete today for the 2015 NCAA Championships at the Greens-boro Aquatic in Greensboro, North Carolina. 
The three-day meet begins at 11 a.m. with pre-
liminary races followed by finals each day at 7 p.m.
With 12 Gators competing overall, Florida is tied 
for the sixth most athletes competing in the event. 
UF’s swimmers have had two weeks of rest 
since the team competed at the Last Chance Meet 
in Gainesville from Feb. 27 to March 1, and coach 
Gregg Troy hopes the time off has given the Gators 
the energy necessary to contend with a top-heavy field of teams. “There (are) a couple of real fantastic teams com-
peting this week in Georgia and (California), but there are also a lot of schools that are going who are in very similar situations to us,” Troy said. “We are all looking forward to getting started on Thursday.”
Despite the team’s lack of depth — the Gators 
have no seniors swimming in the event — Troy will look to the experience of Florida’s six returning swimmers who competed in last year’s champion-ships.
“Obviously we’d like to have a few more indi-
viduals going and competing this week, but we’ve been real slim all season depth wise,” Troy said. “So our girls that we will have competing will have to 
step up and race tough, as it will be a wide open 
meet.”
Last season, Florida finished sixth with a total 
score of 239 points. In the process, the Gators se-cured 15 All-American swims and broke six school records.
The Gators have won three NCAA Champion-
ships, with the most recent coming in 2010. 
While strong individual performances are ex-
pected, Troy said the key to the team’s success lies in how well the Gators swim in the relays. Women’s team starts NCAAs today
“Our girls that we will have competing 
will have to step up and race tough, as it 
will be a wide open meet.”
Gregg Troy
UF swimming and diving coachdraft pick.
Now in his first year as head coach at UF, McElwain has 
two quarterbacks vying for the starting spot in his offense: Tre-
on Harris and Will Grier.
      
Coming in as a freshman last season, Treon Harris didn’t 
have high expectations about playing time.
With Jeff Driskel already cemented into the starting lineup, 
Harris knew his chances of seeing the field would be slim.
“I didn’t think I’d play,” Harris said.
That changed four games into the season during Florida’s 
road game against Tennessee.
The Gators trailed the Volunteers 9-0 as the third quarter 
started to wind down and were on the verge of being shut out for the first time since losing 16-0 to Auburn on Oct. 29, 1988.
Driskel had already thrown three interceptions and had 
gained just 59 yards through the air on a meager 11-for-23 pass-
ing.
Then-Florida head coach Will Muschamp needed a change.
So he put Harris into the game.“When coach Muschamp (called) me and was like ‘Get 
ready,’ everything just seemed unreal to me,” Harris said.
Playing in his first game since scoring two touchdowns on 
as many passes in garbage time during Florida’s 65-0 rout of Eastern Michigan in its season opener, Harris responded by leading Florida on back-to-back scoring drives to take the 10-9 
victory in Neyland Stadium.
“I just went out there and played my role,” Harris said. “I 
(knew) what I had to do and took advantage of the game.”
From there, it looked as if Harris had the starting job all but 
locked up.
But less than 48 hours after rallying Florida to its largest 
come-from-behind victory since 2003, Harris was suspended 
after being accused of sexual battery. He was reinstated to the team after the accuser withdrew her complaint a few days later.
“It was a tough situation for everybody,” Harris said. “I just 
stayed focus, stayed poised and let God handle everything. Me and my coaches, they trusted me, I trusted in them and I just kept my head up and kept everything going right.”
Harris took over the full-time starting job three games later 
against Georgia and started six games overall. He ended the year with 1,019 passing yards and nine touchdowns to just four interceptions, earning a spot on the Southeastern Conference All-Freshman team in the process.
While Harris said he feels the starting experience gives him 
an advantage heading into camp, he knows it does not guaran-tee him the spot at the top of the depth chart.
“Everyone has to compete for a spot,” Harris said. “Me and Will, (we’re) just going out there every day, just getting better, getting each other better.”
      
Will Grier walked onto Florida’s campus in Spring 2014 
with a list of accolades longer than most out of high school.
In his four-year career at Davidson Day High School in 
North Carolina, Grier threw a state-record 195 touchdown passes to go along with 14,565 passing yards. He totaled a na-tion-leading 77 touchdowns in his senior year alone en route to First-Team All-American recognition from both MaxPreps 
and 247 Sports.
He earned national player of the year awards from both 
Parade and Maxwell, and StudentSports.com named him Mr. Football USA, an award given to the best high school football 
player in the country.
But in his first year with the Gators, Grier watched all the 
action from the bench as he sat out his first collegiate season with a redshirt.
And while the 6-foot-2 quarterback knew from the start 
that he would not see any game action during his first year, he 
never stopped preparing.
“It was planned when I first got here,” Grier said. “From 
then on, it was kind of like, ‘Be ready. Just be ready.’ We never 
really knew. So I always had to be ready. I was in every walk-
through and every script. I had to know what to do just in case 
I went in.”
Grier used his first year to bulk up and recover.He gained about 20 pounds from the time he entered Spring 
camp to the start of the regular season and made it a goal to 
maintain the weight while also recovering from a back injury 
that sidelined him from practice for part of the season.
Now back at 100-percent health, Grier is ready to make 
strides and fight to make it back on the field.
“At this point, it’s still really early in the spring,” Grier said. 
“We’re still going through a lot of growing pains and working with a lot of guys.”
But Grier knows at some point, a decision will be made.“This team needs leadership,” Grier said. “This team needs 
a voice, needs identity.”
      
The Gators still have 13 more practices this Spring before 
they conclude with the annual Orange & Blue Debut on April 11.
They don’t practice with full pads for the first time until Fri-
day.
A lot can change from now until then.McElwain might not have a quarterback decided by then.
But right now, he likes what he is seeing.
“I’ve really been happy with how they’ve grasped what 
we’re asking them to do,” McElwain said. “There’s a lot of things that obviously going along with playing the position. … They’re grasping what we’re trying to get accomplished. I 
think it’s been pretty good.”
And regardless of who ends up on top, the two quarter-
backs are taking the competition in stride.
“We’re all teaching each other,” Harris said. “Some things 
he might not know, I might not know. He’ll tell me, I’ll tell him. 
We’re all in the room for each other.”
Added Grier: “We kind of came in this thing last year and 
together, we were the young guys. We were the ones that were new to the college thing and everything else. We’re really close 
friends actually. … Being able to work with him, help each 
other get better has been really cool.”
Kurt Roper’s scheme, but McElwain is trying 
to keep him at wide receiver.
“In our offense, he’s a guy that’s obviously 
got to touch the ball, but he’s probably more comfortable at running back, but we’re put-ting him at full-time receiver,” McElwain said.
“I think he really looks comfortable out 
there. That’s something good to see.”
Special Teams: With Andre Debose finish-
ing his six-year career, a void has been left in the return game. Debose completed his career 
with five special teams touchdowns, with a 
school-record four of them coming on kickoff returns and one on a punt return. Debose fin-ished last season second in the Southeastern Conference and sixth nationally with a 14.04 punt return average.
McElwain said Powell, Demarcus Robin-
son, Vernon Hargreaves and J.C. Jackson have been involved with the special teams.    
Robinson had three punt returns last year 
for a meager total of two yards, while Harg-reaves saw time fielding punts inside Florida’s territory.
“They’ve been handling the kicks. We haven’t determined any really starters on any of the special teams,” McElwain said. “We worked punt heavy the first two practices. We’ll get kickoff return in this third practice.”
Tight End: With the rising popularity of 
the spread offense throughout all levels of football, having a tight end who can play with his hand on the ground is key in a pro-style offense.
“Honestly, it’s kind of a lost art,” McElwain 
said. “It’s a position that everybody is looking for. It’s a position the next level struggles find-ing…but with that being said these guys have adapted and we’ll be in lot of 12 personnel.”
McElwain is also searching for something 
Florida hasn’t had in a while: a playmaking 
tight end. 
With Jake McGee not competing in team 
drills as he continues to rehab from surgery 
on his broken tibia and fibula, UF will have to find someone who can step up.  
Other than McGee, no other tight end on 
the roster has caught a pass. Bair Diamond and DeAndre Goolsby saw game action last season, but didn’t record any stats. The last time McGee caught a pass was  when he was still at the University of Virginia two seasons 
ago. THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Demarcus Robinson runs a route during practice on Monday at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium.
McElwain looking for improvements at wide receiver, return gameThe starter might not be named by the end of Spring practice
QUARTERBACKS , from page 14
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Will Grier prepares to throw a pass during practice on 
Monday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Grier is competing with Treon Harris to be UF’s starting quarterback.
NOTEBOOK , from page 1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 2015
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Mackenzie Caquatto competes on the balance beam during Florida’s 
198.125-197.625 win against LSU on Feb. 21, 2014. 
GYMNASTICS
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Gymnastics isn’t like most sports.When a college basketball player’s career comes 
to an end, he or she can still go play pickup games at the local park.
When a college softball pitcher’s playing days 
are over, there are plenty of casual amateur leagues in which to play. Even tossing the ball around in the backyard is still an option.
But when a college gymnast competes for the 
final time, it truly is the final time. 
There aren’t gymnastics leagues to join or places 
to compete for fun in local communities. 
It’s over.For athletes who have spent almost their entire 
lives within the sport, the change to life after gym-nastics isn’t easy.
“I was so used to going to the gym every day 
for the past 10 years — it was just a difficult tran-sition in my life,” said Mackenzie Caquatto, who competed for UF from 2011-2014.
Since competing in a Gator leotard for the final 
time in last season’s NCAA individual event finals — she finished fourth on bars and 12th on beam — Caquatto has been pursuing a career in teaching.
Even though she loves that aspect of her life, 
she has still tried to find ways to be involved with gymnastics.
During the fall, she acted as a student coach 
at Florida, and she currently serves as the MC at home meets. 
She also teaches private tumbling lessons. But all of it wasn’t quite the same.“I didn’t see the girls every day, I didn’t get to 
go work out, and it was a big change for me,” Ca-quatto said. “I would go into the gym sometimes and mess around because I missed it so much.”
Marissa King competed for Florida from 2010-
2013 and experienced similar feelings after her col-legiate career ended.
She didn’t want to give up the sport, so she ap-
plied for Cirque du Soleil while serving as an as-sistant coach at Florida. 
But after not hearing back from Cirque du So-
leil, she began to face the realization that she would need to do something else with her life.
“At the end of that year when I didn’t hear from 
them, it was kind of a wake up call,” King said. “I kind of said to myself ‘You know what? I need to stop doing gym now. I need to start working to-wards a career.’ I didn’t want to. I felt like I still had more to give, but at that period of time I had no choice.”
But luckily for King, she was given an opportu-
nity to perform with the group during the fall and is now traveling across the world using the skills she learned while at Florida - along with some 
news ones.
She is one of the rare exceptions, however. 
This year’s senior class at Florida will be faced 
with the same transition in the coming months, and both King and Caquatto know how tough it can be. 
But for now, their message to the current Gators is 
to make the most of every second they have left.
“I would tell them to enjoy every moment,” Ca-
quatto said. “Soak up every single time they’re out 
there competing. Leave everything on the floor.” Former Gators transition to life after collegiate gymnastics
Highlight moments from 
Mackenzie Caquatto’s and 
Marissa King’s UF gymnastics 
careers
King: One day after Florida finished fourth 
at the 2011 NCAA Championships, King earned the NCAA Vault title after scoring a 9.875 at the NCAA Individual Event finals. She was the first UF athlete to win an indi-vidual event title for UF since 1998. 
Caquatto: Mackenzie Caquatto earned a 
perfect 10.0 on the uneven parallel bars 
during Florida’s dual meet against Missouri on Jan. 18, 2013. She became just the fifth Gator to earn a perfect mark on the appara-tus and the first since 2009.