We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 129 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
Accent Speaker’s Bureau planned on 
welcoming former ﬁ  rst lady Rosalynn 
Carter to the Phillips Center for Performing Arts on Tuesday night, but she was sick and stayed in Plains, Georgia.
Her husband, former U.S. President 
Jimmy Carter, stepped in to address a 
packed audience of UF students and 
Gainesville locals.“I know all of you are disappointed that 
my wife is not here,” Carter said.
On his wife’s behalf, Carter spoke pri-
marily about how prevalent mental ill-ness is and why its stigma should be rec-ognized. His ideas mirrored those in his wife’s book, “Within Our Reach: Ending 
the Mental Health Crisis.”
The event began at 8 p.m., and just  
minutes before 7:45 p.m., tickets sold out.
Carter has been out of ofﬁ  ce for 34 
UF returns home for midweek 
game against North Florida
Eight of Florida’s next nine games are in 
Gainesville, pg 13.
UF Rowdy Reptiles make Final Four of 
fandom competition
The winner will be announced at NCAA championship, pg 9.
UF Law student ﬁ  nalist in Diversity Scholars
He won $10K for pioneering diversity in law, pg 5.Alligator Staff
Now football coach Kent Fuchs teaches the revamped plays to the Gators. “T ake the hurry-up offense, ” he said during the session. “Why is everyone in such a hurry?”Alligator Staff
President Jim McElwain reflects on changes he wants to make to on-campus parking.
FUCHS TAKES FIELD, MCELWAIN TAKES PAYCUT
The Alligator is looking for 
a production manager
Check for a job description on our Twitter 
and Facebook page. Email production@alligator.org  for details.
By Alligator Staff
In a highly unorthodox move reminiscent 
of the Lindsay Lohan smash movie “Freaky 
Friday,” UF President Kent Fuchs and Gators head football Coach Jim McElwain are trading jobs — permanently, the Alligator learned.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, sourc-
es in the UF administration close to the deci-sion say the move is the result of Fuchs exer-cising a little-known clause in his employment contract. The clause, apparently inserted by Cornell’s legal team, states that Fuchs retains the right to swap jobs with anyone else at the university he chooses for as long as he wants. 
Fuchs said he opted to exercise the option 
after learning he would not have a reserved parking spot behind Tigert Hall.
“Coach McElwain has a 
wonderful space right inside 
the stadium,” he said. “It’s 
mine now. You want to talk about preeminence? That’s preeminence. Not only that, it cuts at least 90 seconds off my morning commute.” 
“Besides,” Fuchs added, “being president 
is nice and all, but frankly it’s a lot more dull than I thought it would be. I’ve been in higher education for a long time, plus I’m an engi-neer. I could use a little excitement in my life.”
Though he admits his expe-
rience with athletics is “some-what limited, although I did play middle-school basketball 
when I was growing up in 
Alaska,” Fuchs said he’s been giving a new game plan plenty 
of thought and is eager to roll out ideas he be-lieves will revolutionize the game.
For instance, he said, one bedrock of the 
research world would translate well onto the gridiron: the peer review process.
“Here’s my idea,” he said. “I’d like to sub-
mit our playbook to the coaches of the teams we’ll be playing this Fall. If they think our plays will work, then we’re in good shape. Isn’t that brilliant?”
Along those same lines, Fuchs said he’s hit 
on a way to overhaul the Gators offense.
“Take the hurry-up offense. Why is ev-
eryone in such a hurry?” he said. “I propose something I call the shared-governance of-fense. Before each play, the line discusses the merits of each possible play they could 
SEE FUCHS,  PAGE 3
SEE CARTER,  PAGE 4Jimmy Carter subs for wife, 
speaks about mental health 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Former U.S. President Jimmy 
Carter speaks at Tuesday’s Ac-cent Speaker’s Bureau event at the Phillips Center for the Per-forming Arts in place of his wife Rosalynn, who could not attend because she was ill. Carter dis-cussed mental health issues with Dr. Nancy Hardt, answered Twit-ter questions and read lines from his wife’s mental health speech. “She dreams of a day when stig-ma is gone, ” he said.CAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 129
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit 
submissions
Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center is seek-ing art submissions for the 2015 
Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit 
held April 24 to 30 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris Books in Gainesville. Survivors are encouraged to submit original artwork of all forms, including performance pieces. For more in-formation, call 352-264-6763.
Alpha Kappa Psi financial work-
shopIt's never too early to start plan-ning for a financially successful future. Alpha Kappa Psi is proud to present Todd Romer, Founder and CEO of Young Money, who will be speaking about "5 Simple Steps to Create Financial Success 
Now." The event will be today at 
5:45 p.m. in the MSB Auditorium in the Communicore building and is open to all UF students.Take Back the Night
Recognize National Sexual Assault Awareness Month by at-tending the annual Take Back the Night March and Rally to End 
Sexual Violence. Visit tabling or-
ganizations to learn more about how they prevent and respond to sexual violence, make a poster of support to carry on the two-mile march around campus, enjoy soulful musical performances, take in the wisdom of its two key-note survivor-speakers and share 
your own experience during open 
mic if you are a survivor or sup-port survivors. It will be held to-day from 6 to 9 p.m. on Norman Field.
Authors@UF: P.K. Ramachandran Nair
P.K. Ramachandran Nair, 
distinguished professor, 
School of Forest Resources and Conservation, IFAS, will talk about a book he edited, “Agroforestry – The Future of Global Land Use,” on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in the Marston Science Library Conference Room 136. Free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
Cafe Cultural — Chips and Salsa 
Night
Join the Institute of Hispanic-
Latino Cultures, “La Casita,” for its second Café Cultural of the semester. They will be host-ing a Chips and Salsa Night on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. There will be live music by Los Panas 352. Come join them for an eve-ning of music, dancing and good 
vibes.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Alligator Staff
Football coach Kent Fuchs and UF President Jim McElwain pose in their new environments. 
They switched jobs thanks to a loophole in Fuchs’ contract.
run. Then they put it up for a vote. Sure, 
each game might take a little longer, but we’ll be in a much more collegial place in the long run.”
At least one faculty member who 
asked not be named expressed concern over Fuchs’ new role.
“What am I going to have to do now 
to get tenure and promotion?” she said. “Sell boiled peanuts outside the stadi-um?”
McElwain was immediately on board 
with the idea and wasted no time exer-cising his new authority. His ﬁ  rst proj-
ect: commencement, which will be held 
in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium this spring.
“I’m thinking we skip the stage for 
the graduates to walk across,” he said. “Now picture this: Instead, we have them run out of the tunnel while the band plays the ﬁ  ght song. Of course, they might trip on those gowns they wear — I need to work on that. Maybe 
we put them all in uniforms. Then, just 
to make things interesting, we bring in a T-shirt cannon and ﬁ  re rolled-up diplo-mas out into the crowd.”
Also on his agenda: a solution for UF’s perennial parking woes. 
“Why make people buy parking per-
mits? I say we handle it just like we do tailgating. Let people park wherever they want. Everything is fair game — sidewalks, lawns, Plaza of the Ameri-
cas. Heck, the pickups can even park on 
the steps of Tigert Hall. Better get here early, though; the best spots go fast.”
Motivating faculty to accomplish 
even greater things is yet another item McElwain plans to address.
“For the ﬁ  rst professor who brings 
home a Nobel Prize, I will personally give them a Gatorade bath,” he said. 
“Shoot, who wouldn’t want that? Who 
cares about a trip to Stockholm? All right, faculty, now get out there and win one!”
The switch-up has drawn mixed re-
views among students.
“Um, who thought that was a good 
idea?” said Ugada Bejoshin, a 26-year-old graduate student.
But Ima Kiddin, a 20-year-old junior 
from Miami, said she’s excited.
“Awesome!” she said. “Can Coach 
Fuchs get me some good seats?”
Editor’s Note: April FoolsFUCHS,  from pg 1Campus parking ‘fair game’4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
UF’s own Jeremy Foley will be 
having a one-on-one chat with stu-
dents.
The athletic director will be pre-
senting a keynote speech, followed 
by a Q&A session, at 6 p.m. April 
7 in the Evans Champions Club in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.Foley will share his personal 
story during the keynote speech. He is not being paid for the event, which is co-hosted by the Accent Speaker’s Bureau and the Universi-ty Athletic Association, said Accent chairman Corey Flayman.
Foley first began working for 
the athletics department in 1976 as an intern. He climbed his way up and was hired as athletic director in 1992, according to the univer-sity.
Many students would be excit-
ed to interact with Foley because of their passion for Gator sports, Flay-man said.
Doors will open at 
5 p.m. While tickets aren’t required, the event will only be open to students and seating is on a first-come, first-served basis.The event will also serve as 
a way for students to voice their opinions on the state of Gator ath-
letics.
“The UAA is also 
really excited about it because they were 
looking for an event 
where they would be 
able to get feedback from students about the athletic department, so it seemed like a perfect partnership,” Flayman said.
Brittany Magdovitz, a 20-year-
old UF food science and human nutrition junior, said she plans to go to the event because of Foley’s work over the years.
“I grew up loving sports and be-
ing a Gator, going to every football game there’s ever been, and other sports,” Magdovitz said, “so I want to go see one of the greater athletic directors.”
UF athletic director to speak to students on Gator athletics
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
From left, T essa Arthur, Eric Brown, Tyler Drescher, Chance Fortson, Damian Gonzalez, Scott Strauss 
and LB Hannahs participate in Women’s History Month’s Masculine Mystique panel. They discussed how concepts of masculinity have influenced their lives and gender expressions.
CAMPUS
CAMPUS
By Nicole Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tessa Arthur is a butch lesbian. 
She says so herself, and so does the 
backward baseball cap she wears with the words “bad butch” printed on it.
Tuesday night, she told a crowd 
of about 50 in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom that she finds empower-ment in her masculine identity.
Arthur, a 20-year-old marketing 
sophomore, is one of six UF students who discussed societal definitions of gender and their experiences at the fifth annual Masculine Mystique, a 
panel sponsored by Women’s His-
tory Month and, for the first time, the UF Interfraternity Council.
The others were psychology 
sophomore Chance Fortson, journal-ism and political science junior Da-mian Gonzalez, finance sophomore Tyler Drescher, finance and math-ematics junior Scott Strauss and po-
litical science senior Eric Brown.
LB Hannahs, director of LGBT 
Affairs at UF, moderated the discus-
sion. 
Fortson, who identifies as trans 
male, said he appreciates that strength and determination are asso-ciated with masculinity, but mascu-line people should not be pressured to hide their emotions.
“Masculinity and my gender 
identity have a very strange relation-ship,” he said. “I also feel like trans males have even more pressure to be masculine.”
Hannahs, who identifies as a 
genderqueer trans person and uses the pronoun they, realized during the sexual assault crisis last Fall that because they pass as a white man, 
they have privileges and protection 
from risks women face. This isn’t a fair situation, Hannahs said.  
Drescher, one of the panelists 
and president of the Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity, said he likes the respect and helpfulness that are sometimes associated with masculinity.
“I like the gentleman image,” he 
said. 
Drescher also said he sometimes 
feels uncomfortable wearing his Greek letters because people have assumptions about fraternal broth-ers expressing their masculinity in homophobic and misogynistic ways.
Kia Rahmanian, IFC vice presi-
dent of operations, said the coun-
cil has been working to encourage 
more diversity and was happy to co-sponsor the event with Women’s History Month.Student panel discusses masculinity, personhood Tuesday
years. Despite not having the money or in-fluence that comes along with a presiden-tial title, Carter said he and his wife still travel around the world to educate foreign diplomats about mental health.
When they visit other countries, Carter 
said his wife always wants to start a conver-sation about improving mental health care.
“The main thing she wants to talk about 
is mental health, and she does it,” he said.
Marissa Hartman, a UF family, youth 
and community sciences senior, said she 
was impressed by Carter’s articulate pre-
sentation. She said his speech and follow-ing mediated discussion with Dr. Nancy Hardt, the director for UF Health Disparities and Service Learning Projects, compelled her to research more about The Carter Cen-ter when she got home.
Hartman said she found Carter’s com-
ments about Rosalynn endearing.
“You can tell he really cares about his 
wife,” the 23-year-old said.
Hartman, who identifies as a Republi-
can, said her conservative friends berated her about going to Carter’s presentation.
Hartman told them she didn’t want to 
miss seeing a former president, regard-less of his political affiliation. She said she ended up agreeing with what he said about mental illness.
“It affects everyone,” she said.But Lizzie Lunior, a UF psychology and 
women’s studies senior, said she was dis-appointed Carter “glossed over how diffi-cult it is to deal with mental illness.”
Lunior said she thought Carter rein-
forced the idea that mental illness is genetic.
“It also has a great deal to do with our 
environment and the power systems within our society,” the 22-year-old said.
When Carter spoke, he referred back to 
Rosalynn’s prewritten speech.
“These illnesses do not discriminate,” he 
read, speaking about his own family mem-bers who have overcome their illnesses by seeking treatment.
Kathy Cornette, 52, said Carter was the 
first president she voted for.
“I loved everything he represented, and 
he’s still my favorite president,” said Cor-nette, who lives in Waldo.
While Lunior said she didn’t support 
the way Carter explained mental illness, she did like that he offered solutions, such as valuing mental health in the same way Americans do physical well-being.
“Everybody deserves empathy and a 
community to support them,” she said.CARTER,  from pg 1Audience had mixed reviews
By Mary Brooke Stubbs
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF football program has canceled the 
student ticket lottery.
Starting April 13, students who had lottery 
tickets from the 2014-15 season can buy 2015-16 season tickets for $105 online. The tickets in-
clude all seven home games and are first come, 
first served.
“We hope it will create more excitement 
and have more students show up than the last couple years,” said Dan Apple, assistant director for football at the University Athletic Association department of communications. “The lottery, in the past, was for when it was in higher demand. And now, it is not.”
He said the athletic association decided this 
would be in the best interest of UF students based on student feedback.
“The perception is that sales are down. We 
sold out every game last year in the student sec-tion,” he said. Ben Hill Griffin Stadium can seat 19,500 students, Apple said.
According to Alligator archives, UF football 
lottery tickets did sell out, but only after the stu-
dent lottery deadline was extended.And last year was not the first year the dead-
line was extended.
In 2010, the athletic association extended the 
lotto ticket deadline for the first time since it be-gan in 2004 and has extended the deadline every 
year since. All tickets were eventually sold, but with a shift in ticket sales and student demands, the association decided to revert back to the old season ticket system, wrote Alicia Longworth, the assistant athletic director, in an email.
Eden Estevez, a 19 year-old UF biology soph-
omore said she doesn’t like the change.
“I think it is better if it is a lottery because 
everybody would have an opportunity to win,” she said.
On July 27, incoming freshmen, transfer 
students and current students who did not have season tickets in 2014 will have the chance to buy tickets.Season tickets reinstated after 
UF cancels football lottery
“The lottery, in the past, was for when 
it was in higher demand. And now, it is 
not.”
Dan Apple
assistant director for football,
UAA department of communicationsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Lacy Rubloff
Alligator Contributing Writer
A law student became the first 
UF student nominated for a scholar-
ship for his work promoting diversity within the UF law community.
Anthony Kakoyannis, a 23-year-
old second-year, was one of six final-ists to receive $10,000 in the Latham & Watkins Diversity Scholars Pro-gram. There were about 300 appli-cants from more than 90 schools.Over the past 10 years, Latham & Watkins has awarded almost $500,000 to recipients.
Nadia Sager, the chairwoman of 
Latham & Watkins’ diversity leader-ship committee, said the scholarship was created to support the promo-tion of diversity within the field.
“The world is rapidly changing,” 
she said. “The business world needs to be able to reach diverse clients.”
Winners showed strong academ-
ics, compelling life experiences and 
outstanding character, Sager said. 
She said Kakoyannis stood out among the candidates for his abil-ity to embrace adventure and turn it into success.Kakoyannis is the president of 
OUTlaw, the UF Levin College of Law’s gay-straight alliance group, where he has pioneered law oppor-tunities for the UF LGBTQ+ com-munity.
“I let other people be the activist 
and use my own knowledge to help others,” Kakoyannis said. “I spend my time trying to get our members jobs and give them an advantage to get these opportunities.”
Kakoyannis said the nomination 
is an honor for him and the univer-sity, as other nominees were from Ivy League law schools.
Kakoyannis received his under-
graduate degree in philosophy at American University and is currently ranked third in his UF Law class. He plans to work at a law firm in Wash-ington, D.C., this summer, and he said he hopes to eventually work for the federal government.
“My philosophy is there is a lot 
of focus on changing the law,” he said. “I think it’s more important to be in this field and serve as a posi-tive example. I think that it’s a great way to change people’s outlooks and attitudes.”UF law student finalist 
in Diversity ScholarsBy Justin Ross
Alligator Contributing Writer
A county health report ranked Alachua 
County No. 1 for clinical care.
The sixth annual County Health Rank-
ings & Roadmaps report — a collaboration 
between the Robert Wood Johnson Foun-
dation and the University of Wisconsin 
Population Health Institute — ranks coun-
ties based off of health factors and health 
outcomes.
Under health factors, Alachua County 
ranked top in the state in the clinical care 
category, which includes the percentage of uninsured people and the dentist-to-patient ratio.
In Florida, Alachua County received an 
overall ranking of 18 out of 67 counties. 
Roger Dolz, program admin-istrator for the Florida Depart-
ment of Health in Alachua 
County, said it’s important  for those in the county to take pride 
in being at the top of the clinical 
care category.
“This is not just a county health depart-
ment ranking,” he said. “This is a commu-nity ranking.”
Tony Hernandez, office manager for 
Gainesville Medical Centers, said there are few areas where the student population and 
the residential Gainesville community come 
together, but health and wellness is one of 
them.
To stay at the top of the list, 
Hernandez said it’s important not to forget the word “care” 
because health care remains a service-based industry.
Daniel Duncanson, the CEO 
of Southeastern Integrated Med-
ical, said he thinks the high ranking is a re-
sult of the combined efforts of community 
physicians and UF.
He said ensuring people are educated 
and providing resources to areas where health care may not be as strong are part of 
how the county will maintain its ranking. 
Alicia Baker, health promotion special-
ist for GatorWell, wrote in an email that 
she thinks Alachua County has such a high 
ranking for clinical care because of the 
county’s health resources. 
The university provides expansive medi-
cal support through its UF Health programs 
and Shands Hospital, she said, adding that 
Gainesville also has the Malcom Randall 
VA Medical Center, which helps serve the 
area’s veterans.
In the past, Alachua County’s overall 
ranking has been between 15 and 18. 
 “That ranking makes me happy, but not 
thrilled because I know Gainesville and UF 
have the resources to make this county even 
healthier than it already is,” Baker said.Alachua County ranked No. 1 in the state for clinical care
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Not in the Face
Cynthia Bunnay (left), 24, and Ed Fonseca, 23, both UF students, prepare to be hit by a water balloon at a 
Gator Gaming event on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. The pair allowed passers-by to pelt them to earn votes for an online competition that rewards winners with $8,000 worth of computer accessories.It ranked 18 out of 67 counties for overall health 
LOCALThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Religious freedom 
not an excuse to 
discriminate
Indiana, a state known for a famous race track and as 
the idyllic setting of “Parks and Recreation,” is currently caught up in controversy following the recent passage of 
a religious freedom law.
The problem: The law doesn’t protect religious free-
dom so much as it permits discrimination in the name of 
religion.
The law, called the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, is 
similar to a federal law signed by Bill Clinton in 1993 and other state-level versions of it. The original federal law was intended to protect the religious use of a hallucinogenic cac-tus by Native Americans. 
The act includes provisions that would protect businesses 
from civil lawsuits against them. These new provisions are, in part, inspired by last year’s Hobby Lobby decision, which granted free exercise protection to corporations, people and 
churches.
Criticism of the law is based in opposition to what many 
people see as its intent: exempting businesses who would 
like to deny services to gay couples from civil rights laws. RFRA laws are often used to covertly guarantee the rights 
of individuals and businesses to this, often in response to 
stories where bakery owners are sued into submission after refusing to decorate cakes for gay weddings.
In that way, it’s similar to other “religious freedom” laws 
like one that was passed but vetoed in Arizona last year that legalized discrimination of LGBT people.
Such regressive legislation aimed at maintaining the so-
cial and sexual status quo is popping up everywhere. Indi-ana’s RFRA is one. We have a bill going through our state 
house that would force trans people to use restrooms accord-
ing to their legal sex.
The intent of these laws is never stated as such, of course, 
but after a cursory look at who’s behind them it becomes 
clear. Present at the signing of Indiana’s RFRA last week 
were, according to GLAAD, Micah Clark, Curt Smith and Eric Miller — essentially a who’s who of Indiana anti-LGBT activ-ists. Smith helped write the bill.
Saying it’s meant to protect religious freedom is a brilliant 
rhetorical device on their part, because no one in America and in his or her right mind would argue against freedom of religion. 
It’s one of the most sacred principles in American 
thought; supporting a law meant to protect it should be a no-brainer. But we know why these laws are gaining popu-larity and who’s writing them. They are a ﬁ  nal push from the right in resisting the overwhelming tide of favor for same-sex marriage in this country. In the event of legal same-sex 
marriage, they’d like to preserve the right of businesses to 
discriminate.
Personally, we’re against the law and others like it — in-
cluding the anti-trans bill in our own state. But if these peo-
ple want to argue for legalized discrimination, they should 
own up to exactly what it is. Religious freedom is a shoddy excuse.Gov. Scott wrong, but FEMA’s policy misguided
Recently, Bryan Koon, the director of the Florida Di-
vision of Emergency Management, tried to discuss climate change at a Senate budget meeting. How-ever, there was one stipulation he had to follow: He could not use the term “climate change.”
Talk about counterintuitive.Alas, one could only imagine the plight of a man at-
tempting to discuss environmental policy without being able to use the term “global warming.” This crutch cer-tainly led to hilarity within the Senate hearing, and many laughed as Koon attempted his impossible task. 
However, Koon is not alone. There are many others 
who can relate to his situation. In fact, every person em-ployed by the state knows exactly how Koon feels.
Government ofﬁ  cials in Florida have recently been 
banned from using the terms “global warming” and “cli-mate change.” Even ofﬁ  cials working at the Department of Environmental Protection are unable to use these terms.
This ban has certainly led to laughable moments, but 
its future implications are nothing to chuckle about. Gov. Rick Scott’s ban could put Floridians in danger.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency recently 
announced that by March 2016, any state that doesn’t ac-tively combat the effects of global warming will not re-ceive disaster preparedness money.
Our governor faces an interesting predicament: Is he to 
bow to the wishes of the federal government and accept climate change is real? Or is he to risk the well-being of his constituents when hurricane season comes around?
Whatever his decision, I believe this situation has star-
tling implications. It appears human lives and the well-being of individuals living in a state can be utilized to push certain policy. Within this federal v. state standoff, it seems the lives of Floridians have become nothing more than mere bargaining chips.
FEMA dangles our disaster relief money over Scott’s 
head and dares him to reject it.And of course, many, includ-
ing myself, think he should change his policy. After all, it is absolutely absurd to ban the use of terminol-ogy. Scott’s decree has already led to inefﬁ  ciency that has stunted our environmental policy. It is ridiculous and far too authoritative, and it has made Florida a laughing stock in the national news.
However, FEMA shouldn’t be threatening to withhold 
disaster preparedness funds.
All people living in Florida should not be punished for 
Scott’s actions. We did not ban the term “climate change.” In fact, most of us actually disagree with Scott and ac-knowledge the effect greenhouse gases have on our planet.
I understand the motive behind FEMA’s actions, but 
it is misguided. It puts Floridians at an unnecessary risk
FEMA’s policy is also counterintuitive. Its new rule 
suggests states only deserve preparedness money if they actively plan for climate hazards. This policy seems to promote safety, as it encourages states to adopt adequate environmental regulations. However, it refuses to give money to states that would need it the most — states that are especially ill-prepared for an environmental disaster facilitated by climate change. With this in mind, it is obvi-ous Florida would actually need more FEMA money than other states, because it is less prepared than states that acknowledge climate change.
But if disaster does occur, Floridians will suffer the 
consequences.
Threatening the well-being of Florida’s constituents 
is completely unacceptable. Scott’s ban might be outra-geous, but FEMA’s policy is dangerous. It’s time to stop playing with people’s lives.
Dennis Fiore III is a UF political science freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Dennis Fiore
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 Letter to the Editor
Film and television repre-
sentation for anyone who isn’t straight, white and 
cisgender has been large-
ly nonexistent until very 
recently. People of color have been condemned to stereotyped 
roles, often playing domestic 
workers or exaggerated cari-catures of their cultures. The painful truth is women, people of color and transgender people do not 
see themselves reflected back in the me-
dia they consume.
Many people find a lack of diverse 
representation to be a nonissue — that, 
somehow, the sparse sprinkling of diver-
sity in our media is enough. Portraying black people as maids and criminals or women as girlfriends and prostitutes is not enough, nor is it just or accurate. 
Just because film and television are 
media of entertainment does not mean their unequal representation is trivial. Fiction and frivolity are not mutually in-
clusive. In fact, the kind of art a society 
produces is highly reflective of the ideals of that society. 
Whenever we see a character who 
isn’t a straight white man, we wonder 
at the reasoning behind such a casting 
choice. Why does this character have to be black? How does making this character gay change the story? Why is it necessary? 
We see anything other than straight white 
men as a deviation from the norm. And therein lies the crux of the problem. 
We perceive whiteness, maleness and 
heterosexuality as normal — a default set-
ting. Anyone who doesn’t fit this mold 
is different; other. The opponents to di-verse media representation are usually those whom the media is abundantly rep-
resenting. The people media ignore hold 
the mirror of art up to life and cannot see themselves. 
Movies set in African countries where 
the only black actors are thieves and 
slaves is unacceptable. Movies about rela-
tionships where women only exist to talk about men are unacceptable. Movies that feature transgender women played by cis-
gender men are unacceptable.
Dominican-American author Junot 
Diaz once spoke of representation as a 
demonization of those neglected. “If you want to make a human being into a mon-
ster,” he said, “deny them, at the cultural 
level, any reflection of themselves.” A de-mand for diverse representation is not a trite whim but a necessary jus-tice. In refusing to write black, gay or trans people as 3-D char-
acters of value, we contribute to 
the prejudiced view that those people don’t exist. 
The media we consume has 
shaped our fundamental values since we were children. Not only do white male children — our “default” — internal-
ize negative images about those different 
from them, but also black children, girls 
and children from nontraditional families begin to internalize negative ideas about themselves. “I felt like a monster in some 
ways,” Diaz revealed, “I didn’t see myself 
reflected at all.”
Defining beauty, normalcy or value 
as one cookie-cutter section of humanity does not only promote sexist, racist or ho-mophobic beliefs, but it limits the scope and richness of stories being told. Shows like “Empire,” “Broad City” and “Orange 
is the New Black” wonderfully showcase 
underrepresented groups with detailed, likeable characters and rich, invested plot lines. 
These celebrations of diverse casts are 
brilliant, but the scales remain far from even. As consumers, we vote with our dollars. We can demand representation by consuming the media that provides 
it and ignoring the media that doesn’t. 
While avoiding all sexist, racist, homo-phobic or otherwise regressive media is virtually impossible, being selective and 
critical of the media you consume is not. 
When we hold the mirror of art up to 
life, we should see a complex, diverse re-
flection — not a scene from “Mad Men.”
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Hello Gator Nation!My name is Joselin Padron- Rasines, and I am honored 
to be your Student Body president -elect alongside Student 
Body Vice President- elect Kevin Doan and Student Body 
Treasurer- elect Nicholas Carre. It is with great enthusiasm 
and excitement that I announce Student Government ap-plications are currently open!
The three of us ran on the platform of ensuring that SG 
is open to all students. Now is the time to put that dream into action. We need you! We need your passion, dedica-tion and desire to make a difference on this campus.
There are more than 40 positions available in the exec-
utive branch for the 2015-16 term. From coordinating the 
biggest student-run housing fair, to bringing distinguished 
speakers to campus, to serving the broader Gainesville community; there is a place for you. SG provides an outlet where you can grow as a leader, form lasting relation-ships and be the change you have wanted to see on this campus.
If you want to create events and programming for the 
Student Body, SG Cabinet is your avenue. Serving in the Cabinet is your opportunity to create impactful events that inform and inspire every Gator.
If you want to work with the administration and SG to 
advocate for change in university policies and procedures, apply to be an executive secretary. Executive secretaries serve on my Council of Advisors and keep me up to date on policy issues around campus.
If you want to provide services and resources to stu-
dents, consider joining an SG agency. Agencies have a wide range of initiatives that aim to connect students to each other. Examples include Accent, Gators Going Green and Student Government Productions.
Applications for SG executive positions can be found at 
sg.ufl.edu/Applications.
Applications are due Friday by 5 p.m. If you have any 
questions about this process, please contact my chief of staff, Gabriella Larios, at gabriellalarios@ufl.edu.
Kevin, Nicholas and I look forward to meeting you and 
hearing about all of the ideas and passion you have to move SG forward.
Together, let’s leave a lasting legacy. Thank you, and 
go Gators!
Joselin Padron -Rasines
Student Body President-elect
The music streaming busi-ness got another com-petitor Monday with the 
launch of Tidal, a high-
fidelity music-streaming 
platform, launched by none other than the talented, collaborative 
rapper Jay Z.
According to its website, Tidal 
will combine high fidelity sound 
quality, high definition music videos and expertly curated editorial con-
tent as part of its services. A number of 
popular artists supported the launch of the platform on Twitter over the weekend, in-cluding Kanye West, Madonna, Daft Punk, 
Jason Aldean, Rihanna and, obviously, 
Beyoncé. It hasn’t been ascertained, but such artists could potentially use Tidal to debut albums or add past albums to its list of options. It’s said to compete with other 
powerhouse platforms such as Spotify and 
Pandora. Sounds interesting and exciting, right?
Wrong.Tidal is subscription-based only. It of-
fers two options, $19.99 a month for Tidal HiFi or $9.99 a month for Tidal Premium. None of its services are free, except a free 30-day trial offered with each option. If 
you’re like me, you probably thought: 
“So what?” Other music streaming plat-forms still have the “listen for free” option available. But such artists like those listed above could decide to remove their music 
from websites like Spotify, so listening to 
those particular artists’ music for free will no longer be an option. This would also prevent fans from previewing new albums 
artists release exclusively through Tidal. 
So, basically, the only way fans can listen to their favorite artist’s new album would be to pay Jay Z every month.
This is not fair for people who are, in 
less modest terms, broke. College students are probably not going to pay $10 to $20 a month to listen to new music, simply because we just can’t af-ford it. I support the use of tech-
nology and hard work that is 
being used to create such inno-vative music, and I realize that it probably isn’t cheap to do so. 
But having to pay an obscene 
amount of money to listen to the final product is just unfair. Spotify still offers music for free 
and earns a profit from its 15 million pay-
ing subscribers. 
I am more than positive Tidal could 
achieve the same outcome, especially with 
the support from all the artists who have 
outwardly spoken about the company.
The motive behind Tidal seems greedy. 
Yes, artists and companies need to make 
a living just like everybody else, but they need to realize not everybody has the op-
tion to just throw out money to listen to a 
playlist every month. Especially when oth-er sites offer an alternative. And if select artists decide to remove their music from 
these platforms, that is even more greedy 
and unfair than the cost itself. Taylor Swift has already confessed to Tidal being the home for her music after she pulled her songs from Spotify last year. 
Will this result in fans having to pay 
Tidal to listen to her music being streamed? Fans already purchase her music world-wide; that’s what iTunes is for. It defeats 
the purpose of streaming music altogether.
I am sincerely curious to see whether 
Tidal will become an ultimate success 
or fail. Apple is reportedly working with Beats on revamping its music-streaming 
platform due to the significant increase in 
music-streaming subscriptions compared with CDs.
 This could potentially be the cause of 
Tidal’s downfall because Apple and Beats are striving to offer the same type of con-tent that Tidal is advertising. 
Despite the competition, Jay Z, his 
team and selected artists who support the 
company should consider the economic 
status of the world before depriving fans of listening to free music and Tidal’s in-novative product. 
It’s a shame more people will not be 
able to experience music in this new way simply because they cannot afford it.
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism ju-
nior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Launch of Jay Z's streaming site 
Tidal deprives fans from innovative 
music experiences because of costColumn
Grace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.orgAmy Coker
opinions@alligator.orgDiverse media representation is 
essential yet still somehow lackingColumn
“But having to pay 
an obscene amount of 
money to listen to the 
final product is just 
unfair.”“W e perceive 
whiteness, maleness 
and heterosexuality 
as normal — a 
default setting. 
Anyone who doesn’t 
fit this mold is 
different; other.”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nicky Clayton played a video 
Tuesday afternoon of her teaching 
a bird to plan for the future.
Clayton and Clive Wilkins, both from the Department of Psy-chology of the University of Cam-bridge, will spend the week at UF discussing the benefits of arts and sciences by collaborating through discussion, lecture and perfor-mance.As the bird chose between eat-
ing worms and nuts, Clayton ex-plained in the second lecture, “The Evolution of Shopping Lists,” that humans aren’t the only species ca-pable of making decisions for their futures.“It was really simple experi-
ments but powerful results,” said Vincent Cannataro, a 26-year-old UF biology fifth-year student. “It’s a signature of great science.”
Robert Holt, a UF biology 
professor, invited Clayton and Wilkins from England to help pro-mote the collaboration of the arts with science. 
The events began Monday 
morning with “Creative Naviga-tor’s Lens,” where the lecturers discussed the use of arts to high-light and add meaning to science.
“We need to develop the fresh ways of thinking,” Holt said.
Wilkins, an artist-in-residence, 
and Clayton, a professor of com-parative cognition, first united the arts and sciences through dance.
Wilkins said this way of think-
ing can help people make sense of their lives. He said he and Clayton hope students come away with the wonder and fascination they once had as children.
“We’re all going to live a long 
time,” Wilkins said. “How do we maintain an interest in our world right to the very end?”
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Nicky Clayton, a professor of comparative cognition at the University of Cambridge, presents her lec-ture, titled “The Evolution of Shopping Lists, ” in Bartram Hall on Tuesday afternoon. In her lecture, Clayton argued that humans are not the only organisms capable of remembering to plan for the future.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Members of the Black Law Students Association pose for a photo after the UF organization won Re-gional Chapter of the Year for the third consecutive year. “I personally look forward to continuing that legacy and continuing to make our chapter even better, ” said Candace Spencer, a first-year UF law stu-dent who will start her term as BLSA president Friday.
IT WON FOR THE 
SOUTHERN REGION.
By Angela Dunn
Alligator Contributing Writer
With each recognition, the Black 
Law Students Association continues 
to grow.
The UF organization reclaimed 
its title as Regional Chapter of the Year for the third consecutive year, but this time in the large chapter cat-
egory.
Brian Lawrence, BLSA president 
and a second-year UF law student, 
said the southern region is the na-tional BLSA’s most competitive 
region because of its many active 
members.
It jumped from small chapter of 
the year in 2013 to medium chapter 
of the year in 2014. It also won the 
national title in 2013, when there were only about 20 members, Law-rence, 24, said.
“I think for the last three years, at 
least, the southern region has won region of the year,” he said.
The chapters are evaluated on 
their commitment to community 
service, alumni outreach and sup-
port of pre-law students. They should also have a focus on specific initiatives, like AIDS awareness.
W. George Allen, the first Afri-
can-American student to graduate from the UF Levin College of Law, returned to the university Friday night to speak to members of BLSA 
and the Josiah T. Walls Bar Asso-
ciation about his civil rights efforts through law school. 
UF’s BLSA chapter is named after 
Allen, who congratulated the mem-
bers on winning Regional Chapter of 
the Year yet again. 
Lawrence presented Allen with 
the Trailblazer Award to honor him for paving the way for black law stu-dents today.
Lawrence said BLSA at UF hasn’t 
historically been the strongest. Hav-ing a strong chapter is even more important with UF’s increased mi-nority enrollment, he said.
Candace Spencer, a first-year 
UF law student, said there are now more than 70 members in the chap-ter at UF. She said as the chapter has grown each year, it has become 
more active in the community.
The 23-year-old will start her 
term as president of BLSA on Friday.
“I personally look forward to 
continuing that legacy and continu-ing to make our chapter even bet-
ter,” she said.UF BLSA wins chapter of the year for third consecutive year
Weeklong arts and sciences lecture series continues today
Events
Wednesday, 6:15 p.m. - Bartram Hall, Room 211: “The Spoon 
Lecture” will feature a dancing professor and magic performed by 
Clayton and Wilkins. “If we do our job right, I don’t think you will think about a spoon the same again, ” Clayton said.
Thursday, 4:05 p.m. - Physics Building, Conference Room 
2205: “Ways of Thinking: From Crows to Children and Back 
Again” will feature Clayton’s discussion on comparative cognition.
Thursday, 6:15 p.m. - Fine Arts Building B, Room 103: “An  
Artist’s Life” hosted by Wilkins will explore how he analyzes the world scientifically with a creative eye. “We all want to make sense of our lives, ” Wilkins said.
Friday, 8 p.m. - The Movement (1212 N. Main St.): “First Fri-
day Papirusa Monthly Milonga” features community tango les-sons with a $10 fee. “We need new ways of grappling with life, ” Holt said.
Saturday, 1 p.m. - Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art: “Conver-
sations Without Words: T ango, Contact and Communication” en-courages discussion with tango dancing.CAMPUSWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 LOBLOLL Y REOPENED; 
COFRIN TO CLOSE.
By Chelsey Freeman and 
Conor Soper
Alligator Contributing Writers
On Eighth Avenue between the 
planets and the trees lies the newly 
renovated Loblolly Woods Nature Park boardwalk, ready for bikers and runners alike.
After being closed for almost 
a year, Linda Demetropoulos, the Gainesville Division of Cultural Af-fairs nature manager, said they re-paired holes in the boardwalk and replaced side rails.
The quarter-mile boardwalk is 
free to the public.
UF junior Carley Reynolds said 
she is looking forward to going to the boardwalk and checking out the renovations. The 21-year-old en-vironmental science major prefers Loblolly Woods Nature Park because of its proximity to campus.
“It will be nice to have a bike 
path closer again,” she said.
***
Cofrin Nature Park will soon close 
temporarily for structural repairs.
Starting April 7, the park, at 4810 
NW Eighth Ave., will be closed for a restoration project to the Beville Heights Creek, which runs through the park. 
The property contains a half-
mile-long hiking trail, a playground for children and the Survivors of Sui-cide Memory Garden.
The restoration project will keep 
the park closed until August, said Don Musen, a habitat naturalist for the City of Gainesville Parks, Rec-reation and Cultural Affairs Depart-ment.
Musen said a lot of the damage 
to the creek is due to erosion that contaminates the water quality for anything that would naturally thrive in the creek ecosystem. 
“By stabilizing the banks and 
bringing up the base of the creek to a more natural elevation,” he said, “we’re hoping to contain and stabi-lize that sediment flow so that we 
can overall improve the health of 
the creek.”By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
An old face has returned to UF’s Student 
Senate.
On Tuesday night, former senator and 
Budget and Appropriations Chairwoman Su-
san Webster was unanimously approved to 
replace the Senate seat for District A, which 
covers students living in the ZIP code 32601.
The Senate seat became available when former UF Student Senate Presi-dent Joseph Michaels resigned.
Webster lost her College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences seat to Access Party candidates during the Spring 2015 Student Gov-ernment elections, as the party took all six CLAS seats.
After Webster’s appoint-
ment, four senators recommended for com-mittee seats were approved unanimously.
Two resolutions were presented to sena-
tors. One was passed unanimously while an-other was initially objected.
The resolution supporting 
Gov. Rick Scott’s Higher Edu-cation Affordability Act, which plans to make college more affordable through textbook sale tax exemptions and other measures, was passed unani-mously.
The resolution commending UF for pro-
tecting freedom of speech sparked debate 
when senators argued the university is re-
quired by law to allow free speech.Sen. Amanda Nelson, Access, disagreed 
with the resolution because she said it cele-
brated UF for following the First Amendment.
“The implication is that free speech is a 
privilege that we should be thankful for,” she 
said.
Numerous senators spoke in favor of 
the resolution, such as Sen. Janae Moodie, Swamp.
“One of the things that makes freedom of 
speech so beautiful on this campus is it stimu-
lates conversation,” Moodie said.
The resolution was eventually approved.
Chelsey Freeman / Alligator
Pictured is the renovated Loblolly Woods Nature Park boardwalk 
on Eighth Avenue. The quarter-mile-long boardwalk is now open to the public after being closed for almost a year for repairs.
UPD TYPICALL Y ONL Y 
GIVES BIKE TICKETS FOR 
LIGHT PROBLEMS.
By Jaclyn Scott
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the weather warms up, more 
students are hopping on their bikes. 
But with that comes the possibility of getting a ticket.University Police Officer Wayne 
Clark, who works within the commu-nity service department, said officers either give the cyclist a UF ticket or issue a state of Florida traffic citation. UF tickets are usually issued for park-
ing and decal violations.
Typically, Clark said, the differ-
ence between giving a bicycle ticket 
versus a car ticket depends on wheth-er the cyclist has a light out. If a light is out, they are issued a bike ticket. Otherwise, cyclists are issued a motor vehicle citation.
Equipment citations are the only 
true bicycle laws, Clark said, which can include a $52.50 fine per missing light.
According to the 2014 Florida Stat-
utes, all bicycles are required to have a front light with a projection of at least 500 feet, and a red light or re-flector on the back of the bike.
If cyclists are new to UF, or it’s their first time getting pulled over, he said officers usually issue warnings and educate the cyclist.
UPD can fine cyclists $154 for a 
moving violation, $252 for running a red light and $104 for a nonmoving 
violation, according to the UPD web-
site. Most nonmoving traffic citations, such as parking tickets, within the university cost between $10 and $30.
Allyson Gill, the vice president of 
the Gainesville Cycling Club, said she thinks cyclists should obey the rules of the road just as any car would, but the two are different forms of trans-
portation.
“In reality, bicycles aren’t motor 
vehicles,” she said.
Gill said cyclists often get pulled 
over even when they are not violat-
ing any laws. So, she suggests cyclists carry a copy of the Florida bicycle laws in the event an officer pulls them over.
Bicycles deemed motor vehicles, can be given car ticket
Gainesville parks in stages of repairCAMPUS
By Eric Heubusch
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Rowdy Reptiles have 
cheered their way to a Final Four 
competition for fans — the Loud And Proud Student Section of the Year.
Organized by the National Col-
legiate Student Section Association (NCSSA), the competition pitted student sections from universities across the country against each other in a Twitter battle for votes.
The winner, to be announced 
at halftime of the NCAA men’s basketball championship game, will win a trophy and bragging rights for their student section, said Jonathan Arnholz, vice presi-dent of the Men’s Basketball Row-dies.
“It actually gives you quite a 
bit of credibility,” the 21-year-old public relations junior said. “It’s something you can put on your social media pages.”
The Men’s Basketball Rowdies, 
the student-run group within the Rowdy Reptiles, was formed three years ago. Co-founder Lucas Do-lengowski, now president of the group, wanted to unite the student section at basketball games.
“One of our main goals, espe-
cially this year, was really making the in-game experience something memorable, something exciting,” Dolengowski said.
To cast a vote, anyone can 
tweet #LoudAndProud and #NC-SSAUFGators to rally the Rowdy Reptiles past other groups in the contest.
The contest began March 1, 
and after two weeks of voting, 
the top 16 schools were chosen. 
On March 23, the top 8 were an-
nounced, then the Final Four were 
set Monday.
The Final Four includes the 
Rowdy Reptiles, the ZonaZoo at the University of Arizona, X-treme Fans at Xavier University and the Red Scare at the University of Day-ton, Arnholz wrote in an email.
Arnholz estimates 2,900 tweets 
have been sent out in support of the Rowdy Reptiles. He warns, however, that retweets do not 
count, and that only one tweet per 
account each day is tallied.
Dolengowski said he appreci-
ates the acknowledgement and 
credits the success of the Rowdies 
to Student Body support for the 
basketball team, even through a 
lackluster season.
“That shows how great The 
Gator Nation is and how support-ive they are of what we do,” Do-
lengowski said.
The top two teams will be an-
nounced after the NCAA Men’s 
Basketball Final Four games are 
completed.UF Rowdy Reptiles 
make Final Four of fandom competition
“That shows how great The 
Gator Nation is and how 
supportive they are of what 
we do.”
Lucas Dolengowski
president, The Rowdy ReptilesSTUDENT  
GOVERNMENTSenator who lost seat in Spring election back in UF SenateWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balconyParking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSEBike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
Charming house two bedrooms one bath screened porch large fenced yard central heat/air,washer/dryer 1123 NW 31st Ave Lease $750 dog deposit call 352 475 1586 /352 213 1963    4-3-15-5-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   4-14-15-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    4-1-15-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Lane sofa recliner L-shaped with chaise. 
Chocolate, perfect top-end furniture. Great size for apt. $600 obo. 352-463-6609    4-2-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 3 Subleases 6 FurnishingsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and 
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more 
at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-
71-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14
Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl basic English and math to help her trans-fer to the US education system. Experience with children and reference required. ~20hr/wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    4-2-15-8-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
Help Wanted: small lawn and garden.Two times each month.
call 352-384-3998     4-3-5-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
Housekeeper/driverNeeded 2 days a week/3 hours a day for a family in NW Gainesville near SFCC. Must like cats and dogs. Please email your resume or information about your-self to: altacct@yahoo.com    4-3-15-3-14
    
B.A.S.S. is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in psychology,
special education, or related fields
to work with
individuals with developmental disabilities.
Interest in behavior analysis, diet,
and/or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at
lister@behavioralsupports.com for more info.
4-6-15-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
DRUM LESSONS!!!I am a professional drummer & graduate from the Academy of Contemporary Music in London offering in-home drum lessons or beginner guitar lessons to people of all ages. Contact jameseverett6@gmail.com    4-1-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 RidesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsBy Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Florida needed more.
In the sixth inning, it got the chance.After back-to-back hits from Dalton Guthrie and Richie 
Martin, UF finally had an opportunity to shrink FSU’s 5-1 lead.
But three straight outs 
promptly retired the side, and the Gators had nothing to show 
for their highest-hitting inning of 
the game.
No. 4 Florida (23-7) fell to No. 10 FSU (23-7) 8-3 on Tues-
day night at neutral-site Jacksonville, hitting .188 — its lowest batting average since March 20 against Ole Miss.
“We had our one chance in the sixth with (runners) at first 
and second with nobody out,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. 
“The bottom line is (FSU) played better than we did to-
night.”
UF’s offense struggled most of the evening, going 2-for-10 
with runners on base and 0-for-6 with runners in scoring posi-tion.
FSU was able to retire three consecutive UF batters four 
different times, and just three Florida starters recorded a hit.
Josh Tobias hit a home run in the fourth inning to give 
UF its first run of the game, but outside of that and a couple manufactured runs in the ninth, the Gators fell flat.
The pitching staff was again inconsistent, as starting right-
hander Alex Faedo allowed six hits and three runs before be-ing pulled in the fifth inning for Danny Young. 
Young lasted two innings after giving up five hits, two runs 
and striking out three batters. 
UF used four more pitchers, two of whom lasted just one 
out. 
FSU scored the first two runs of the game, taking the lead in 
the second inning after Hank Truluck hit an RBI single. 
Follow us on Twitter
For updates from tonight's UF 
softball game against North Florida, follow Patrick Pinak on Twitter @pinakk12. Shannon Gilroy was named the Big East midfielder of the week for the second-straight week. Junior Carly Ross was also named to the conference's weekly honor roll. 
Gators in the NBA
The NBA regular season concludes April 15, and 11 former Gators are likely 
to earn a trip to the playoffs with their respective teams. Read the story on 
page 16. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Richie Martin hits the ball during Florida's 7-4 win against Alabama on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. No. 4 
Florida fell to No. 10 Florida State 8-3 on Tuesday in Jacksonville, with the Gators posting a meager .188 bat-ting average in the process.
Florida struggles on offense in loss to Florida State
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
With only four scholarship linebackers 
available for Spring practice, coach Randy Shannon is getting a long, hard look at each of his players.
Shannon, UF’s newest linebackers 
coach as well as the Gators’ co-defensive coordinator, said on Monday he has been impressed with how his players have re-sponded to his coaching style.
One of those players is Daniel McMil-
lian. 
The junior linebacker, who has played 
in just 15 games during his first two sea-sons at UF, had issues learning the play-book in the past, which resulted in his lim-ited playing time. Shannon said he has yet to see any problems.
“He’s making plays,” Shannon said. 
“He’s doing a great job for us. Like I said, I can’t tell you what happened in the past, only can tell you what he’s doing for us right now.”
McMillian said last week that he looks 
at Shannon as a fatherly figure.
“He’s such a great coach,” McMillian 
said. “He’s so patient with you. Willing to teach you and coach you in the right direc-tion that you need to go.”Notebook: Inexperienced 
linebacker showing progressGATORS PLA Y EIGHT OF THEIR 
NEXT NINE GAMES AT HOME.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
With a schedule that has been jam-
packed with games throughout the season, 
the Florida softball team 
found itself with just one day to prepare for its next game: a midweek match-
up against in-state oppo-nent North Florida.
The No. 3 Gators (32-
4) will take on the Os-preys (21-18) today in the team's first home game since March 15. First pitch is set for 6 p.m.
The game against UNF begins a span 
for the Gators where they will play eight of their next nine games at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Coach Tim Walton gives his team every 
Monday off during the season, so the team hasn’t been able to do much scouting on the Ospreys.  
“We haven’t really prepared yet, so to-
day’s that,” Kirsti Merritt said Tuesday. “Probably going to be doing the same things: looking at scouting reports, watch-ing film."
Florida’s pitchers will have to make sure 
they take care of Stacy McClelland and UF softball returns home 
for midweek against UNF
Merritt
FSU topples UF 8-3
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15BASEBALL14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015By Justen Rosenberg 
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
The Gators women’s golf team will look 
to carry over last week’s first-place finish 
at the Briar’s Creek Invitational as they 
compete in the Bryan National Collegiate 
tournament this weekend in Greensboro, North Carolina.
As a result of last week’s performance, 
the Gators saw a slight rise in Golfweek’s top-25 rankings, moving up four spots to No. 21.
A win this weekend will not only re-
sult in another bump in the rankings, but would also give them their first back-to-back event wins since the 2012-13 season, when Florida claimed victories at the Betsy Rawls Invitational and the Florida Chal-
lenge. 
Yet despite the team’s recent success, 
coach Emily Glaser has made sure the golf-
ers don’t look too far down the road.“We have to take each 
week and each tournament on a case-by-case basis and 
go out there (and) leave it all 
on the golf course,” Glaser said. “You stick to the mes-sage and tell them our prac-tices have been awesome, the 
chemistry of the team is very 
good. Just keep believing in what we’re working on.”
One player who has believed in the process is sophomore Karolina Vlckova.
The Czech Republic native 
has come on strong as of late and has played a large role in the recent success of the team. She finished her last two tour-naments in sixth and second 
place, respectively.
“I’m really pleased with her play,“ Gla-
ser said. “She didn’t see exactly the results 
she was looking for last fall, but has kept 
working hard and that patience has paid 
off for her… she’s playing very consistent.”
While Vlckova will try and find herself 
among the top of the leaderboard for a third-straight event, senior Camilla Hed-
berg will attempt to crack the top-25 for 
the first time in her last three outings.
Despite her recent shortcomings, there 
is reason for Hedberg to remain optimistic heading into this weekend.  
The tournament will be Hedberg’s fi-
nal regular season event as a Gator, which should give her an incentive to perform at a high level. Fortunately for her, the event comes at a course in which she has had previous success.
During the same event last year, Hed-
berg had one of her best collegiate finishes, placing in a tie for third place with three other golfers.
According to Glaser, Hedberg is sure of 
her abilities as she heads into this week-end’s tournament.
“She needs to go out there with a good 
mindset and let her talent take over, be-
cause she’s certainly capable,” Glaser said. 
“She knows she can play well at this golf course.”
Regardless of the results from Hedberg 
and the team, they are peaking at the right time, and are confident in their abilities heading into the postseason.
“No matter what happens in Greens-
boro this weekend, we’re headed in the 
right direction,” Glaser said.
Justen Rosenberg / Alligator
Sophomore Karolina Vlckova high fives coach Emily Glaser during the final round of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on March 8 
at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course. Vlckova has finished in the top-10 in each of Florida’s last two tournaments.
UF eyeing continued success following first win of season
WOMEN’S
GOLF
AARON HERNANDEZ MURDER TRIAL
KRAFT STATED 
HERNANDEZ SAID HE 
WAS NOT INVOL VED IN 
MURDER OF ODIN LLOYD
By The Associated Press
FALL RIVER, Mass. — New 
England Patriots team owner Rob-
ert Kraft testified Tuesday that his 
former star tight end Aaron Her-
nandez told him he was innocent when asked if he was involved in a 2013 killing.
Kraft was called by the prose-
cution in Hernandez’s murder tri-al over the June 17, 2013, slaying of Odin Lloyd, who was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee.
He at times seemed uncomfort-able on the stand, even when he was asked where he worked. 
He first said 1 Patriot Place, 
the address of Gillette Stadium, where the Patriots play. 
When asked what he did at 
work, he replied, “Whatever they ask me to do.” 
Then, asked if he ran a busi-
ness, he replied: “We’re a pack-aging and paper business and private equity, and we have two 
sports teams.” 
He first listed the New England 
Revolution soccer team, then the 
Patriots.
Kraft was asked about the 
events of June 19, two days after the killing. 
By then, Kraft said, there was 
a strong media presence at Gil-lette Stadium, including helicop-ters, which were covering the in-vestigation.
Kraft said he found Hernandez 
in a weight room working out and pulled him into an adjacent office for a private talk.
“I understood there was an in-
cident that had transpired, and I wanted to know whether he was involved, and if he was, any play-er that comes into our system, 
I consider part of our extended 
family, and I wanted to get him help,” he said.
“What did he say?” prosecutor 
William McCauley asked.
“He said he was not involved. 
That he was innocent and that he hoped that the time of the mur-der incident came out because he said he was in a club,” Kraft said.
Prosecutors have said Hernan-
dez was at a bar earlier in the eve-
ning, then drove to Boston with 
two friends, picked up Lloyd and killed him in an industrial park.
Kraft said his conversation 
with Hernandez lasted five to 10 
minutes.
Later, he saw him one last 
time at the stadium.
“He hugged and kissed me 
and thanked me for my concern,” 
Kraft said.
Hernandez signed a $40 mil-
lion contract with the Patriots in 2012, but as defense lawyer 
Michael Fee questioned him, 
Kraft said he couldn’t remember whether it ran through the 2018 season.“I don’t get into the details. 
I just knew we signed him,” he said, adding that Hernandez was 
signed because he was “a very 
good player.”
Hernandez watched closely 
during Kraft’s testimony, which lasted a little over 30 minutes.
Next to the stand was the Pa-
triots’ director of security, Mark Briggs. 
He said he also had a conver-
sation with Hernandez on June 19.
“I asked him why he’d law-
yered up,” he said.
The judge struck the comment 
from the record and instructed the jury that citizens do not have any obligation to speak with po-lice.
Robert Kraft, Patriots owner, testifies in Hernandez trial“Our practices have been awesome, the 
chemistry of the team is very good.”
Emily Glaser
UF women’s golf coachWEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior quarterback Jacob Guy (15) walks onto the field at Donald R. Dizney Stadium for 
practice along with LeAndre Rembert (46), Zach Shinn (60) and other teammates on Monday.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Tim Walton looks down the field during Florida's 4-1 win against Illinois State on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly Sta-dium. No. 3 Florida hosts North Florida tonight at 6. The Gators will play eight of their next nine games at home.
Shelby Duncan. McClelland leads UNF with nine home runs on the season, which equals the amount Lauren Hae-ger and Taylore Fuller have for Florida.
McClelland also leads the team in 
batting average (.419), RBIs (29), total bases (77), slugging percentage (.733) and on-base percentage (.500).
Duncan leads the Ospreys in hits 
with 50 and is second on the team with a .394 batting average.
In the circle, UNF has used five 
pitchers and their combined ERA is 3.33. For UF, its three pitchers have a ERA of 1.55, while their opponents have a 7.12 ERA.
Although Florida will be the first 
ranked team the Osprey’s have played this season, UNF did play one game against Kansas — a 1-0 loss.
Florida beat Kansas earlier this year 
7-1.
“Good players, they got some good 
kids on their roster and some good sta-tistics and they’ve played a good sched-ule,” Walton said.  
Walton was quick to praise UNF 
coach Marcie Hickey for the job she’s done since she took over in 2009.
Entering this season, Hickey had 
169 wins in her career as the Osprey’s coach, which makes her the winningest coach in the program’s 22-year history.     
The team has also had at least one 
player receive postseason honors in each of the last six seasons. UNF didn’t have much success before Hickey was hired to take over the program, but she’s been able to make the program competitive and respectable.
“They’ve competed well,” Walton 
said. “With a plus record and I say that not to slight them, but in the past before Marcie (Hickey) got there, they were a below .500 team a lot.”SOFTBALL,  from pg. 13UF is the first ranked team UNF faces
The Seminoles went up 2-0 in the third inning after D.J. 
Stewart doubled down the right field line.
Florida began to show signs of life in the fourth. On a 3-2 
count, Harrison Bader hit a deep fly ball to the center-field 
wall that would have left McKethan Stadium. 
Instead, it dropped into Truluck’s glove for the inning’s 
second out.
As Bader walked back to the dugout, he gave a nod to To-
bias, who walked past him into the batter’s box.
And after taking two balls, the senior crushed a fastball 
into the trees behind left field.
The Gators trailed 2-1.
FSU’s Danny De La Calle hit a solo homer in the fourth, 
increasing the lead to two. 
Next, Dylan Busby singled to left field in the fifth inning, 
scoring a runner from third. 
The Seminoles increased their lead to 5-1 after an RBI sin-
gle from J. Delph six pitches later.
FSU scored three runs in the seventh after an RBI single, 
a Brett Morales walk that scored a runner from third and a 
sacrifice-fly to center field from D.J. Stewart. 
Florida scored again in the ninth inning after Buddy Reed 
grounded out to second base, sending Bader home from third base.
JJ Schwarz grounded out to the shortstop to score one more 
run and decrease the deficit to five, but then Mark Kolozsvary 
popped up to shortstop to end the game.
Next, Florida will travel to Missouri to face the Tigers in a 
three-game series beginning on Friday at 7 p.m.
“It’s disappointing to lose the game tonight, but the fact of 
the matter is we just got beat,” O’Sullivan said. “We’ve got to 
move on and we’ve got to get better.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.BASEBALL,  from pg. 13Florida State 
pitching staff limits 
Florida to five hitsPowell out for Spring 
Brandon Powell won’t be see-
ing the field anytime soon.
Florida head coach Jim McEl-
wain said he plans to hold the 
sophomore running back/wide re-
ceiver out from live drills for the 
remainder of Spring practice while he recovers from a foot injury.
Powell is being fitted by Nike 
for an orthopedic shoe, which he 
will wear while playing, McElwain 
said.
“They’ll do a really good job 
getting him fitted in the right shoe 
and make sure that, kind of a pre-
ventative measure more than any-
thing,” McElwain said.
Powell saw action in 11 games 
last season, gaining 217 total 
yards (70 rushing, 147 receiving) 
with two touchdowns.
Can Jacob Guy be the 
guy? 
While UF’s starting quarter-
back battle looks to be between 
Will Grier and Treon Harris, McElwain said Monday he’s seen 
strides from walk-on quarterback Jacob Guy.
Guy, a fourth-year junior, had a 
relatively successful prep career at 
Dade City (Fla.) Pasco High. In his 
senior year, Guy set Pasco County 
records for passing yards (2,672) 
and touchdowns (42).
“He’s a guy that’s getting a 
little bit better,” McElwain said, “and there at the end, just an over-
all understanding of what we’re 
trying to accomplish.”
McElwain said Guy, as well as 
redshirt junior Skyler Mornhin-weg, have made the most of their 
practice reps, but the quarterback 
group as a whole still has room for improvement.
“With as many reps as our guys 
get, they get an opportunity every 
week, every day to see themselves 
on film get better,” McElwain said. 
“I think one of the things we need 
to do at that position is we need to 
get our feet set quicker. ... You’ve 
got to get your feet set, have a play 
and execute the play. Get the ball 
out.”FOOTBALL,  from pg. 13Walk-on quarterback impressing head coach Jim McElwain
“It's disappointing to lose the game tonight, but the 
fact of the matter is we just got beat. W e've got to 
move on and we've got to get better.”
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coachBy Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Before the seventh inning of 
Sunday’s game against Missis-
sippi State, the Gators looked like they were going to ﬂ  y home from 
Starkville on the brooms they were 
going to sweep the Bulldogs with.
But like the Wicked Witch of the 
West, they melted.
Freshman Aleshia Ocasio, who 
started the game, struck out 10 and 
didn’t allow a run to 
cross through six in-nings before surrender-ing ﬁ  ve runs on four singles and a three-run walk-off home run in the ﬁ  nal frame 
of the 5-3 Florida loss.
Though coach Tim Walton had 
both Lauren Haeger and Delanie 
Gourley ready in the bullpen, he left Ocasio out there because she looked good all game and his relief pitching has been poor of late.
“It’s hard to even really go away 
from her,” Walton said. “At that 
point in time, she had 10 strike-
outs and I think we had two outs and two strikes three or four differ-ent times. To be honest with you, it didn’t really cross my mind that much.”Ocasio has allowed six home 
runs this season, which leads the staff.
Four of her allowed homers have 
come in the seventh inning — in-cluding a go-ahead grand slam to LSU in a 14-10 loss on March 14 and the walk-off homer to Missis-sippi State.
Florida offense lagging 
in clutch situations
In Sunday’s loss, Florida batters 
left 11 runners on base and had 
three two-out bases-
loaded opportunities 
where they failed to 
score.
Walton said it was tough seeing 
his offense not capitalizing on those 
situations.
“It’s very frustrating and that’s 
the key,” Walton said. “Getting a two-out RBI is the key to winning games.”
The Gators’ .149 average with 
runners in scoring position and .202 average with runners on base in 
Southeastern Conference games is 
the lowest and third lowest in the conference, respectively.
Junior Kirsti Merritt said she and 
the batters need to work on hitting more line drives and hard ground balls in situations with runners on base.
“Personally, instead of trying to 
go for the long ball and hitting what we call a ﬁ  ve-run home run,” she 
said, “maybe just going for a base 
hit.”
Haeger could be taken in 
draft
Haeger could be playing past this 
year if she’s selected in tonight’s National Pro Fastpitch draft. Walton said he’s sure she’ll be drafted and that she wants to play in the NPF.
“She pitches and hits, and she’s 
gonna bring great value to anybody that drafts her,” he said.16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015
GATORS IN THE NBA
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Those anticipating a basketball 
letdown following NCAA’s March Madness can look to the profession-als for relief.
The NBA regular season wraps 
up April 15, but numerous teams are looking ahead to the playoffs.
Florida fans may also have a 
vested interest with as many as 11 former Gators hoping to hoist the Larry O’Brien championship trophy in June.In the Eastern Conference, the At-
lanta Hawks have secured the No. 1 seed in the conference and will have home court advantage until at least 
the NBA Finals, barring elimination. 
Al Horford won’t know whom 
he’ll be trying to keep out of the 
paint just yet with as many as six teams potentially landing in the No. 8 spot to face the Hawks in the ﬁ  rst round.
Mike Miller has been a minimal 
contributor at best this season with 
the East’s No. 2 seed, the Cleveland 
Cavaliers, and his role may only de-crease in the playoffs.
Joakim Noah looks to be fresh for the playoffs, as the Chicago Bulls’ management has placed a 32-minute restriction on him for the entirety of the regular season. 
The Bulls, currently the No. 3 
seed in the East, should have guard Derrick Rose back for the ﬁ  rst round, making them a dangerous matchup for whichever team solidiﬁ  es the No. 6 seed in the next two weeks.
Bradley Beal must hope Wash-
ington lands the No. 4 seed, yet the Wizards sit three games behind To-
ronto for securing home court ad-
vantage in the ﬁ  rst round.
Udonis Haslem will make anoth-
er trip to the playoffs with the Miami Heat, currently the No. 7 seed. 
If seeding holds, Haslem and the 
Heat would face former teammate LeBron James and the Cavaliers in 
what would arguably be the most in-
triguing matchup of the ﬁ  rst round.
In the Western Conference, Da-
vid Lee and Marreese Speights have provided necessary depth that has the Golden State Warriors ﬁ  rmly en-trenched as the No. 1 seed. 
They’ll likely play the depleted 
Oklahoma City Thunder, who are 
without star forward Kevin Durant 
for the remainder of the season.
Nick Calathes should provide 
backcourt support for the Memphis Grizzlies, the No. 2 seed in the West. 
Calathes is averaging 4.2 points 
per game in 51 games this year, slightly lower than his career scoring 
average. 
The Grizzlies would face the 
No. 7 Dallas Mavericks, who signed 
Chandler Parsons in the offseason, if the season ended today.
Corey Brewer, who was traded 
to the Houston Rockets midway through the season, is likely root-ing for a seeding shakeup as the No. 
3 seed Rockets would face the San 
Antonio Spurs and two-time NBA Champion Matt Bonner in the ﬁ  rst round.
UF to be well-represented when NBA playoﬀ  s commence
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio winds up for a pitch during Florida’s 4-1 win against Illinois State on Feb. 21 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Notebook: Freshman pitcher giving up late home runs
SOFTBALL