VOLUME 109 ISSUE 118 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gainesville City Commission elections are today
Residents can vote until 7 p.m. for District 1 and At-Large 
candidates. View our map and list of voting locationis on pg. 3 and on alligator.org.Student uses personal experience to increase lupus support 
UF Shands hosting seminar for supporters, pg. 9. Jim McElwain 
and the Florida 
Gators opened 
Spring practice on 
Monday. Read the 
story on page  13. 
88/61
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff 
Joan Canton, vice chair of Southwest Advocacy Group, cuts the ribbon in front of the new Southwest Health Clinic at 816 SW 64th Terrace. The clinic, which will offer health care services to Linton Oaks and surrounding neighborhoods, opens today.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Anthanette Manns can say goodbye to 
the three bus trips she used to take to see 
a doctor. As of today, all Linton Oaks resi-
dents — and those in surrounding neigh-
borhoods — will have a clinic within walking distance.
One hundred chairs were set up un-
der a white tent outside the Southwest Health Clinic on Monday morning, but that wasn’t enough. 
At least 100 more community members 
stretched outside the tented area, waiting 
patiently for the unveiling of their collab-
orative efforts.
“This is an exciting day in Alachua 
County,” said Owen Roberts, super-
intendent of Alachua County Public 
Schools, at the opening ceremony outside the clinic, located at 816 SW 64th Terrace.
The clinic was a product of a triple 
partnership. The county owns the build-
ing, the Alachua County Health De-
partment will run the facility and the Southwest Advocacy Group will hold an advisory role.
It will offer adult physicals, disease 
control, sexually transmitted disease test-
ing, clinical care, family planning, and 
women and children’s health services starting today from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
“People can get good health care with-
out giving up a day of their life,” said SWAG’s vice chair Joan Canton.New clinic brings health care to southwest GNV
JUSTIN ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and 
Trade Bureau approved last week four 
types of Palcohol, a powder intended to be mixed into liquid to make an al-coholic beverage. 
Each packet of the product contains 
the equivalent of one shot of alcohol. 
The company’s powdered versions of 
a cosmopolitan, a margarita, rum and vodka were all approved.
The product was created by Mark 
Phillips, who said he wanted to be able to carry a powdered version of alcohol to suit his active life without needing heavy containers, according to Palcohol’s website.
But, if not used properly, the prod-
uct comes with several health and safety concerns.
One major concern about the pow-
der is its ability to be snorted. Snorting any substance is usually done to trans-fer it into the bloodstream faster to speed up effects, Alicia Baker, a health promotion specialist for GatorWell, 
said in an email. 
“I’d like to stress that alcohol and 
physical activity do not mix,” Baker Powdered alcohol legalized 
but may be banned in FlaSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Students will be able to navi-
gate through Student Govern-
ment’s website with ease next Fall on its new website.
The SG site redesign will be 
the 2014-2015 executive board members’ last big project before their terms expire in April.
UF Student Body President 
Cory Yeffet said creating a new website has been one of his goals since the beginning of his term. He said the last time the SG website was updated was 
about ﬁ  ve or six years ago.He said he wants the site to 
feature SGTV, a weekly You-
Tube video that recaps SG events, but the current site al-lows only a link. He said he also wants to make it easier for stu-dents to apply for SG positions.
“I think what we’re really 
focused on is to tell the story of SG and explain what SG does for the students,” he said.Yeffet said the process will 
cost about $30,000.
Parisleaf, a Gainesville web 
design start-up company, will help SG develop the site.
Student Body Treasurer El-
liot Grasso said Parisleaf was the best option of the four com-panies interviewed because it was the most cost-effective and 
had the quality they were look-
ing for.
“This website was some-
thing that we couldn’t ignore anymore,” he said.
The site is scheduled to go 
live by the ﬁ  rst day of Fall class-es, Grasso said.SG to have new website by Fall, 
estimated to cost $30,000SEE CLINIC, PAGE 4
SEE ALCOHOL, PAGE 4“This website was 
something that we 
couldn’t ignore anymore.”
Elliot Grasso
Student Body TreasurerNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 118 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarPARTLY 
CLOUDY
82/59PARTLY 
CLOUDY
86/61RAIN
84/61PARTLY 
CLOUDY
81/63SUNNY
88/61WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome Cinema presents 
“The Life and Mind of Mark 
DeFriest” followed by Q&A with director and lead attor-ney
The Hippodrome Cinema’s 
next Cinema Lounge presents “The Life and Mind of Mark DeFriest” followed by an in-person Q&A session with di-rector Gabriel London and lead attorney John Middleton tonight at 7 p.m. Once known as Houdini for his multiple and 
improbable jailbreaks, Mark 
DeFriest was condemned to Florida’s worst prison after a lone psychiatrist reversed four court-appointed psychia-trists’ evaluations and declared Mark was faking mental ill-ness. More than 30 years later, DeFriest is still struggling to 
understand how to survive 
a rigid and unforgiving sys-tem while his remaining sup-porters forge an unlikely alli-ance to argue for his freedom in front of the Florida Parole Commission. Admission is $10. The Hippodrome Cinema is lo-cated inside the Hippodrome 
Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. 
For a complete listing of films and additional showtimes, please visit thehipp.org
Vaudeville show
Show your love for local talent in this musical variety show featuring some of Gainesville’s 
finest puppeteers, dancers and 
comedians. “Pressed” star Micaela Fagan of UF, local pup-petry company DolphinWizard and Gainesville musician Katie Hargrove present an evening of geek chic fun Friday at 1982 Bar on West University Avenue. Doors open at 8:30 p.m., show 
starts at 9. It costs $5. We de-
liver both high- and low-brow humor in our irreverent and goofy shows, featuring punk rock, Disney parodies, geek humor and more. Our pup-pets, singers, burlesque danc-ers and stand-up comedians are certain to give you a show 
unlike any other you’ve seen in Books in Gainesville. Survivors are encouraged to submit 
original artwork of all forms, including performance pieces. For more information, call 352-264-6763.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Gainesville. DolphinWizard 
Company members have 
worked at the Hippodrome State Theatre, for the Hensons, in the circus and in sideshows. We are a diverse and wacky group united by our passion for reinventing classic forms of entertain-ment and mixing up comedy, 
music and dance.
UF Fulbright Speakers Lecture 
Series presents “Plant 
Biology Mini-Symposium”This event takes place Friday from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Fifield Hall, Rooms 1304-08. The presenters are 
Emilio M. Bruna, depart-
ment of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation and the Center for Latin American Studies, a Faculty Fulbright Scholar in 2009-2010 in Brazil; Annette Fahrenkrog, a Fulbright Ph.D. student from Chile in the Plant Molecular and 
Cellular Biology Program in 
the School of Forest Resources and Conservation; and Lilit Vardanyan, a Senior Research Scientist, UNESCO Chair-Life Sciences International Postgraduate Educational Center (Armenia), current Visiting Fulbright Scholar in 
the Soil and Water Sciences 
Department. For additional information, please contact Dr. Charles Guy, Dept. of Environmental Horticulture.
Survivors of Violence Art 
Exhibit submissionsAlachua County Victim 
Services and Rape Crisis 
Center is seeking art submis-sions for the 2015 Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit held April 24 to 30 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris 
2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
CHRIS KENNEDY
Alligator Contributing Writer
This month marks 15 years since UF be-
gan rallying for LGBTQ+ inclusion.
On Monday, the team behind Pride 
Awareness Month began its annual quest 
to highlight the importance of the commu-nity.
UF PAM, the largest student-run se-
ries of LGBTQ+ events in the U.S., held its opening ceremony at 7 p.m. Monday in the Arredondo Café, which featured Iraq War veteran and LGBTQ+ activist Sgt. Eric Alva.
The more than 20 scheduled events will 
continue through April 20.
Rachel Eisen, director of staple PAM 
event Paint Your Orgasm, said this year’s 
theme is Trailblazers, and it is all about 
paving one’s own path.
“You’re the pioneer of your own life,” 
she said.
Eisen, a 21-year-old advertising and 
Spanish junior, said she thinks people are nervous about going to PAM events be-cause they’re afraid of being judged.
Jeremiah Corley, another PAM event 
director, said the events are for everyone to come together to celebrate and promote equality.
“Pride Awareness Month is dedicated 
to being as inclusive as possible with ev-
erybody, any community and across the 
entire spectrum,” said Corley, a 20-year-old journalism junior.
Corley’s event, Take Back The Night, addresses sexual violence and is one of the new events added to this year’s lineup. He said the event, co-sponsored by Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Educa-
tion UF, is a march and rally that will fea-
ture poster making, a candlelight vigil and guest speakers.
“Members of the survivor community 
can come together and celebrate their indi-
viduality and power as a person,” Corley said.
Other events include Pride Struts its 
Stuff on Friday, Paint Your Orgasm on 
March 25, Queer Prom on April 6 and the 
Drag Show on April 17.
Eisen said the planning process behind 
PAM was intense and started as soon as 
last year’s ended. It’s worth it, she said, and helps people realize they’re not alone.
Corley said PAM has a meaningful place in his heart. It helped him ﬁ  nd his self-identity when he came out as gay dur-ing his freshman year.
Corley said he thinks PAM is necessary 
because it’s just like any political move-ment. He said with cases of oppression that blow up, they die down due to lack of action.
He said members of the LGBTQ+ com-
munity can’t let that happen.
“It’s provided me with so many amaz-
ing, positive experiences,” he said, “and has given me so much hope for the future.”TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Retired Sgt. Eric Alva speaks at Pride Awareness Month’s opening ceremony Monday. 
Alva, 43, was the ﬁ  rst soldier injured in the Iraq War when he stepped on a landmine af-ter being in Iraq for three hours, and helped to repeal “don’t ask, don’t tell.” “The norm is about being happy and letting people live their lives,” he said.
CAMPUSPride Awareness Month begins its 15th year of LGTBQ+ events
GNV City Commission elections for District 1, At-large today
Courtesy of City of GainesvilleSelect Voting Locations
J. Wayne Reitz Union
655 Reitz Union Drive, UF Campus, Gainesville, FL 32611
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
315 Hull Road, UF Campus, Gainesville, FL 32611
Florida Museum of Natural History
3215 Hull Road, UF Campus, Gainesville, FL 32611
SFC Center for Innovation & Economic                
Development
530 W. University Ave., Gainesville, FL 32601
Thelma Boltin Activity Center
516 NE Second Ave., Gainesville, FL 32601
Doyle Conner Building
1911 SW 34th Street, Gainesville, FL 32614
Paramount Plaza Hotel
2900 SW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32608Pride Awareness Month’s events can be found on the calendar on its Facebook page. 
This week’s events include:
 Circumstance: A ﬁ  lm discuss-
ing homosexuality and religion 
will to be shown in the Reitz Au-
ditorium — Today, 7 p.m. Trailblazing Tunes: Learn and listen to music by queer artists 
on the Plaza of the Americas  — 
Thursday, 11 a.m.
 Pride Struts its Stuff: The sixth annual talent show will be in the Reitz Union — Friday, 8 p.m.
The Gainesville City Commission elec-tions run today from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Up for a vote are the District 1 and At-Large Seat 1 seats. 
Absentee ballots must be received 
at the Supervisor of Elections of-
ﬁ  ce, at 12 SE First St., by 7 p.m. 
Voters must bring valid photo IDs with 
them in order to cast their ballots.said, “especially outdoors in 
hot weather.”
It is unknown what the exact 
effects of snorting Palcohol are, but nose damage from cocaine 
can be looked at for compari-
son. Side effects include nasal perforation, sinus damage and frequent bloody noses, she said.
Brice Childers, president of 
UF’s Outdoor Adventure Rec-reation club and a computer science and physics senior, said in an email that if the weight of 
bottles of alcohol affects athletic 
performance, it would be better to save the drinking for the bar.
The concept is interesting, 
the 23-year-old said, but the product’s success will be noth-ing more than a novelty.
Another concern is the 
powder’s easy concealment. 
However, people can fit four 
1.7-ounce alcohol bottles in the same amount of space that one Palcohol packet takes up, effec-tively carrying more liquid.
 A recent bill filed in the 
Florida Legislature by Sen. Anitere Flores, R-Miami, aims to ban the substance.
Jonathan Arnholz, 21, and 
vice president of Men’s Basket-
ball Rowdies at UF, wrote in an 
email that he wouldn’t use it because he’s personally never been a fan of drinking during games. But he said he doesn’t believe that justifies a ban.
“It seems silly to punish an 
entrepreneur because there’s a potential for some people to 
use this product for unintend-
ed purposes,” said Arnholz, a public relations junior.
University Police Sgt. Eddie 
King said companies that de-sign products like this present a sense of false marketing. 
The claim for the product is 
that it will be useful for people 
who don’t want the extra bulk 
of alcohol containers. But King said the real value caters to people who want to have easy concealment.4, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff 
Pictured is one of four dental chairs in the Southwest Health Clinic. 
Dental health care is one of the medical services that the clinic will provide Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
 Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff 
Pictured is the Southwest Health Clinic’s lab. The clinic will be staffed by the Alachua County Health Department.
The roughly $482,000 clinic has testing lab, several exam rooms
When Canton cut the ribbon, 
the tours began.
Manns, who lives across the 
street from the clinic, was one of the first in line to tour the new 
facility.
The building’s sleek interior 
— with white walls and salmon-
colored tile — caught awed eyes as visitors were guided through the lobby, down to the five exam rooms and the rash exam room, past the four dental chairs and into the testing lab.
It cost about $482,000 to de-
sign, construct and furnish the building, which was purchased in 2011 by the Alachua County Commission, according to a pam-phlet given out at the ceremony. 
The commission, SWAG, Ro-
tary Clubs of Gainesville and a multitude of donations from community members and organi-zations helped out with the fund-ing.
“To me, this project is bigger 
than any single number,” said Dorothy Thomas, SWAG special projects and fundraising chair.
The group aims to bring re-
sources to the low-income neigh-borhood between Southwest 20th Avenue and Interstate 75, Thom-as said.
It opened a Family Resource 
Center in 2012 and added a chil-dren’s playground soon after.
The clinic is its third initiative, 
and there’s more to come.
Thomas announced Monday 
morning SWAG’s plans to create an early learning center.
And yes, she said, that means 
she’ll be asking for the commu-nity to join forces once again.
“In a few years,” she said, 
“let’s meet back in the same place 
and cut another ribbon.”CLINIC , from page 1ALCOHOL , 
from page 1Effects undetermined IT WORKED WITH UF 
SUSTAINABILITY.
JENNA KLINE
Alligator Contributing Writer
With approximately 15,000 
chicken wings and about 1,500 col-
lege students in the same place at the same time, things were bound to get messy and wasteful.
The Interfraternity Council led 
its sixth annual Chicken Wing Char-ity Thing on Thursday, and it be-came the first student group to work with the UF Office of Sustainability to incorporate composting at such a large-scale event.
Ryan Wolis, director of special 
projects for the IFC and a 21-year-old UF political science junior, worked with Greeks Going Green to make the event — an unlimited-chicken-wing dinner fundraiser for Dance Marathon — certified sustainable for the first time.
The UF Office of Sustainability’s 
sustainable event certification pro-
gram gives tips and tricks to plan events with minimal impact on the 
environment, said Allison Vitt, out-reach and communications coordi-nator for the Office of Sustainability.
“It’s a pretty good guide that real-
ly offers a lot of different resources to get people thinking a little bit about things that they might not think of off the top of their head when they’re planning for an event,” Vitt said.
Vitt said the three levels of certi-
fication are orange, blue and green, and they are determined by the number of efforts found under each 
category on the checklist. IFC earned a green level for the event, the high-
est level of recognition.
One of the many sustainable 
practices was the three-option waste section at the Chicken Wing Char-ity Thing, with a compost bin, a re-cycling bin and a landfill bin. This makes it easy and convenient for participants to send less waste to landfills. There were specific volun-teers at the waste section to direct 
people to the right bin.
Wolis said he wanted to make 
the event sustainable because he re-
membered all the trash left behind while on cleanup duty for the last two years.
“It was pretty successful,” he 
said. “The amount of trash we had on the ground was miniscule com-
pared to last year.”
Vitt said organizations must 
reach an average of four efforts un-
der each category to earn a green certification rating.
“They hit a lot of those differ-
ent points and really tried to think about different ways that they could incorporate sustainability into their 
event,” she said.
Annual chicken-wing event sustainable for the first time
CAMPUS
MADISON SCHULTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF students, a lot of sandwiches and one reason 
to give led to a new organization on campus this year.
This semester, Zack Smith and Brendon Martin start-
ed a new club to feed the homeless in Gainesville.
Called “A Reason to Give,” the club started when 
Smith volunteered with local homeless shelters and saw 
how overwhelmed they were.
“I just noticed it was very disheveled and most of the 
volunteers were mandatory,” the 20-year-old said.
The two applied physiology and kinesiology sopho-
mores decided to hand out lunchmeat sandwiches be-cause they’re easy to make and are a food staple that col-lege students can identify with, Smith said.
“It’s a simple idea that could really make a huge dif-
ference,” 19-year-old Martin said.
Smith and Martin have faced obstacles looking for 
food donations, including being turned away from both large corporations that only throw away expired food and small businesses that couldn’t afford to give out ex-tras.
Martin said the organization is still in a recruitment 
phase with about 60 students ready to get involved.
Erica Eden, a 20-year-old UF food science and human 
nutrition sophomore, heard about the club through one of her friends who knows Martin.
“I think what they’re doing is a really good idea,” Eden said. “There’s a lot of people in need and the two of them are extremely motivated and determined to make 
this a reality.”
Smith and Martin said they are interested in partner-
ing with other campus organizations that could send 
their members to hand out food every week. 
Smith said that the organization is more than just 
serving food to the homeless. It’s a way to get connected with the community and bridge the divide between lo-cals and college students. 
When they begin serving the sandwiches, volunteers 
will take turns going downtown and helping out.
“We believe with the help of interested UF students, 
our presence will make a large impact on the commu-nity,” Martin said.
The pair believes that getting their name out and 
starting fundraisers this semester will allow for success in kick-starting the program during the Fall semester.
They expect to bring in money from restaurant spon-
sorship nights, tabling around campus and online-dona-
tion websites.
Martin said there is definitely a mindset to broaden 
the club to other campuses such as Florida State Univer-
sity or the University of Central Florida.
“Each city definitely has local groups that are in 
need,” he said. “It would be great to have our group be-ing the ones to serve them.”
The club’s next meeting is today at 6 p.m. in Florida 
Gym, Room 107B.UF students start organization to 
give food to homeless populationPAIGE LEVIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Monday, students were in-
vited to enter a blue tent in the mid-
dle of the Plaza of the Americas to learn what it’s like to be a chicken.
“Do you want to become a chick-
en for two and a half minutes?” en-ergetic women asked passers-by.
Inside, the tent was boiling hot.“It’s a sauna in here,” said Clau-
dia Lifton, a representative for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA. “But at least we’re not packed in together, hav-ing our noses cut off and waiting in 
our own feces to be killed.”
Peta2, PETA’s youth division, 
visited UF Monday and will be 
here today from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. to feature “I, Chicken,” an exhibit en-couraging empathy toward chick-ens, the most abused animals on the planet, said Peta2 tour administra-tor Caroline Gardner.
“I, Chicken” is a real-time, virtu-
al reality experience where partici-pants become chickens and engage in natural chicken behaviors before eventually being captured by a farmer. Gardner, 23, said it’s meant to be positive, not graphic or gory.  
The exhibit travels around the 
country and will visit more than 
170 college campuses this semes-
ter. Participants wear virtual reality headsets and movement markers and are followed by six cameras.
Gardner said “I, Chicken” is an 
important tool to highlight the 9 billion chickens raised in the coun-try for food every year and the 452 million egg-laying hens kept in tiny cages.
“Chickens are smart and great, and we should love them because they’re people too,” Gardner said. “We just want to remind people that a chicken is a rat is a dog is a boy.”
Chickens are not protected un-
der federal law, she said, so the best thing people can do is not eat ani-mals if they want to help them.
“It is hard to relate to a chicken, 
and we’re trying to make that easi-
er,” she said. “They are really very 
complex individuals. They have unique personalities just like the dogs and cats we share our homes with, but the things that happen to them are really monstrous.”
Peta2 works with animal rights 
groups on campus, and its campus representative, 20-year-old UF pub-
lic relations junior Christina Bick-
nell said she thinks “I, Chicken” is a cutting-edge experience.
UF economics sophomore Tobi 
Olajubu said he was on his way to get lunch when he passed the ex-hibit.
He said the experience was 
overwhelming, and he initially ex-
pected something different.
“Actually being a chicken 
changed my whole perspective,” 
Olajubu, 20, said. “Now, the con-nection has been made.”
While discussing the experience 
with representatives, Olajubu said he was in shock.
“What if I was just walking 
around campus, and someone cap-tured me to eat me just because they were smarter than me?” he said.TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Paige Levin / Alligator
Kaley Thomas, a 21-year-old UF journalism junior, wears a virtual-reality headset Monday afternoon to experi-
ence peta2’s “I, Chicken,” a virtual-reality experience in which participants see what it’s like to be a chicken.
CAMPUSPETA simulation tries to build student empathy for chickens
 IT SEEKS TO EXTEND STUDENT INVOLVEMENT.
STELLA HEEKIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
One of the largest global seed companies is growing its rela-
tionship with UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.
Limagrain, the fourth largest seed company in the world, 
announced earlier this month it is expanding its partnership 
with UF and IFAS. Ruth Borger, assistant vice president of 
IFAS Communications, said the partnership will include op-
portunities for students, such as internships and guest lectures.
Limagrain and HM.CLAUSE, a business subsidiary of the company, have a history of partnership with UF and IFAS. They donated $300,000 last year to support the Challenge 2050 Project, an initiative led by UF and IFAS and the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences to solve the challenges of the world’s rapidly growing population.
Borger said students can learn about business models and 
gain real-life work experience from Limagrain’s executives.
“This company is growing and wants to dramatically in-
crease its workforce,” Borger said.
Anthony Andenoro, an assistant professor of leadership ed-
ucation within the college and the Challenge 2050 Project aca-demic coordinator, said he is excited about future prospects of the expanding partnership. He said he believes global change is possible by investing in students.
“It’s this really nice back and forth with these two organiza-
tions that creates a distinctive experience for the students and our program,” Andenoro said.
The partnership will give students the confidence and ca-
pacity to solve global issues like food security and natural re-source conservation, he said.
“Our students begin to take ownership of the problem,” An-
denoro said.
He added that he sees UF defining itself as a hub for popula-
tion studies.
“We’re not content in just the classroom,” Andenoro said. 
“We want to bring everyone into the conversation.”UF/IFAS extends its partnership with global seed company
MELISSA GOMEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Project Springboard is aiming to fuel 
student engagement through art.
With the help of a $1,000 Healthy Civ-
ic Campus and Community grant given by the Bob Graham Center for Public Ser-
vice, a group of UF students hopes to ac-
complish that goal by debuting a wood-en-canvas Mona Lisa in April for student interaction.
In its first year, the Healthy Civic 
Campus and Community grant awarded three projects out of twelve proposed, to-taling about $5,000. 
The grants are not a one-time deal, 
said David Colburn, director of the Gra-
ham Center. Colburn said he is looking 
to raise the amount in the next few years.
“We want to empower our young people to work together to address an 
issue that will strengthen our campus or community,” Colburn said.
Undergraduate students can propose 
a local- or campus-based project this Fall. 
A $3,400 grant allowed the Lake For-
est Garden project to move forward with the idea to plant a garden at Lake 
Forest Elementary School to double as a 
classroom, said Anupa Kotipoyina, a UF Spanish and history sophomore involved in the project.
“(The grant) allows us to build some-
thing that will last,” Kotipoyina, 20, said.
Van Truong, a 19-year-old UF anthro-
pology sophomore, said she was inspired to start Project Springboard after recreat-
ing Van Gogh’s “Starry Night” with biol-
ogy notes on a whiteboard.
“Don’t underestimate the magnitude 
of your idea,” Truong said. “Just go for it.”UF group receives grant for 
communication through art SAMANTHA GUTMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three hundred miles. That’s how far 
74-year-old Bill Brady drove Monday to lis-
ten to former Associated Press reporter and current UF lecturer Terry Anderson.
Exactly 30 years ago Monday, Anderson 
was pulled out of his vehicle by Hezbollah Shiite captors in Beirut, Lebanon. He spent nearly seven years of his life as a hostage.
The UF College of Journalism and Com-
munications and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service hosted “Seven Years a Hostage 
with Terry Anderson” in Pugh Hall. 
That day in 1985, Brady picked up Time 
Magazine and read about Anderson’s cap-
ture while in a dentist office in San Francisco.
“I was just so taken back by the torture he 
was going through — solitary confinement, handcuffed and the fact that his wife was ex-pecting,” Brady said.
He wrote to Hezbollah when he got home.“Here’s me. Here’s my address. Here’s my phone number. I’m an American, just like Terry Anderson is. I have a job, just like Terry Anderson. Why don’t you just take me in ex-change?” Brady pleaded in his letter.
Brady received only a muffled phone call 
from Beirut after he sent his letter. He finally met Anderson on Monday when he spoke to a full audience about his experiences in cap-tivity and his quest to make his life memo-rable.
“As hostages, we tried to get them to un-
derstand we had not committed any crimes,” Anderson said.
Now, as a professor, Anderson educates 
aspiring journalists and warns them of po-tential risks.
“You take risks for a purpose,” he said. 
“Our purpose is to find and tell the truth.”Former AP hostage speaks 
about captivity, purpose in life
“You take risks for a purpose. Our 
purpose is to find and tell the truth.” 
Terry Anderson
UF professor and former AP hostageReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
SAE shows segregation isn’t behind us 
This year is already proving to be an important one 
in regard to race. The narrative this year has been one of simultaneous progression and regression. 
Around the time of the 50th anniversary of the Selma-to-Montgomery marches, race is once again a prevalent 
topic in the news. While a number of media outlets 
have been celebrating the success of the film based on the Selma-to-Montgomery marches, a more recent news story shows we have not made as much progress as we thought.
Last week, the University of Oklahoma’s chapter 
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon was in the news after a video surfaced of fraternity members chanting racist remarks. The chants include racial slurs targeted at blacks and a 
promise that they will never be allowed to join the fra-
ternity. The chants were recorded and posted to Twitter unbeknownst to those engaging in the chant.
Since then the members of the fraternity have been 
suspended from OU, the chapter has been shut down and the house that the fraternity occupied has been van-dalized.
The president of OU, David Boren, has shamed the 
fraternity on multiple occasions and has requested that 
members of the fraternity leave the school. Students and 
teachers have protested outside the fraternity house since the video surfaced, and the national headquarters of SAE has revoked the chapter’s membership.
I am not surprised that a video like this exists in 
2015. We are not nearly as far removed from the days of segregation as people like to think. The people who are surprised upon viewing the video are not realistic in their perception of race in America.
The aspect of this chant that seems to outrage most 
people appears to be the use of the N-word. This, how-ever, is not my primary concern with it. My primary concern is the looks of glee on the faces of the people singing as they talk about hanging another human be-ing. To cheer such an act of heinous violence with such pride and joy is truly sickening and bewildering. The song also encourages segregation by stating that a black person could never join the fra-ternity. Once again, we are not as far removed from the days of segregation as people think.
I applaud the SAE headquar-
ters for disbanding the chapter.
I applaud David Boren for addressing the issue di-
rectly and for doing so with such professionalism. I ap-plaud those who protested the fraternity and made the school take action.
The members who were leading the chant have been 
expelled and have since issued apologies. They blamed alcohol and expressed regret over their actions. One honestly has to question whether they are remorseful 
due to their actions or due to the fact that their actions 
were filmed. 
Blaming alcohol is a bogus excuse. People who are 
drunk don’t suddenly become racist. People are held accountable for causing car accidents when they are inebriated; they should be held accountable for all their actions under the influence.
A number of conservative media outlets have come 
to the defense of the fraternity boys. They have blamed 
hip-hop music’s usage of the word as an influence on 
the boys. This is moronic. As a fan of hip-hop music I can assure you that no rapper in the history of music has ever made a song about gleefully lynching black people. Hip-hop music has nothing to do with this.
When videos like this exist, it is hard to believe that 
Selma was 50 years ago. It is true the U.S. is making strides to rectify its racist history, but it still has a long way to go. 
The only way to make progress toward equality is 
to acknowledge that racism is still a problem. We are living in a less divided America than our parents were, and by acknowledging and addressing race, I hope our children will live in an America so intertwined that vid-eos such as these no longer exist. 
Emanuel Griffin is a UF journalism freshman. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.
Check out the other responses onlineBest response:
donut castle
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: What 
would you do with 1,400 doughnuts?Today’s question: Would you try powdered alcohol?Left and right finally 
agree on Ferguson
Since the Department of Justice released its report on the 
internal practices of the Ferguson Police Department, the national shouting match that erupted repeatedly last year 
resurfaced — but in a different way.
An earlier DOJ report cleared Darren Wilson of criminal 
wrongdoing in the death of Michael Brown last summer. Those in the Darren Wilson camp rejoiced in the federal government’s affirmation that Brown deserved to get shot six times. Regard-less, people on all sides of mainstream thought accepted the DOJ report and moved on. Passions still burn, though, especially in the context of what happened after the shooting — protests that were countered by a police department more heavily armed than our troops were when they invaded Iraq in 2003.
People on each side saw themselves as champions of jus-
tice for oppressed minorities or righteous defenders of law and order. At the same time, they painted their opponents as cop-hating anarchist looters, or as a corrupt city government with a racist police force. 
There were likely actual racists and anarchists on either side 
of the police barriers, just as there were people who earnestly believed they were doing the right thing. But the argument has become so entirely ideological that the aforementioned beliefs still persist, long after they’ve been invalidated by a DOJ report.
At the height of the controversy, the DOJ descended on the 
town, collecting documents and conducting interviews. What it found was an appalling story, substantiated by the FPD’s own paperwork, of a police force that acts like a revenue-collecting racket, denying citizens of their constitutional rights and us-ing excessive force quite regularly. Officers ranked sergeant or above review their own use-of-force reports, and, to their own admission, officers punish residents simply for making them irritated and issuing citations for things like “manner of walk-
ing.” That disturbing information sits on top of overwhelming 
racial bias. Statistics alone demonstrate blacks in Ferguson are twice as likely to be searched, cited and arrested. Force was used against blacks disproportionately, and every police dog attack was against a black person.
Many have already criticized it as anti-police propaganda 
straight from President Barack Obama and U.S. Attorney Gen-eral Eric Holder. Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke said it will “fuel this cop hatred, this anti-police sentiment, that’s go-
ing on in America. ... We haven’t seen these types of assaults 
on the institution of policing since the turbulent ‘60s.” Interest-ing he pointed out the 1960s, when Mayor Richard Daley’s own thoroughly corrupt Chicago Police Department beat peaceful protesters into bloody heaps on national TV. 
But many conservative intellectuals are moving past knee-
jerk defenses of the police and are instead focusing on some-thing that rightly disturbs them: A government enriching itself with armed agents who abuse their authority and are violently 
indifferent to the rights of its citizenry. Leon Wolf of RedState 
deliberately assumed everything the DOJ said was false when he read the report, but he was still convinced by the statistics and the FDP’s own evidence. Others are joining him — criticiz-ing police misconduct isn’t disrespectful to the institution of law enforcement. We’re glad it’s not just the left speaking out in con-demnation of the FPD’s behavior.TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOREmanuel 
Griffin
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
As the nation waits for the Supreme 
Court’s looming decision on marriage equality, some state governments are 
rushing to enact anti-LGBTQ+ laws.
A member of the Oklahoma State Legisla-
ture recently introduced a bill that would le-galize discrimination against members of the LGBTQ+ community. The Oklahoma Religious Freedom Act allows private businesses and government entities to refuse certain services to LGBTQ+ people on the basis of — you guessed it — religious freedom.
The bill was intended to allow businesses in the wedding 
industry to turn away same-sex couples, and it goes even 
further by allowing government agencies, boards, depart-
ments and commissions the right to deny services to LG-BTQ+ people and refuse to validate or recognize their mar-riage licenses.
Basically, government employees don’t have to do their 
jobs if “it would be contrary to the sincerely held religious beliefs of the individual or religious entity regarding sex, gender or sexual orientation.”
Unfortunately, this bill comes at the heels of several simi-
lar pieces of legislation that have been introduced in Arkan-sas, Arizona and Colorado. Another Oklahoma bill, the Free-dom to Obtain Conversion Therapy Act, tried to ensure that minors can be forced by their parents to undergo therapy to change their sexual orientation or gender identity, despite the fact that prominent psychological and medical associa-tions argue that such “treatments” can cause serious harm.
In the midst of a possible Supreme Court decision that 
could legalize same-sex marriage in all 50 states, these pro-
posals represent an attempt to delegitimize LGBTQ+ lives 
and derail the progress that has been made in ﬁ  ghting for equality.
In addition to their obvious promotion of discrimination 
against members of the LGBTQ+ community, these bills are also hugely insulting to people around the world who are actually struggling for religious freedom. As I write this column, groups of people are being beaten, jailed and pros-ecuted simply because of their faith.
In contrast, supporters of anti-LGBTQ+ bills 
wish not to exercise the right to practice their religion, but to punish others for behaving in ways that don’t align with their religious be-
liefs.
For instance, county clerks who object to 
same-sex marriage on the basis of their religion 
can refrain from marrying people of the same sex. They also have the right to quit their jobs. They do not, however, have the right to dis-criminate against other people.
Thankfully, other lawmakers have responded to these 
obvious attempts to manipulate the legal system to support 
personal biases.
Democratic state Rep. Emily Virgin, who is strongly 
against the Oklahoma Religious Freedom Act, proposed an 
amendment that would force businesses to publish a notice of their discriminatory practices.
According to the proposed amendment, the notice must 
be posted “in a manner clearly visible to the public in all plac-es of business, including websites.” The notice may cite reli-gious beliefs, but it must state speciﬁ  cally which couples the 
business refuses to serve on the basis of race, gender identity 
or sexual orientation.
In suggesting that businesses publicly disclose the fact 
that they are refusing service to members of the LGBT com-munity, Virgin is treating  bills as exactly what they are: le-galized discrimination.
Rather than focusing on protecting discrimination, law-
makers should focus on protecting the rights of people in marginalized communities as they strive to achieve equality.
Throughout our country’s history, various religious 
groups have fought long and hard to overcome the hatred and misunderstanding of others. By now, we should all know that religious freedom is supposed to protect people from intolerance, not inﬂ  ict them with it. It’s disappointing that some lawmakers can’t tell the difference.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Anti-LGBT bills legalize discriminationColumn
During Spring Break, I took an oppor-tunity to visit our nation’s capital to take in all the history and stories it had 
to offer. From seeing all the monuments that pay great homage to past presidents, taking 
tours of buildings like the Capitol and the White House 
that hold such political signiﬁ  cance and facing the blast of snow that caused the federal government to shut down, it was a trip I’ll never forget. I’ll also never forget some of the thoughts that crossed my mind as I explored what could be called a political science major’s playground.
One of the very ﬁ  rst things I did was go the Smith-
sonian’s National Air and Space Museum, which houses a grand collection of aeronautical pieces that span hun-
dreds of years, including the actual plane the Wright 
Brothers made for their ﬁ  rst ﬂ  ight. It also holds authentic World War II planes and genuine tools used by various astronauts to explore our solar system. 
At the same time I was seeing all of this, I was thinking 
about how we as a country no longer have a passion for exploring our curiosities and scratching the surface of the unknown. All the artifacts I was viewing took me back to a time when we were the ﬁ  rst to take on the most daring 
challenges, the most notable being the ﬁ  rst to send people 
to walk on the moon. I feel as if over the past decade we have not aimed to reach our full potential, and we could be doing more, especially with the space program. Astro-naut Buzz Aldrin, the second man to walk on the moon, feels the same way.
Last month, Aldrin testiﬁ  ed at a special Senate sub-
committee hearing about sending people to Mars and es-tablishing a martian base. Aldrin also asserted that since 
the Apollo moon landings, America has failed to demon-
strate its leadership in space exploration. He said, “Over the next few years, we must choose whether we are to go forward as a nation and lead the extension of global civilization to a permanent presence beyond Low Earth Orbit, or to allow American leadership in space to erode over the next decades.”
I have to agree with Aldrin. We could be doing more 
in space exploration, especially considering that we have two subsequent administrations that have not been very supportive of NASA. Presi-dent George W. Bush started a trend of bud-get cuts to NASA, and the current Obama administration continued this pattern.
I believe almost everyone agrees, regardless of ideol-
ogy, that NASA is important for research and develop-ment and leading the world in exploration. John F. Ken-nedy got it right when he said we move forward with these things “not because they are easy, but because they are hard.”
Another thought raced across my mind when I saw the 
actual ﬂ  ag that ﬂ  ew over Fort McHenry during the War of 1812 — the one that inspired Francis Scott Key to write 
our national anthem. To view the actual ﬂ  ag behind our 
anthem was awe-inspiring and reminded me how proud I am to be an American, a sentiment that a majority of mil-lennials do not share.
According to a Pew Research Center poll in 2013, only 
32 percent of millennials agree the U.S. is the greatest country in the world, compared to the Silent generation’s 64 percent. The world today is much more globalized and accessible than it was back in the early 20th century, so 
I sort of understand why that number is so much lower 
than with older generations. However, when asked if they agreed with the statement, “I am very patriotic,” only 70 percent of millennials agreed, while these numbers were much higher among Gen Xers (86 percent), baby boomers (91 percent) and Silents (90 percent).
It’s pretty disappointing when my generation feels this 
way, even though the U.S. fosters levels of diversity, lib-erties and opportunities that are unknown to any other 
nation.
We still, and always will, have work to do to continue 
to advance these principles, but my generation’s lack of 
enthusiasm for a place that is so free is unsettling. My plea is for my generation to grasp their sense of patriotism and use it as a source of inspiration to continue to improve our country and make it better for future generations. 
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political science senior. 
His column appears on Mondays.Let’s not lose our curiosity and patriotismColumn
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s been a week since our return from Spring Break now, and perhaps the collective misery of going to your 8:30 a.m. class has worn down into a more man-
ageable annoyance.
To brighten up the returning-to-school doldrums, I’m 
here to talk about children’s television. Who watched the season ﬁ  nale to “Legend of Korra” a few months ago and squealed with excitement when Korra and Asami, two main female characters, walked into a shining column of light and declared their ultimate love for one another in a totally roman-
tic way? This girl.
Okay, they didn’t declare 
their love out loud, but it was deﬁ  nitely implied and con-
ﬁ  rmed by Bryan Konietzko, the show’s creator, on Tum-blr. They held hands and walked into a glowing spirit portal and gazed lovingly into each other’s eyes. It was pretty much the equivalent of riding off into the sunset.
More recently in the world of diverse representation, 
the popular children’s animated show from Cartoon Net-
work, “Steven Universe,” released their season one ﬁ  nale 
on March 12. During the episode, two female-presenting characters, Ruby and Sapphire, are revealed to be in a romantic relationship through a musical number. “Ste-ven Universe” is a show that continually manages to get around network limits to represent characters with ﬂ  uid gender representation and sexuality.
“Legend of Korra” and “Steven Universe” received a 
lot of positive support from fans for the choice to include 
LGBTQ+-identifying women of color in their storyline, 
but also a lot of backlash from people disapproving of the relationship.
Many seem to think that representing queer relation-
ships in television shows for children is somehow push-ing the envelope for what is appropriate. Complaints have 
been made that children shouldn’t be exposed to different 
sexualities and gender representations until their sweet 
little angel ears are ready to hear about such scandal.
This viewpoint is narrow-minded, and it rejects the 
idea of diverse sexual expression. When kids see people 
like them represented in media, whether this is in the form of more racial diversity or sexual representation, they are positively impacted. 
We all grew up forming opinions and generalizations 
about things through watching TV. What is depicted on television, both for children and adults, is often a way to broadcast what is normal and acceptable to society. When 
what is shown on TV caters to only one or two demo-
graphics, then these identiﬁ  cations become ultimatums children everywhere sitting in front of the TV will emu-late and consider normal.
For far too much of television’s history, representation 
has been limited with few exceptions to largely skinny, one-dimensional white women and buff, aggressively heterosexual white men. That’s not the only type of rep-resentation I would want my children to see. That’s not 
the only representation I want to see. Frankly, it’s boring.
The world is full of diverse, multi-layered and unique 
people who deserve to have stories told about them and 
to be represented equally in society.
When exposed to this diversity early in life through 
shows like “Steven Universe” or “Adventure Time” — another Cartoon Network show that features a conﬁ  rmed lesbian couple — children see that this diversity is not ab-normal or unspeakable.
When people are still discovering and exploring their 
gender and sexuality, showing the possibility of a bright future for diversity through ﬁ  ctional characters and sto-ries encourages acceptance.
“Legend of Korra” and “Steven Universe” have been 
small, hard-won victories for the world of accurate rep-resentation. I can only hope that there are many more to come. 
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations sopho-
more. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Representation in 
child TV shows important, neededColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgCHRIS WATKINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
When nothing in the world seemed to make sense, Filipe 
DeAndrade found salvation in nature and a voice in filmmak-
ing.
Two days after graduating from UF in 2012, DeAndrade 
started his hike up the Appalachian Trail. He hiked for six months and filmed every day.
The 28-year-old called it a turning point in his life.He created a short film sharing the importance of adap-
tion and submitted it to National Geographic’s Wild to Inspire competition, where he took first place.
DeAndrade’s film “Adapt” was one of four selected out of 
hundreds of entries to be shown at the Sun Valley Film Festi-val in Sun Valley, Idaho.
“It wasn’t just my film — it was my story and my passion 
that I put out there,” he said.
DeAndrade, a telecommunication alumnus, is a freelance 
director, cinematographer and director of photography for Nat Geo Wild and the African Wildlife Foundation. He spe-cializes in adventure, wildlife and nature videography and photography. 
His footage spans three years, which includes the hike and 
his monthlong drive around California and Utah with his friend, who shot time-lapse footage. He said the whole pro-duction process cost roughly $7,000.
“I really think that competition was the universe calling, 
and I was lucky to answer,” he said.
The film competition was created in a partnership between 
National Geographic Wild, the Sun Valley Film Festival and the African Wildlife Foundation.
Kathleen Garrigan, senior communications and media re-
lations officer at the foundation, said the films in the competi-tion should inspire conservation and get people outdoors to experience the world around them.
“We wanted to take it beyond a viewing experience and 
make it into a conservation experience,” Garrigan said.
The judges were from Huffington Post Green, Vice and 
Earth Touch, and the criteria was based on filmmaking quali-ty, creativity and connection to the theme “Destination Wild.”
“Destination Wild” is a program special from National 
Geographic Wild, which features the best and most innova-tive wildlife storytelling from the greatest filmmakers in the world.
This year’s festival featured more than 60 films, coffee talks 
and panels. Clint Eastwood was also honored with the Life-time Vision Award.
DeAndrade won the title of ambassador for National Geo-graphic and will have the opportunity to create a film in Af-rica to highlight the importance of conservation. For the next two years, the self-proclaimed nomad is going to travel in an ambulance he bought to film wildlife.
“When you do what you want to do, when you do what 
you are supposed to,” he said, “the universe will reward you.”8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
CAMPUS
MORIAH GAYNOR
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gov. Rick Scott honored a UF 
student for her work to improve education for underprivileged stu-dents.
Katelynd Todd, a UF health 
education and behavior junior, was one of three people to receive Vol-unteer Florida’s Champion of Ser-vice Award last week.
“The most challenging (part) is 
to find enough time to accomplish everything you want to accom-plish,” Todd, 20, said.
In 2014, Todd founded 
Gainesville Reads Inc., a nonprofit organization improving literacy for local, at-risk elementary school students by fostering accomplish-ments and support. 
She also helped create Excel-
lence Scholars Cabinet, a leadership development program for under-served high school students run within the UF Black Student Union.
“If you can get people excited about learning things, then that’s one underlying development that can really impact the rest of their lives,” Todd said.
Kirsten Elliot, the assistant di-
rector of Excellence Scholars, said the program provides these stu-dents with support, experience and encouragement, which will help them achieve their future goals of entering college, the military or the work force.
“So many times people say ‘no 
child left behind,’ but there are so many children left behind because they’re not from communities that have the resources they need,” the 20-year-old electrical engineering major said.
Todd said she looks at the award 
as an achievement, not a goal. She said she plans to build and expand upon her service programs at UF.
More service plans include start-
ing an agricultural and nutritional program in the Jacksonville area called Grow under the Bill Clinton 
Global Initiative as well as conduct-ing research on chronic illnesses 
with a grant from the McNair Scholars Program. She also sits on both the Reitz Union Board of Man-agers and the Student Health Advi-sory Board to the infirmary.
Todd said she encourages peo-
ple to take initiative to achieve their goals. Each of her projects began with a conversation; taking the first steps made them realities, she said.
“The world changes every day 
by every single one of those small 
steps,” she said.
UF junior receives award for service from FL Gov Rick Scott
Courtesy to the Alligator
Fillipe DeAndrade, a filmmaker and UF alumnus, poses 
for a photo. After his graduation in 2012, DeAndrade cre-ated an award-winning short film based on his experienc -
es hiking the Appalachian trail.
UF alum wins National Geographic contest
 HER BLOOD ALCOHOL LEVELS WERE .247 AND .256.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local woman 
Sunday evening with a blood alcohol more than 
three times the legal limit after she reportedly hit two cars.
Just before 10:30 p.m., Sylvia Ramirez, 25, 
was driving her black Mazda east on Southwest Archer Road when she crashed into one car and sideswiped another car in the 3500 block of Southwest Archer Road. She continued driving after the crash but was followed by the driver of the second car, according to a police report. 
Police stopped Ramirez at Southwest Second 
Avenue as she was traveling south on 34th Street. She began rambling and crying about her hus-band and the crash when police began to speak with her, according to the report.
Ramirez told police she was on her way home 
from work at Splitz Bowling Center, located at 1301 NW 76th Blvd., and that she had two drinks — a Jagerbomb and a Mudslide — before driving. She said she was involved in a crash and had left the scene, according to the report.
After her arrest, officers took Ramirez to the 
Gainesville Police Department for a breath test. She had a blood alcohol content of .247 and .256, according to the report. Splitz management de-clined to comment on the incident. Ramirez could not be reached for comment as of press time. 
Police arrested her on DUI and hit-and-run 
charges. Officers took her to the Alachua County Jail, where she was released at about 1:15 p.m. Monday on her own recognizance.GNV woman 
charged with DUI, hit and run
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
local man Sunday afternoon af-
ter he reportedly stabbed another man over a fight about cigarettes.
At about 2 p.m. at Grace Mar-
ketplace, Reginald Climpson, 55, began arguing with Aaron Rus-sell III over who owned a pack of cigarettes. 
Russell hit Climpson in the 
face before Climpson pulled out 
a 4-inch pocket knife, according 
to a police report.
Climpson then stabbed Rus-
sell multiple times in the chest and once above the eye, accord-
ing to the report.
When police arrived, Russell 
had several small stab wounds on his torso, neck and hands. 
He also had 
one small stab wound above 
his right eye as 
well as swelling 
and a cut on his 
left eye, accord-
ing to the report.
A witness told police he saw Russell grab Climpson by the throat before the two began to 
punch each other, according to 
the report. 
He didn’t see Climpson’s 
knife but did see Russell covered in blood after the fight.
After his arrest, Climpson told 
police he got into a fist fight with 
Russell but did not stab him or 
use a knife, according to the re-port.
Russell’s injuries were non-
life-threatening, Gainesville Po-
lice spokesman Officer Ben To-
bias wrote in an email.
Police arrested Climpson on 
a charge of aggravated battery. Officers took him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he remained 
as of press time in lieu of a 
$10,000 bond.Local man stabbed following fight about pack of cigarettes
Climpson
TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Pictured is Adaobi Ugochukwu, a 22-year-old UF biochemistry senior, who was diagnosed with systemic 
lupus erythematosus, an autoimmune disease, at age 15. Ugochukwu partnered with the Lupus Foun -
dation of Florida to create a support group for people living with lupus in Gainesville. 
CAMPUS
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
When the bell rang, chairs 
scraped and children rushed to 
leave. Yet Adaobi Ugochukwu sat at her desk, her eyes focused on the clock.
Tick-tock. Her body burned. 
Tick-tock. Her legs were locked.
She tried to stand in the empty 
classroom, but her 90-pound body was heavy.
She knew she had to move, or 
people would start to ask the ques-tions she didn’t have answers for, or worse: They would bully her.
The 12-year-old slowly rose.Then came the pain. She tried not 
to cry, but with each step she felt her 
bones grind together.  
She didn’t know lupus was the 
mysterious sickness that coursed 
throughout her body until she was diagnosed at 15.
Ugochukwu, now 22, has sys-
temic lupus erythematosus, an auto-immune disease that can attack any part of the body and lead to swelling 
and tissue damage.
According to the Lupus Founda-
tion of America, she suffers along 
with 1.5 million people in the U.S. who have lupus.
To help others with similar strug-
gles, Ugochukwu, a UF biochemis-try senior, partnered with the Lupus Foundation of Florida to create a 
lupus support group in Gainesville.The Lupus Foundation of Florida 
will host a seminar at UF Shands 
Cancer Hospital Auxiliary Confer-ence Room from 8:30 a.m. to noon 
Saturday. Ugochukwu will be part 
of a patient panel to discuss living with lupus.
The last time Gainesville had a 
lupus support group was five years ago, said Linda Ruescher, program director of the Lupus Foundation of Florida. 
Ugochukwu waited several 
years to start the support group be-cause of her health issues.
When she was a freshman, a 
massive flare occurred and sent her to the hospital. The disease attacked her legs and caused swelling and massive joint pain that led to pyo-derma, which caused large ulcers.
“Once you’re ill and sick, you’re 
a prisoner in your own body,” she said.
It took special remicade infu-
sions to help suppress the immune system before the pyoderma could be treated.
Each infusion cost about $10,000, 
and it was covered by Johnson and Johnson Patient Assistance Founda-
tion. She took the infusions for about 
two years and is currently on oral medications to stop swelling and ease muscle and joint pain.
She thought of her little sister 
while she was treated for 14 weeks at Shands. She couldn’t leave On-yeka.“My sister would just be bro-
ken,” she said she was thinking. “I have to get better — it wouldn’t be fair to Onyeka.”
Her dimpled baby-face hides the last 10 years of suffering.
“I can put on a smile when I’m 
going through pain,” she said.
For now she’s focusing on study-
ing for the MCAT to work toward becoming a doctor, starting lupus research and leading the support group she hopes to get up and run-ning in May — Lupus Awareness 
Month.
Student uses personal experience to increase lupus supportSTAFF REPORT
UF is teeming with brilliant people work-
ing on cutting-edge technology that saves 
lives, reveals mysteries and solves problems. We’re here to share the latest in UF’s advance-ments, research and studies.
Use but Don’t AbusePrescription drug abuse is common in 
Florida, but the number of deaths have decreased yearly since 2010. While this is promising, UF College of Medicine re-searchers say it’s important to monitor abuse, and, to do so, have partnered with the state’s Prescription Drug Monitoring 
Program.
The research team believes the decline 
stems from the increase in the number of 
health care providers using the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program.Florida’s Prescription Drug Monitoring 
Program became a law in 2009, and it moni-
tors individuals’ controlled-substance pre-
scriptions and provides important and up-to-date data regarding prescribing trends in Florida.
“UF is working side-by-side with the 
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to detect new trends and inform a multidisci-plinary team to effectively prevent prescrip-tion drug abuse, which can in turn decrease 
overdoses and deaths,” said Chris Delcher, 
co-principal investigator and UF assistant professor of health outcomes and policy.
One of the initiatives is analyzing feed-
back from health care providers who use the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program daily. Researchers will also help create maps that will show where controlled sub-stances are prescribed at higher rates than 
expected based on a demographic.Xs and Ys
UF researchers are working on a late-
stage clinical trial to help people with Duchenne, which is the most common form of muscular dystrophy. Patients with this form of muscular dystrophy typically lose walking ability by age 12 and often only live to their 20s.
This form of muscular dystrophy oc-
curs when a faulty gene on the X chromo-some prevents the body’s production of 
a protein called dystrophin, which helps 
keep muscles intact and protects them from injury.
UF Health could get up to $1.6 million 
from Sarepta Therapeutics to be a site for 
the third phase of the trial. The clinical trial 
is of the drug called eteplirsen, which can help extend the length of time patients with the disease can walk compared to a control 
group.Sickly Snails
UF scientists discovered that a rare parasite 
that can cause sickness in humans and animals is found in more species of snails in Florida than previously thought.
In a study published online this month in 
the Journal of Parasitology, researchers found the rat lungworm, a parasite common in Ha-waii, may now be established in South Florida. People and pets who eat snails are at risk, and it is also important to know how it arrived.
“Determining the geographic distribution 
of this parasite in Florida is important due to the hazards to human health,” said Heather Walden, a professor at UF’s College of Veteri-nary Medicine and lead author of the study.
The parasite produces a rare and possibly 
fatal form of meningitis in people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-vention. Its hosts include rats and gastropods, 
such as snails.
Research roundup: drug abuse; muscular dystrophy; snails
 UF IS LOOKING INTO EXPANDING 
COMPOSTING ON CAMPUS.
PAIGE LEVIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twenty-two million pounds: That’s the 
weight of about 1,100 average-sized el-
ephants, 515 full school buses or 71 average houses.
It’s also the amount of uneaten food college 
campuses collectively throw out each year, ac-cording to the Food Recovery Network.
Colleges around the country have in-
creased efforts to combat food waste recently, and UF is no exception.
UF initiatives include trayless dining at 
select locations, a reusable cup, mug and to-go container program, compostable utensils, coffee ground and lemon rind composting, recycling and a food-waste tracking system.
David Frank, Gator Dining Services sus-
tainability manager, wrote in an email that food products are tracked from the moment they enter the facility to when they are eaten or thrown away to reduce waste at the source.
“This process allows us to further analyze 
and understand sources of surplus and ar-eas of intervention to reduce organic waste,” Frank wrote.
Gator Dining has composted about 267 
tons of food waste since March 2014, he said. They compost pre- and post-consumer food waste at Gator Corner Dining Center and the Fresh Food Company and pre-consumer food waste at the Reitz Union.Frank said Gator Dining Services is work-
ing with the university’s waste hauler, Waste Corporation of America, and the university to implement the composting program at other 
locations such as the Racquet Club, Sun Ter-
race and the Hub.
“Here at Gator Dining, we are always 
striving with each and every program we implement to minimize the impact of our ser-vices to the university, the community and the environment,” he said.
Jillian Samowitz, a UF sustainability stud-ies freshman, said she thinks these methods are effective because they bring a new sense of awareness.
“Providing these alternatives in a public 
setting like the dining halls shows students that there are options,” Samowitz, 19, said.
Wynn Calder, co-director of the Associa-
tion of University Leaders for a Sustainable Future, said the focus on food sustainability has gotten stronger in the past 10 years.
Calder said the key to reducing campus 
food waste is redesigning the dining halls. By implementing trayless dining, students take 
less food because they can only hold so much 
on a plate, he said.
“Most of us are profoundly ignorant about 
the complexities of the food system,” he said, “and it’s scary.”
UF dining working to implement more sustainable options 
“Providing these alternatives in 
a public setting like the dining halls 
shows students that there are options.”
Jillian Samowitz
sustainability studentTUESDAY,  MARCH 17, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Housing for Homeless Veterans!
Volunteers of America offers housing for 
homeless veterans or those at risk of becom-ing homeless in a warm and supportive envi-ronment. If you or anyone you know may ben-efit from our program, please contact Woody at 352-642-8313 for more information. 
Two bedrooms with all utilities included!    
3-17-15-7-1
TWO ROOMS WITH BATH AND WALK-IN CLOSET FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. UNIT HAS FURNISHED KITCHEN AND A WASHER/DRYER.$400.00 PER MONTH RENT INCLUDES HIGH SPEED INTERNET AND USE OF COMMON AREA IN THE UNIT. REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT $400.00.Please contact Ram at 352-514-7250.    3-19-15-3-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   3-20-15-17-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilitiesOaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1600 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils & deposit. Available now. Share with male student. Call 904-608-7609    3-18-15-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
11, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY,  MARCH 17, 2015
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12Sell your running or not running carUp to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
 TUESDAY,  MARCH 17, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 12
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors
Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers. Apply today at 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html!
3-17-15-7-14
PT Job with UIFT Web Service. Quick learnerWeb Design experience (HTML, CSS)15-20 hrs/week, $15/hr.Assisting Web Developers migrate content into new system.email resume to Kim Standifer, standik@ufl.edu   3-18-7-14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit gals/guys for part time driver position.  Strong student or recent graduate pre-ferred. +21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/hr. Email cover letter and resume to gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com    3-17-15-5-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
The Towering Harvard HandSign Language Assistant
352-375-8606                         3-23-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: JEWELRY
Oaks Mall - Belk Parking area. Found on 
Wednesday afternoon. Call to ID 352-450-0466 
3-17-3-25
TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORGTebow works out with Eagles
Former UF quarterback Tim Tebow worked out with 
the Philadelphia Eagles on Monday. They do not plan to sign him at this time.
Bryan Shelton and the UF men’s golf team looks to continue its recent win streak. Read the story on page 15.MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan_Moriarty
Like any new head coach at 
any college football program 
across the country, one of the 
first, and often the most challeng-
ing, tasks for the new head hon-cho isn’t installing a new offense. 
Before a new head coach can 
dream of winning a champion-ship, one has to get ones new crop of players to buy into ones 
new vision for the program. 
It’s a phrase heard a lot 
throughout the college football 
landscape when describing a coaching change. 
It doesn’t happen overnight.It’s a process. From a coach’s perspective, 
it means your players put their 
faith in you and what you want 
to accomplish. 
It means most of these play-
ers, who previously bought into a different man’s vision, choose to trust you and what you want to do.
Day 1 of Spring football for 
the Florida Gators is in the books, 
and it was one of the first steps  
for first-year UF head coach Jim McElwain to accomplish that task. 
For McElwain, buying in is 
more about the individual play-ers rather than himself.
“I don’t have any real magic 
potions here,” McElwain said. 
“The key is invest in yourself, 
give of yourself for the benefit of others and you know what, be ac-countable for everything you do. 
Your actions speak louder than 
words, man. We’ll see it on film, we’ll coach it on film. The guys who learn to do what’s right, pretty good chance they’ll play.”
Redshirt sophomore Antonio 
Riles, one of just seven active of-fensive lineman on scholarship this spring, is confident the cul-
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida head football coach Jim McElwain speaks during a press conference previewing Spring foot-
ball practice on March 10 in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. UF held its first of 15 practices on Monday.
UF opens Spring practice with new coach, new faces
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
While one chapter of the 
UF gymnastics team’s jour-
ney is over, the importance 
of the next chapter’s first few 
pages is surprisingly similar.
With the regular season in 
the books, the Gators turn to the postseason, starting with the Southeastern Conference 
Championships Saturday in 
Duluth, Georgia.
Florida enters as the top 
seed and will be competing against the SEC’s best — as well as the nation’s best.
“Our conference is, I feel, 
the strongest and most chal-lenging in the country,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “Nine out of the last 10 na-tional championships were 
won by an SEC school, so it 
speaks volumes right there about how tough our confer-ence is.”
But even though most of 
the same teams that will com-pete for the NCAA Champi-onship will be in Duluth this weekend, don’t pencil in the 
same results.
In fact, of those nine na-
tional titles won by SEC 
schools in the last decade, SEC Championship 
field filled with top 
gymnasts in nation
UF GymnasticsBASEBALL
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Florida baseball has found success against Flori-
da State in recent years.
The Gators have won four straight meetings and 
seven of the last nine matchups against the Semi-noles over the last three years, outscoring them a combined 40-17 in that span.
No. 2 Florida (18-3) looks to continue that trend 
tonight when it hosts No. 13 Florida State (17-4) at 7 in the first of three games to be played this season.
“Florida State, obviously even though they’re 
not in the (Southeastern Conference), it’s a huge ri-valry,” UF outfielder Harrison Bader said. 
“We’re gonna come at them guns ablazing ready 
to rock and treat them just like any other game.”
Both UF and FSU are on hot streaks right now.The Gators have won eight of their last nine and 
13 of their last fifteen.
The Seminoles have won 13 of their last 14 con-
tests — the lone loss coming in a 4-1 decision to Wake Forest on Friday.
And while FSU does not have a batter in its start-
ing lineup hitting better than .300 this season, the Seminoles are seventh in the country with a .419 on-base percentage.
Its top nine batters all have at least a .250 batting 
average and seven have a slugging mark of at least .421.
“Same Florida State every year,” said UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan, who is 12-13 overall against FSU during his eight-year tenure as Florida’s head 
coach. 
“Their record’s always really good. … It’ll be a 
good game.”
Eric Hanhold will start on the mound for UF 
against FSU.
The junior right-handed pitcher is 1-0 on the 
year, tossing four scoreless innings in three appear-
ances.
“They’ll want to win. We’ll 
want to win. It’s a pride game,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
“It’s a game for people to step 
up and it’s always a fun game. I know they’re looking forward to 
it.
Notes: Florida is 3-2 against 
ranked opponents this season. 
FSU is 2-0. 
The Gators have started at least three freshmen 
in every game this season and the first-year duo of 
Dalton Guthrie and J.J. Schwarz have started all 21 games.
Bader leads Florida in slugging percentage 
(.898), on-base percentage (.557), batting average (.424), total bases (53), RBIs (24), walks (17) and home runs (seven). 
All of Bader’s numbers rank in the top-five of the 
SEC in their respective categories.Florida hosts Florida State tonight
Bader
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 16
SEE GYM, PAGE 16Players are buying in
Quotable
“Have y’all filled out your brackets yet?” 
Jim McElwain  
UF head football coach
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
The word lose, in any form, 
isn’t one that has typically been 
tossed around Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium since the lacrosse team’s 
conception in 2010. 
The Gators have had a win-
ning culture since the program’s 
beginning. 
In fact, Florida has only lost 
back-to-back games three times, 
ever.
Last week was the third occur-
rence.
Coming off of an overtime 
loss to No. 5 Syracuse on Tues-
day and a 
10-goal de-
feat to No. 1 Maryland 
on Saturday, No. 7 Florida (6-3) will look to right the ship tonight 
as it hosts No. 14 Stony Brook (5-
0) at 6:30.
Possession and draw controls 
are two aspects of the game the 
Gators intend to improve. 
At Sunday’s practice, the team 
had a competition to see who 
could win the most draw controls — the center-field faceoff after 
each goal. 
According to sophomore Sam-
mi Burgess, junior attacker Dev-
on Schneider won the contest. 
Schneider stands at 6-foot-2, 
yet surprisingly only has three draw controls so far this season.
So, Florida is moving on. Its 
tough week of games is behind it and the Gators are focused on 
learning from those losses and 
improving on their weaknesses.
Junior Sydney DuPre said the 
Gators look to get back to their 
winning ways by working hard 
in practice.
“I think bringing back a blue-
collar mentality. We’re just work-ing hard,” DuPre said. “I think 
we kind of got lackadaisical be-
cause we came in this year think-ing ‘we’re gonna be great, we only lost one senior,’ and I think 
we kind of lost that underdog 
mentality that we had last year and I think bringing that back will definitely help us.”  
Florida isn’t used to losing 
like it has this season. 
Granted, they have only lost 
three games and they have each been to teams ranked in the 
top five, but the Gators believe 
they’re better than that. 
“This team is one that is will-
ing to get at it,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “They’re not hang-
ing their heads, they’re not pout-
ing. They’re looking to watch film. They want to know what went wrong, and I think that says 
a lot about them as a team.”
Despite the recent slide, Flor-
ida is still the seventh-ranked team in the nation and has a good 
chance of winning the Big East and making a run in the NCAA Tournament. 
It won’t be easy, though.Stony Brook comes into to-
night’s game with only 23 goals allowed all season, the least among any team in the country. 
The Gators are second in the 
nation with 135 goals scored this 
year. Something’s got to give.
Florida is ready for its next 
test, having gained what it could from its last two games.
“Once we’ve learned from 
(the losses), like today, I think it’s 
time to move on,” Burgess said 
at practice on Monday, “move 
forward and focus on what’s ahead.”
JORDAN MCPHERSON and LUIS TORRES
Alligator Staff Writers
@J_McPherson1126, @LFTorresIII
With Spring football practice under-
way, one of first-year head coach Jim McElwain’s goals is to give players valu-
able playing experience.
And for this year’s Gators, no position 
needs more experience than the offensive 
line.
Florida’s offensive line has just seven 
healthy scholarship athletes.
But after the first of 15 Spring practices 
concluded on Monday, McElwain is any-thing but worried.
“I see some eager guys out there,” McEl-
wain said. “Even as thin as we were in the offensive line from a body count, you had guys that believed, you know what, we’ve got to get this going together.”
One of those hungry to get into the ro-
tation is guard Antonio Riles. 
The redshirt sophomore has played in 
four games in his two-year career at Flor-
ida.
He redshirted his freshman season, 
winning the Most Valuable Offensive 
Scout Team Award as a member of the 
scout team. 
Riles took a back seat on the offensive 
line last season having the chance to learn 
from potential NFL players.
“Last year, you know, I had to sit back 
and watch those guys and that’s exactly what I needed,” Riles said. “To watch some great guys in front of me, all my big brothers Trent (Brown), Max (Garcia), all those guys. Chaz (Green), all those cats.”
“That’s a blessing for those guys to be 
in front of me. So I know the type of men-tality I have to have to be a successful of-fensive lineman. That’s what I’m trying to do. Slow the game down as much as I can so I can do that.”
With the return of offensive line coach 
Mike Summers, who is the only coach McElwain retained from the previous re-gime, Riles knows firsthand how much Summers will push him to get the most 
out of his play.
“He’s the one that helped me in that 
transition,” Riles said. “He expects great-
ness in everything you do. That’s the kind of coach you gotta have. … I just gotta plug 
all the pieces together, and that’s what I’ve 
been working on, and (Summers) has most definitely been helping me get that down.”
The only two players with significant 
playing experience along the offensive line 
are tackles David Sharpe and Rod Johnson. 
Both will be expected to lead the line in 
the spring and teach the younger linemen 
what Summers expects of them.  
“It’s definitely a big leadership role 
and definitely for these guys coming in we have to take them under our wing and teach them and tell them about coach Sum-mers,” Sharpe said. “He’s a great coach. 
He’s definitely got the best interests for 
them and their future.”
McElwain said the offensive line will be 
tested throughout practice, especially at the hands of Florida’s defensive line.
UF lost two cogs on the defensive side 
of the ball to the NFL Draft — Dante Fowl-er Jr. and Darious Cummings — but they do return four defensive linemen who 
were responsible for 13.5 of UF’s 30 sacks 
last year.
“Our speed on defense is really good,” 
McElwain said. “No doubt about it.”
Senior defensive lineman Jon Bullard, 
who recorded a career-high 52 tackles in addition to 2.5 sacks in 2014, said while it will be tough for one player to replace Fowler alone, he knows he needs to step 
up his own game.
“That’s just something I’ve got to take 
on my back and make the most out of it,” 
Bullard said. “When they need something or need a play, I need to be the guy to 
come through.”14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Sophomore attacker Sammi Burgess runs around a San Diego State player during the Gators’ 17-7 
win against the Aztecs on Feb. 20 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. No. 7 Florida is looking to rebound from its current two-game losing streak when it hosts No. 14 Stony Brook tonight.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF players huddle during the Gators’ first Spring practice of 2015 on Monday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Florida’s only has seven active scholarship offensive linemen on its roster.
Florida looking ahead, not focusing on recent losses 
FOOTBALLGators retooling offensive line as Spring practice commencesUF LacrosseCAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer@CayUnderwood
After dropping back-to-back 
matches against No. 14 Vanderbilt 
and No. 10 Ohio State, the No. 18 
Gators got their groove back in the 
Southeastern Conference.
Florida defeated Mississippi 
State 4-1 on Friday night and then 
came back Sunday afternoon to de-
feat Alabama 4-2.
Florida sits at 3-2 in conference 
and 8-5 overall and will take on the Arkansas Razorbacks, who just 
dropped their second SEC match to 
Ole Miss last Thursday in Oxford, Mississippi.
In UF’s 2013-14 season, Florida 
ended with an 18-10 overall record, with one of the losses coming at the hands of the Razorbacks. 
Coach Bryan Shelton feels he 
may have been part of the reason 
Florida tasted defeat last season. 
“I think it all comes down to 
your preparation,” Shelton said. 
“Last year I had to look at myself 
in the mirror and say I didn’t do 
a great job at preparing our guys for that match but I also give them credit for how well they played last year. So this year we’re doing some 
things differently in our prepara-
tion. We’ll certainly go in there ready to go and I think we will real-ly make sure our guys understand their game plans.”
Although all three of the points 
earned last year were by returning players — Maxx Lipman, Diego Hi-dalgo and Elliot Orkin — this year’s lineup is almost completely differ-ent.
But Orkin has shown some of the most improvement across the board. 
Orkin swept his opponent Sun-
day afternoon (6-0, 6-0) and Shelton 
believes he has only gotten better from last season and will have no 
problem with his matchup on Fri-day.
“He’s a tough kid, period,” Shel-
ton said. “It comes down again to his preparation, to putting your time in on the court and doing those things that a lot of people don’t see, he’s not the guy whose parading 
around telling you all the works 
he’s doing but he’s doing it in al-most every area that you can see the guy has made improvements.”
The Razorbacks return just one 
player who faced the Gators in its 2013-2014 season — sophomore Jo-han den Toom. 
All but one of Florida’s victo-
ries began with a doubles point to set the pace for the Gators in each match.
Which can only mean one thing 
— clinching the doubles point is a key component of Florida’s success.
“We’ve really worked hard on 
our doubles play,” Shelton said. “I felt like we had three teams out 
there who were competing well 
this weekend for us and we have had one (team), sometimes two (teams), but its been a bit of a chal-
lenge to get all three teams on the 
same page. Finally I think we’re in a good place there.”TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Diego Hidalgo celebrates after clinching Florida’s 4-1 win against Mississippi State on Friday at the 
Ring Tennis Complex. The Gators are on a two-game win streak after defeating both the Bulldogs and Alabama last weekend.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
J.D. Tomlinson hits the ball during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. Tomlinson has shot nine consecutive rounds at or under par.
GOLF
RYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer@RyanSummers18
The UF men’s golf team has 
had seven different starting line-
ups in eight tournaments this 
season under the direction of 
first-year coach JC Deacon.
As the team heads to States-
boro, Georgia, to take part in the 
Chris Schenkel Invitational, fans 
could possibly see an eighth dif-ferent starting five.
This week, the athletes will be 
graded on their attitudes instead 
of their statistical performances.
“The only thing I care about 
is the guys taking care of the de-tails in their life, doing the little 
things right and having a good attitude,” Deacon said. “They can control all those things, and we haven’t been doing that well. And frankly I’ve had enough of 
it. So we’re just going to base 
our performance off that, I’m not worried about the score and the results. They’re going to be 
graded on their attitudes, they 
know that and we’ll see how they react.”
Senior Thomas Stewart, who 
hadn’t played in a tournament 
since October, filled the five-spot 
in the lineup last week at the Seminole Intercollegiate.Coach Deacon said Stewart 
earned his spot in a qualifying tournament held between the 
team during the week, and Dea-
con thinks competition between the athletes is helping the team improve.
“As a coach that’s your dream, 
to see someone who really wasn’t in the running to be picked, stepped up and beat everyone to earn his spot,” Deacon said. 
“I think that as a player that 
is how you can really develop confidence when you go and you earn it, no one gives you any-
thing and you step up and play 
the performance that you have to to get that spot. That’s where confidence truly comes from, is earning it.”
The confidence of the team has 
been building through the first half of March, but Deacon said Florida is still just playing aver-
age golf and needs to step it up 
as a group.
The Gators finished seventh 
at the Seminole Intercollegiate — their worst finish since Octo-
ber —  after finishing in the top-
five in four tournaments in a row heading into the tournament. 
Senior J.D. Tomlinson has 
been consistent for the team, stringing together nine rounds shooting at-par or better. 
During that span, Tomlin-
son finished with a share of the 
runner-up spot at Florida’s home 
event — the SunTrust Gator In-vitational — along with a sixth-place finish in Arizona and a 
share of ninth last weekend. 
The Gators return to action 
Friday, and the schedule has 
allowed for little practice in Gainesville.
Deacon says that three tourna-
ments in consecutive weekends are tough, but the players know what they signed up for.
“It’s going to be busy and it’s 
going to be tough sometimes, and I’m starting to learn whose rising to the top through all this,” Dea-con said. “Adversity as a coach is a great thing, you learn the most 
about your players through that. 
And right now, especially this week, I’m really going to find out what this team is all about.”Lineup still in flux as Gators prepare 
for third tourney in as many weeksTENNISFlorida looking to veterans to keep win streak going
“As a coach that’s your 
dream, to see someone who 
really wasn’t in the running 
to be picked, stepped up 
and beat everyone to earn 
his spot.”
JC Deacon
UF men’s golf coach16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator 
UF coach Rhonda Faehn celebrates with junior Bridget Sloan during Florida’s 197.90-193.40 win against 
Texas Woman’s University on Friday in the O’Connell Center. The Gators are set to compete in the Southeast-ern Conference Championships on Saturday in Duluth, Georgia.
Faehn: SEC title doesn’t guarantee national championship
four were won by a school that 
didn’t win the SEC title.
Florida’s second national 
title in 2014 is one of those four.
In other words, if you have 
aspirations for an NCAA title, 
the SEC Championships have 
little to no importance.
The Gators realize this, al-
though they still plan on hav-ing their school’s name written on the trophy this weekend.
“What happens at the SECs 
is not always indicative of what happens at the national championship,” Faehn said. 
“However, we want to go 
out there and we want to win 
the SEC Championship. We 
want to do our absolute best and come away with that ti-tle.”
The key part there, though, 
is doing their absolute best. While they hope the end re-sult is a conference crown, the manner in which they perform 
is far more important for their 
ultimate goal.
And with Florida still try-
ing to get lineup consistency 
as the climax of its story nears, 
this weekend serves as a cru-cial trial run for the national stage.
“Right now, the importance 
is to focus on our athletes and what they’re going to be per-forming and what they’re go-ing to be doing,” Faehn said.
In Florida’s quest for a 
place in the history books as only the third school to ever win three or more consecutive 
championships, winning an 
SEC title isn’t a big priority.
But with that said, it 
wouldn’t be a bad side note.
“There’s no doubt we want 
to win the national champi-onship,” Faehn said, “but the 
SEC is nice along the way, as 
well.”GYM , from page 13
Gators practicing at a faster pace in Spring under McElwain
ture shift is underway. 
“Of course. How could you not? He’s 
a great coach,” Riles said. “We’re starting 
to love him, we’re starting to be around 
him a little more and that’s what we need. We’re excited about the way things are go-ing. Of course it’s a big transition for us, 
but I think everyone is buying in.”The obvious change McElwain brings 
to Gainesville is his pro-style offensive at-
tack, which saw success at Alabama and 
most recently at Colorado State.
While installing the offense is one of the 
primary focuses for the Spring, McElwain 
says that a sense of trust needs to be met ﬁ  rst and foremost before actual installa-
tion can begin.
“It’s one of those things where guys ... 
know what you’re doing (and) they trust you,” McElwain said. 
“And so there’s a lot that that needs to 
continue to work at every position—de-velop trust and then once they develop 
trust in them then you’ve got a chance to be a leader.” 
171 days. That’s how many days left until Flori-
da kicks off against New Mexico State on Sept. 5 to ofﬁ  cially start the 2015 season. 
More importantly for McElwain, though, it’s 171 days to get the players to fully believe in the process.
Convincing a team to buy in isn’t an in-
stantaneous process, but thanks to spring football, McElwain has a chance to move closer to fully accomplishing that job.
“I like the way the guys have come to-
gether, the competition between the units, 
understanding that each and every play is 
an opportunity to get better,” McElwain said. FOOTBALL , from page 13“What happens at 
the SECs is not always 
indicative of what 
happens at the national 
championship.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF Gymnastics coach 