We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaFRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015Sonja Larson, 18, had just fin-
ished her first summer of classes at 
UF. As a second-semester freshman, 
she was studying science and pre-
engineering. 
She managed the girl’s varsity 
basketball team in high school. Ac-
cording to Alligator archives, her 
mother, Ada, described her as wil-lowy, popular and quiet. 
She said she carried Larson’s 
Bible with her to church and noted 
that Psalms 1 through 3 were high-
lighted.
•   •   •
Christina “Christi” Powell, 17, 
had also spent the summer taking classes at UF as a freshman. She 
was her high school yearbook editor 
and hoped to pursue architecture. Her mother, Pat Powell, remem-bered her daughter as a nice and 
joyful person during a memorial 
service Tuesday.
“When she was on the phone 
with one of her friends and I’d be 
in the kitchen cooking, I could hear her howling with laughter, which 
also made me laugh,” Powell said.
Christi knew her 11 nieces and 
nephews, spending time with them 
before she left for college, her mother said. Her youngest neph-
ew, born seven months after her 
death, was named Christian in her memory.
•   •   •
Christa Leigh Hoyt, 18, was a 
student at Santa Fe Community College in August 1990. A records 
clerk for the Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Office, she hoped to enter a ca-reer in law enforcement.
“Christa was an achiever,” said 
her stepmother, Dianna Hoyt. “She wanted to strive for perfection.”
Because of her constant and 
warm smile, her friends called her “Glowworm,” Hoyt said.
•   •   •
Manuel “Manny” Taboada, 23, 
had just graduated from Santa Fe 
Community College and was begin-ning his junior year as an architec-ture student at UF. His brother, Ma-
rio, said Manny was excited to start 
school as a Gator.
“He was beside himself to be 
here,” Taboada said. “I think he was going to make a name for himself.”
“He had a lot of dreams,” he said, 
remembering his brother as an out-going and vibrant person.
Taboada had played high school 
football in addition to serving as VOLUME 110 ISSUE 5
SEE STUDENTS,  PAGE 5Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
A plaque that reads “Remember August 1990” stands in the median of Southwest 34th Street. Behind it stands five trees with white 
ribbons and the names of the five students killed by Danny Rolling. This week marked the 25th anniversary of the murders.
By Emily Cochrane 
and Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org
In front of the wall, there’s a plaque.
It’s a square of quiet permanence, al-
most completely hidden under a layer of matted grass.
Weathered bronze on a paint-spattered 
sidewalk next to Southwest 34th Street, it accompanies a 25-year-old expanse of black paint.
Both carry five names — one etched in 
bronze and the other painted in white.
Sonja Larson. Christina Powell. Christa 
Hoyt. Tracy Paules. Manuel Taboada.
The wall commands: Remember.The plaque promises: You will never be 
forgotten.
This week reopened a grim chapter of 
Gainesville’s history from 25 years ago, when five students were murdered in their college town in August 1990 — a chapter unknown to most current UF students.
“A grip of fear”
August 1990 was supposed to be the 
start of a new era at UF.
About 36,500 students came to campus 
ready for the start of another year. John V. Lombardi was getting ready for his first se-
mester as the university’s ninth president. 
Steve Spurrier was preparing for his first season as the Florida Gators head football coach, the start of a dynasty.
But any sense of optimism quickly 
turned to terror on Aug. 26.
The Sunday before classes were set to 
begin, the Gainesville community learned 
that UF freshmen roommates Sonja Lar-
son, 18, and Christina Powell, 17, were found dead and mutilated in their apart-ment just south of campus.
Within 48 hours, 18-year-old Christa 
Hoyt, a Santa Fe Community College stu-dent, and two more UF students — Tracy Paules and Manuel Taboada, both 23 — were killed as well.
“Each of them was unique, special and brought such promise to our world,” Sher-iff Sadie Darnell said during a memorial service Tuesday. Darnell was the spokes-woman for Gainesville Police Department in 1990. “They were murdered. There are no words to explain why.”
Gainesville had a serial killer on its 
hands, a man later identified as Danny Harold Rolling. Arrested in Ocala on a burglary charge about two weeks after the murders, he was connected to the murder crime scenes by DNA sampling in Novem-ber 1991. Rolling pleaded guilty to all five murders on Feb. 15, 1994, and was sen-tenced to the death penalty on March 24, 1994. He was executed via lethal injection 
on Oct. 25, 2006.
While the college town tried to compre-
hend what had occurred, students arriving 
at UF were now scared for their lives. Gainesville murder victims 
remembered after 25 years
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pictured is a plaque below the mural on the 34th Street wall. The part not 
covered by debris reads “You will never be forgotten. ”
Hoyt
Larson
Paules
Powell
T aboada
SEE REMEMBER,  PAGE 4Lives taken 
too soon ‘ALL IS WELL’Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Welcome back party
Have the summertime blues 
gotten to you? UF’s Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures and 
Institute of Black Culture invite you to a Welcome/Bienvenida Block Party today from 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. Come out to the 
IBC and La Casita on 1510 W. University Ave., next to Chipotle, and enjoy some free food, mu-sic, carnival games and more. 
The event is open to the public 
and completely free of charge. For more information find the event page at facebook.com/
events/1614374718833314/.
GRR Swamp City Sirens vs. Palm 
Coast Roller Derby
Come cheer on the Swamp City 
Sirens Saturday at the Alachua 
County Fairgrounds  as they take on Palm Coast Roller Derby in the last home bout of the 
2015 season. As a bonus, the 
Ocala Cannibal Roller Derby ju-nior team, the Ocala Carnivores, will show off their skills for you during halftime. Doors open at 6 
p.m. The event starts at 7 p.m. 
Tickets are $8 in advance and $10 at the door. Tickets can be purchased at brownpapertick-
ets.com, Volta Coffee, Sweet 
Dreams, Wild Iris Books or from your favorite derby girl. As al-ways, kids 12 and under get in free. 
FED Food Company will be pro-
viding delicious goodies for you, and we will also have drinks available for cash or credit. After 
the bout, join us at Gainesville 
House Of Beer for our after par-ty.Free Tuesday Night Stand Up 
ComedyFree stand-up comedy featur-ing UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals every Tuesday at 9 p.m. at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret in down-
town. The show features profes-sional comedians and amateur comics alike tearing up the stage. 
Feeling funny? Show up before 9 
p.m. and sign up for our comedy open mic. A comedy workshop at 8 p.m. will be hosted by local pros. Facebook: facebook.com/
gainesvillecomedyshowcase.
GatorNights
GatorNights will kick off the Fall semester with Hidden Stages, a 
music festival-themed event, to-night from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature live music from Evan 
Taylor and Duke, free food, hen-
na tattoos and more. GatorNights will also be hosting showings of the movie “Jurassic 
World” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with a comedy show from Jerrod Carmichael, supporting actor in the movie 
“Neighbors” and star of NBC’s 
“The Carmichael Show.”
Gay Movie Night
Gay Movie Night premires to-night at 7:30 p.m. at Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St. This screwball comedy follows a young gay couple who 
discover a secret room filled 
with cash while house-sitting for celebrity friends. When their friends die under 
mysterious circumstances while 
overseas, can they make a clean getaway with the money? Gay Movie Night is a free service of 
the Pride Community Center. A 
$2 donation is requested to help cover cost of snacks.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events and 
keep them 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
NATIONAL
TS Erika kills four in Dominica; 
takes aim at Puerto Rico
ROSEAU, Dominica (AP) — Rescue crews fanned across Dominica late Thursday to search for missing and injured people after Tropical Storm Erika pummeled the eastern Caribbean island, unleashing landslides and killing at least four people. The storm, which forecasters said could reach Florida as a hurricane on Monday, dumped 15 inches of rain on the small island as it spun west toward 
Puerto Rico.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 5
HIGH  88° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Build a career developing software that is used every day by 
hundreds, thousands, or even millions of people...
@MindtreeFlorida Facebook.com/MindtreeFlorida  @MindtreeFlorida
 @MindtreeFlorida
  www.mindtree.comcome code with us!STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Ariana Figueroa 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
A new party has emerged with 
promises to overcome gridlock in 
the Student Senate chambers.
Senator Chris Boyett created 
Impact party, which is a combina-
tion of members from both Swamp 
and Access parties, to clear road-blocks in Senate. In addition to Boyett, former Director of Exter-nal Affairs Blake Murphy, former Access Sen. Saneh Ste. Claire and former Swamp Sen. Susan Web-ster make up the party.
But some senators are skepti-
cal, seeing it as a ploy to rebrand Swamp and erase an election de-feat.
      
In Summer, little was accom-
plished in the Senate chambers due to party-line voting. With the success of Access party taking the executive ticket in Spring and a 
large portion of Senate seats, there 
was a two-party system in Student Government again.
Six of the 13 agency head po-
sitions — Accent chairperson, Action SG chairperson, Chomp the Vote director, External Affairs director, SG Productions chairper-son and SG Productions comptrol-
ler — remained vacant for 105 
days.In July, motions were made 
to postpone the ﬁ  rst reading of 
reforms to the Student Body stat-
utes after the Senate received the 
papers only 27 hours before the meeting. Two of these reforms — the 500 and 700 codes — were ve-toed Tuesday by SG Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines because she said the codes were unconstitutional.
She vetoed the 500 codes be-
cause of a clause that would allow for three members of the Senate — the Senate president, Senate presi-dent pro-tempore and Budget and Appropriations chairperson — to vote twice for members appointed 
by the executive branch, once dur-
ing the nomination process and once during the Senate approval process.
The reforms to the 700 codes 
would have provided for a single SG-sponsored debate, which Pa-dron-Rasines said restricted the freedom of speech.
Impact party President Chris 
Boyett, former Access senator, said the party’s goal is to ﬁ  x grid-lock in the Senate by combining members from both Access and Swamp.
Boyett said he is conﬁ  dent in 
the success of his new party.
“I think that our ideas are re-
freshing,” he said.
Swamp majority leader Sen. 
Charlie Brown Jr. (Agriculture) said he agreed with the ideas of the new party. He said the Sen-ate’s purpose is to serve the Stu-dent Body, and to do that, sena-
tors must work together.
Brown said he still has to de-
cide if he will join Impact, though 
he would not discourage any of his party members from doing so.
“I do believe uniﬁ  cation is in 
order,” Brown said. “I think that the gridlock came from misunder-standings from both sides.”
But Minority party leader Mi-
chael Christ (Access, Graduate) said it’s just Swamp rebranding itself.
“I knew they were going to 
change the name right after the 
(Spring) election,” he said. “I 
guarantee that they’ll present no new ideas other than a face-lift: A new party name, a new slogan.”
      
Sometimes parties can rebrand 
to appeal to a new base of voters, said Michael McDonald, an asso-ciate professor of political science at UF.
“These rebrandings typically 
happen after losing an election,” McDonald said.
Some key Swamp members lost 
their seats when Access took the College of Liberal Arts and Scienc-es Senate seats in the Spring 2015 election. One of those was Susan Webster, but she quickly found 
her way back in the Senate cham-bers  as a replacement senator for 
District A and  has stayed an inde-pendent senator since returning.
Webster said she joined Impact 
because it will better represent students by having members from both Swamp and Access.
“I saw the gridlock between the 
two parties, and they were losing sight of the students,” Webster said. “Impact will take views from both sides of the aisle.”
She said the party is not a re-
branding of Swamp, as some members of Access may believe.
Although the party is still de-
veloping its platform, many sena-tors have expressed interest in joining Impact, she said.
“In the coming weeks as the 
campaign moves along, we’ll be announcing our platform,” Web-
ster said.
      
As Impact starts its campaign, 
Access will need to ﬁ  gure out its 
next step.
“I think the students will see 
through this just like they did 
Swamp,” Christ said. “Hopefully, 
after this Spring, they’ll get out of the way because we’ll beat them and take over the Senate.”
Christ said Access will continue 
to be a voice for students.
“They say their name is Im-
pact,” Christ said, “but in order to make an impact, you have to give access to every student.”
McDonald said Access can re-
spond in two ways: by mobiliz-ing more voters or reaching out to Swamp members.
But the number of people who 
join Impact will determine how Access will need to respond, he 
said.
“It could be that Impact has no 
impact – that it’s only four mem-
bers,” McDonald said.New party aims to clear roadblocks, raises questions 
A case of deja vu
The name is the same, 
but is the party?
While new party members say 
Impact is a clean slate, the party’s 
name has a history.
According to SG election result 
records, Impact party ﬁ  rst formed in Fall 1985, when the party won a majority of seats. The party disap-
peared after that semester. Impact 
resurfaced in Spring 2005 when it won ﬁ  ve Senate seats, but narrow-ly lost the executive ofﬁ  ces to Gator party in a runoff one week later. 
Impact won six Senate seats and 
disbanded after Fall of that year.
Impact was even registered as a 
party in Spring of 2015, but Boyett said it’s not the same party. Some left town, never to return. 
Others packed into residence halls 
and apartment buildings — some-times as many as 20 people in a room — and took shifts staying up 
through the night.
“It really felt like a grip of fear,” 
said Spencer Mann, a former lieu-
tenant for the Alachua County Sher-iff’s Ofﬁ  ce and the ofﬁ  ce’s spokes-man in 1990.
Dan McFaul, an 18-year-old 
freshman in 1990, remembers sleep-ing in a friend’s home after the at-
tacks. Armed with a baseball bat, he 
said he slept on the couch with one eye open.
“It was a very deep concern 
that kind of percolated your whole body,” he said. “I don’t think I’ve felt it since.”
McFaul, 43, now knows the 
doorway to his former home in Re-gency Oaks Apartments faces the woods where Rolling was camped out, knowledge that would have made him reconsider staying in Gainesville.
“Sometimes you just reﬂ  ect on 
it,” he said. “For folks my genera-
tion, this was emblazoned in their 
memories.”
As the case developed, Mann 
said it was pertinent the commu-nity knew that serial killings usually were not immediately solved.
“We almost had to prepare peo-
ple mentally that we were in this for the long haul,” Mann said, “so get 
ready just as we’re ready.”
Lombardi wasted no time mak-
ing sure UF was ready.
Lombardi wrote in an email that 
he, along with Student Body Presi-
dent Michael Browne, Vice Presi-dent for Student Affairs Art Sandeen and other members of administra-tion, ensured they took all security 
measures possible.Browne held open meetings for 
students to voice their concerns.
Students were told they would 
not be penalized for missing class or 
going home.
The lounge areas of residence 
halls became bedrooms for students 
who lived off campus and were 
afraid to sleep in their own bed.
And while UF ran business as 
usual, Lombardi said that looking back, everything was far from ordi-nary.
“The campus community prob-
ably never returned to normal (that semester),” Lombardi said, “as the 
trauma and shock of the terrible 
events remained constant in every-one’s mind. … Everyone who was there at the time carries a permanent and painful memory of those days.”
But Browne said it was through 
those tough times that UF became united.
“There was so much uncertain-
ty,” Browne said, “but just to see so many people drop everything for safety and the well-being of people was incredible.”
In Memoriam
Inside the Baughman Center on 
Tuesday afternoon, ﬁ  ve bouquets of white ﬂ  owers sat in a semi-circle at the front of the chapel.
The ﬁ  ve families, with white 
ribbons pinned to their chests, em-braced each other and the law en-forcement who supported them 25 years ago. Together they sat on one side of the chapel, holding hands and tissues as they remembered their loved ones.
“I’m very much humbled to be in 
the presence of so many of the fam-
ily members who experienced this 
tragedy,” UF President Kent Fuchs said during the service. “You an-swered your grief and pain with love and compassion for our students.”
But tears began to fall when two 
parents, Dianna Hoyt and Pat Pow-ell, stood to remember their lost chil-dren.
Powell spoke of her daughter 
Christi and her family’s recovery, thanking members of the Gainesville community for their support.
“The festering has disappeared, 
and there is a little scar,” she said, her hands shaking slightly. “But that scar does not interfere with carrying on with our lives. Our family will 
never forget, but we are healed and 
everyone is living a good, normal life.
“All is well.”
A place for remembrance
When Adam Byrn Tritt created a 
mural on the Southwest 34th Street wall remembering the ﬁ  ve students, his intention was to give those griev-ing a temporary sanctuary to mourn.
“We thought it’d last a week or 
two maybe,” Tritt, now 51, said. “Things never last more than a week (on the wall).”
But today, 25 years later, the mu-
ral still remains, the lone constant on an ever-changing wall.
Once maintained by Darnell and 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
AUG. 23, 1990
Danny Rolling checked into a Gainesville hotel under the assumed name Michael Kennedy, Jr.
AUG. 26, 1990
The bodies of Christi Powell, 17, and Sonja Larson, 18, both incoming UF freshmen, are found in their two -story apartment, Unit 113, at Williamsburg Villages Apartment.
AUG. 27, 1990
Christa Hoyt, a 18 -year- old Santa Fe College student and clerk at 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce, is found dead in her duplex 
on Southwest 24th Avenue.
AUG. 28, 1990
Tracy Paules, a UF pre -law student, and Manuel Taboada, a UF architecture student, are found dead in their home in Gatorwood Apartments, which was located on the 2300 block of Archer Road.
SEPT. 7, 1990
Danny Rolling is arrested for robbing a Winn -Dixie in Ocala.
NOVEMBER 1991
Rolling is  conﬁ  rmed as the killer through DNA evaluation.
FEB. 15, 1994
Rolling pleads guilty to the ﬁ  ve 
murders.
MARCH 24, 1994The jury unanimously votes to sentence Rolling to the death penalty.
OCT. 25, 2006
After 12 years on death row, Danny Rolling was pronounced dead via lethal injection.
REMEMBER,  from pg 1
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the mural on the 34th Street wall remembering the ﬁ  ve students killed by Danny Rolling. Adam Byrn Tritt, one of the mural’s creators, did not expect it to last longer than a couple weeks.
SEE 
REMEMBER,  PAGE 5FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Thespians club president and news 
anchorman at his high school.
•   •   •
Tracy Paules, 23, was a pre-law 
student at UF. 
At Miami’s American High 
School, she had played soccer and softball and was elected as Home-
coming Queen and class president. 
According to Alligator archives, 
loved ones described Paules as 
beautiful and poised, greeting her parents with “hi dude” and “hi du-dette” on occasion. 
Close with her family, her 
brother Scott got permission for leave from the U.S. Navy in order 
to escort Paules on the night she 
was crowned Homecoming Queen.
— Emily CochraneSTUDENTS,  from pg 1
In 1994, Verlinda McDaniel sat in a court-
room.
As juror No. 2 in the trial deciding if Danny 
Rolling would receive the death penalty for five murders in 1990, she had to keep a strong face, she said.
“I don’t think I’ve ever felt so angry in my 
life,” she said. “My heart just went out to the family.”
She and 11 other jurors eventually recom-
mended the death penalty, a decision she feels was the right one. However, the emotional deci-sion still had a flaw.
“No matter what the decision was,” McDaniel 
said, “we couldn’t bring them back.”
The sentence would be fulfilled Oct. 25, 2006.
Drew Harwell was 19 when he reported on 
Rolling’s execution for the Alligator.
“Danny Rolling in the pictures looked like 
such an old, frail guy,” Harwell, now 28, said. 
“He didn’t look like the monster who had haunt-ed the city for so long. He just looked like this pathetic old guy.”
Outside the prison, Harwell remembers, was 
a media frenzy.
“There were just really emotional people on 
both sides,” he said, adding that supporters and opponents of the death penalty joined those who remembered the 1990 murders.
Chris Tisch, now an editor at the Tampa Bay 
Times, described the scene outside the prison as “a bit of a carnival atmosphere” because of all the media. But inside, everything was quiet.
“It’s a peculiar space,” Tisch said. “Everyone 
just kind of sits and watches a person die.”
He described it as the oddest execution he has 
ever witnessed, due to a self-composed coun-try song Rolling sang instead of choosing final 
words.
“He who flung the stars into heavens above, 
created the oceans, mountains, eagles and 
doves,” he sang, Tisch said. “None greater than thee, Oh Lord, none greater than thee.”
The microphone was cut off after two min-utes, and soon what Tisch called “the lethal cock-tail” began to flow into his arm.
At 6:13 p.m., the man who terrorized 
Gainesville was pronounced dead.
For the Alligator writers, their final coverage 
of Rolling left a lasting impression.
“It sort of pulls you out of that bubble of being 
young and vulnerable,” Harwell, now a writer at the Washington Post, said. “It reminds you how important it is to be appreciating life every day because something like that is so random and cruel.”
Dominick Tao, another writer who now 
serves in the U.S. Army, said he still remembers looking through the pictures of the crime scenes.
“I’ve been to war,” he said. “I’ve been to Af-
ghanistan, and nothing I’ve seen could top that tragedy and inhumanity perpetrated by that psy-chopath.”
Years later, he refuses to say Rolling’s name.
— Emily Cochrane
other members of the community, the UF Interfraternity Council has maintained the memorial since 2000, applying fresh coats of paint several times a semester.
 “I want to be able to commemo-
rate and respect the families and the students affected by the murders,” said Kason Green, 21, who helps paint the wall as IFC president.
The industrial and systems engi-
neering fifth-year said he feels it is important that the IFC maintain the wall so students are aware of the tragic events in 1990.
“I can’t see us stopping,” he said. 
“I have every intention of passing it down to my successors.”
When Hoyt stood during the me-
morial service, she spoke of the wall as a cherished remembrance.
“This is keeping the memory of 
our children alive, and that means so 
much for us,” she said.
“Everyone can see the shrine, and 
something of our children lives on 
through the wall.”
Manny Taboada’s brother, Mario, 
said the wall carries just as much meaning for his mother.
“She shows off the wall like someone shows off their kids,” he said after the ceremony.
Living Life
It was hard at first for Taboada 
to visit Gainesville. But it has gotten easier.
“I don’t think of Gainesville in a 
negative connotation,” he said. “To 
me, this feels like it’s my brother’s 
home.
“I’d like to believe they’re perpet-
ual students here.”
Besides the wall, there are other 
tangible memories of the five stu-dents throughout Gainesville. Across the street from the wall, five palm trees bear their names and scholar-ships have been established in their 
honor.  
“Whether people like it or not, it’s 
part of Gainesville’s historical fab-
ric,” Spencer Mann said. “It’s there. It’s not going to go away.”
To Mann, the 1990 Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office spokesman, current students should know about the 1990 student murders to remind 
them to exercise basic personal safe-
ty.
“None of these victims in these 
cases did anything wrong,” Mann said. 
“They were living life the way it 
is.”While a serial killer coming to 
town can’t be predicted, it’s not im-possible to prepare for. 
Jen Day Shaw, UF associate vice 
president and dean of students, said UF does exercises every semester to prepare for the unknown.
“Whatever it is,” she said, “we 
practice what resources would we need, where there are gaps, how do 
we communicate.”
For Taboada, there’s a different 
request for students.
“Enjoy life,” he said. “Enjoy every 
minute.”
“My brother did.”The aftermath of a serial killer’s trial
REMEMBER,  from pg 4The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnAs fun and exciting as this week has been, like all weeks, 
it must come to an end. As many of our columnists wrote 
about, this week was a time for new beginnings: New class-es, new friends and new experiences are but a few of the joys that lie in the semester ahead. With that said, it’s time for 
this semester’s inaugural edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
As we’ve recounted within these very pages, UF President 
Kent Fuchs has had an incredibly busy week. Last Friday, 
he joined thousands of baby Gators to welcome them to UF, charming students and parents alike with a hilarious video of himself engaged in various UF traditions around campus. 
On Sunday, despite a gloomy sky and some rain, he made it 
out to join students in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium for the second annual Rally in the Swamp.
Not one to rest on his laurels (see what we did there?), 
President Fuchs was then interviewed by WCJB-TV to dis-cuss his goals for his first Fall semester here in Gainesville. He wrapped up his week in spectacular fashion by taking over the UF Snapchat.
It is genuinely gratifying to see a university president take 
so much interest in the day-to-day lives of students. So often, it becomes easy for administration to sit in their offices, de-tached from the weird, wonderful things that occur on a daily basis here at UF. As thanks for being the most affable, pleas-ant president a university could ask for, we give UF Presi-dent Fuchs a well-deserved LAUREL.
In contrast to the likable qualities of President Fuchs, we 
have the Florida House and Senate. Back in July, the Florida Supreme Court ordered the state legislature to overhaul its 
redistricting plans in advance of next year’s elections. In a 
5-2 decision, the court ruled that their plans demonstrated an “unconstitutional intent to favor the Republican Party and its incumbents.” Well, no surprises there.
Last Friday, following a failed “attempt” by Republican 
legislative leaders to agree on how to best redraw district boundaries, legislators threw up their hands and left empty handed. After in-fighting and prioritizing personal interests over that of their constituents, it should be no surprise that 
Florida politicians get an unshapely, gerrymandered DART.
On Sunday, AMC premiered its newest program, “Fear the 
Walking Dead,” a spinoff of the most successful cable pro-
gram of all time, “The Walking Dead.” Yes.
“Fear the Walking Dead” follows a dysfunctional fam-
ily (sound familiar?) in Los Angeles, California, occupying the same fictional universe already established by its parent show. Except this time… the zombie outbreak hasn’t reached epidemic proportions yet. This slight shift in premise is as 
weak a narrative grab as they come.
We here at the Alligator office don’t mind spinoffs. In its 
first season, AMC’s very own “Better Call Saul” proved to be 
a worthy side story to “Breaking Bad.” However, Saul Good-man had already proven to be a rich character worthy of examination on his parent show. So far, there is nothing on “Fear the Walking Dead” to suggest that the aforementioned shift in timeframe is compelling enough to justify a whole new program. For being fearful of taking risks on new prem-
ises, we give AMC executives a staggering, decomposed  
DART.
Finally, indie-rock extraordinaire Dan Bejar released a new 
album this week under his Destroyer moniker. The album, 
“Poison Season,” successfully juggles the sounds of Spring-steen and Steely Dan, offering straightforward rock anthems and moody, horn-centric lounge numbers in equal measure.
For being the cantankerous, pretentious avant-garde mu-
sician the world needs, we give Dan Bejar a LAUREL.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Last week, I logged onto Facebook after 
a summer of neglect. I was greeted with a familiar but troubling sight: Someone 
had posted an article about a scorned 
boyfriend throwing acid in his girl-
friend’s face. While that was the first I had heard of that particular story, I have seen sim-
ilar stories posted on Facebook many times 
before. The Texas mother who drowned her children in a pool; the Massachusetts teacher who was murdered by a student; the Tennes-see couple who were raped and beaten; all were equally 
tragic stories that had found their way into my life be-
cause of a shared Facebook post.
Let me be clear: I am not particularly sensitive to the 
news. I realize the media, like any other industry, caters 
to the tastes of its consumers. The phrase, “If it bleeds, 
it leads,” exists for a reason. For whatever reason, the American public is fascinated by the often fatal misfor-tunes of people they don’t know. This means that there is ample news coverage of shocking tragedies like those 
listed above. What I find disturbing isn’t that these sto-
ries exist in the first place, but the fact that so many people feel the need to share them on Facebook.
Ostensibly, those who post them do so to express 
genuine outrage or sympathy. They caption their posts with things like, “This is disgusting,” “People are evil,” or some other expression of moral indignation. In real-ity, however, they are doing little more than helping to 
reduce the very real lives of very real people to some-thing for us to gasp and gawk at.
This is not to say that these tragedy-post-
ers are bad or insensitive. It is only human to revel in the terrible fates that befall those we 
don’t know. Like staring at the aftermath of a car accident, we are so consumed by the hor-ror of what we are witnessing that we shame-
lessly rubberneck the misfortune of others. In 
doing so, we forget the people involved had families and friends, and we deny them the dignity and respect they deserve.
There are times when posting a tragic news story 
is appropriate. The deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner were symptoms of a greater social problem in American life; therefore, posting their stories served to bring attention to a pervasive problem that has yet 
to be solved. The Sandy Hook Elementary School kill-
ings were part of a greater gun violence epidemic in the U.S.; therefore, posts about it were often used to support or oppose gun rights. These are both examples of a meaningful use of tragedy posts. They were used 
to voice opinions regarding issues within the nation as 
a whole. However, in most cases there is no purpose behind posting tragic stories other than to ogle at how awful they are.
This is why I urge you to think twice before you post 
a tragic story. Even if the feelings you wish to express about the story are real, the result is that those reading your post have a brief, “How horrible!” moment before they text their friends about the crazy thing they read 
on the Internet and move on to a funny cat video. While 
it’s true that the website or newspaper which published the story initially has already turned the tragedy into a spectacle, you don’t have to help.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.Don’t reduce tragedy to a Facebook post
Namwan
Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
“In most cases there is no purpose 
behind posting tragic stories other 
than to ogle at how awful they are.”FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
College can be a pretty 
weird place. Jam any number of young adults 
with raging libidos into a 
high-stress environment, 
and all kinds of crazy stuff will go down. But hand those same high-
strung and impassioned people a 
whopping sense of entitlement and unshakable certainty in their own morals? Things will get surreal.
This past week, incoming stu-
dents at Duke University made national headlines because they refused to do their sum-mer reading. The stu-
dents refused to read 
“Fun Home,” a graphic novel by Alison Bechdel (who, it must be noted, is a recipient of the 
MacArthur Foundation 
“genius grant” award) because it features light nudity and consensual 
lesbian sex. The Duke idiots cited 
their conservative Christian be-liefs when asked why they didn’t do their homework. They did not wish to read “Fun Home” because 
the book went into detail about 
topics they found morally or politi-cally objectionable.
Perhaps I’m alone, but the story 
about the Duke idiots seemed very familiar to me. It wasn’t because of the all-too-common homopho-bia and Victorian sensibility at the root of this reaction, but rather, the 
juvenile and entitled way in which 
the Duke idiots expressed their dis-agreement.
It reminded me of what I’ll just 
call trigger-warning culture, for purposes of brevity and because “trend of ridiculous, vindictive public shaming and blind reliance on dogma” is a tad unwieldy.
Trigger warnings themselves 
are pretty innocuous and have genuine uses. Their intended use is as a warning label to readers about 
content that could possibly cause 
panic attacks or bring up memo-ries of past trauma. Usually, this is done to protect survivors of sexual assault, or people who may have 
experienced extreme prejudice 
or other types of violence talked about in academic writing.
But these things freak out a lot 
of people, from professors to co-medians on campus telling off-col-or jokes, and most recently a pair of researchers — a constitutional lawyer and a social psychologist — 
who wrote in The Atlantic about 
trigger-warning culture and how it actually hampers people with mental health issues.  
Why? Well, as they say, the 
thing is not the thing. In reality, people aren’t freaked out by de-mands for warning labels on works of art and literature so much as the 
obtuse and zealously self-righteous 
culture they’re associated with, a political culture which is much broader than mere demands for warning labels. That’s where the 
comparison to the Duke idiots lies: 
their unwillingness to openly deal with ideas that challenge or even fall outside of what they believe 
is acceptable is no different from 
trigger-warning culture’s view on subjects they don’t agree with. It’s just tougher to argue against it, because the things it objects — 
racism, misogyny, homophobia — 
are real evils that need to be fought 
against.
Ostensibly, the goal 
of trigger-warning cul-ture is to make a college campus a safe space for all students to learn and engage freely with-
out prejudice in all its 
forms. But that perfectly good idea is often taken to absurd lengths which 
doesn’t make campuses safer, but rather reduces their value as places for learning and intellectual growth. The MO of trigger-warn-ing culture is to apply sociological 
terms and concepts to situations 
and make snap, ﬁ  nal judgements based on that knowledge. Take the Brandeis Asian American Stu-
dent Association’s exhibit on the 
everyday casual racism (microag-gressions) Asian Americans face, which was taken down because it contained examples of said mi-
croaggressions and was deemed 
triggering. Apparently, educating about the issue is as “problematic” as the issue itself.
It would be a mistake to fo-
cus solely on the absurdity of this trend though, because it’s not lim-ited to vaguely leftist activists who learned about these concepts on 
Tumblr. They get the most atten-
tion because they’re the organized and obvious example of this colle-giate entitlement.
But the debacle with the Duke 
idiots proves this is a problem across the political spectrum, where people are unwilling to engage with educational material 
that doesn’t ﬁ  t neatly into the ide-
ology they held the moment they graduated high school.
What’s disturbing about this 
isn’t a perceived restriction on “free speech” — that’s not actually at risk here. It’s the ﬂ  agrant lack of regard for critical thinking or for putting things in context.
This is a grown-up manifesta-
tion of the entitlement brought to us by helicopter parenting and treating college as a place to vali-
date your pre-existing opinions. 
It’s intellectually lazy and under-mines the whole value of our edu-cation.
Alec Carver is a UF history 
junior. His column appears on Fridays.Educational entitlement: 
dumb, lazy and problematicColumn
Welcome back for the Fall semes-ter, Gators! I hope that everyone had a good ﬁ  rst week back and 
is re-acclimating to the humidity, 
the homework and The Gator Na-
tion.
And to you freshmen, I hope you’re get-
ting used to hooking up on squeaky, extra-long twin beds and masturbating in public showers — even if that’s something you said you would never do.
You see, college has a weird way of getting you to do 
things you never thought you would — having a one-night-stand, failing a class or, if you’re like me, getting a signiﬁ  cant other.
So let me share some selﬁ  sh news with you: I got a 
boyfriend this summer. He’s an amazingly wonderful person who was incredibly patient with me as I debated whether I was ready to trade hooking up for monogamy.
You see, I was comfortable hooking up. It was fun. 
It’s what I knew and what I was familiar with. It was, 
cheesy as it sounds, part of who I was.
So to have something, or someone, come in and 
shake that up was a big surprise. I spoke to a past hook-
up about it, sharing my worries for what this meant for 
who I was — OK, mostly for what this meant for who 
I am as a sex columnist — and he laughed at me and called me silly.
But to me it wasn’t silly. As someone who had never 
been in a relationship before, I didn’t know what to do. 
That was new territory for me.Here I was in my 20s experiencing an identity crisis 
because I got a boyfriend. And no one ever tells you that’s going to happen.
When you go to college, you expect your crises to 
be about different things. You miss home. You get your ﬁ  rst “C.” You don’t know what to major in. You don’t feel like you belong. You have trouble making friends.
Those things may deﬁ  nitely happen, but you also 
might face an identity crisis regarding things that your staffers didn’t cover at Preview.
When we talk about acclimating to college, these 
four years — maybe ﬁ  ve; I see you extra-lappers — we 
leave out an important subject.
So consider this a reassuring message that it’s OK to 
question who you are as a sexual person.
Maybe that means coming to terms with a commit-
ted relationship you thought you would never be in. Maybe you get to college and casually hook up for the ﬁ  rst time and realize that you love it, or you 
try it once and realize it’s not for you.
In between worrying about whether you 
should join Student Government or Greek life, it’s OK to worry about dating, having sex and what this all means to you. It’s not trivial. Discovering what you want sexually 
is just as important as discovering what you 
want to major in.
College is all about self-discovery. And 
don’t think that this search for your identity stops when you’re a freshman. It’s an ongoing process, so don’t be 
surprised if who you are and what you like changes. 
You might be only interested in hooking up once you arrive, but by your third year you may want something more serious.
Maybe, while you’re missing your parents and your 
hometown, you’ll also be missing a long distance SO Or instead, you might have to completely revamp your identity as a single college co-ed who just broke up with your long-term high school partner.
Or maybe, when you’re questioning what you want 
to do for the rest of your life, you’ll also be question-ing your sexuality because you thought you only liked 
guys, but Jen in chemistry is really cute.
It’s okay to not be sure what you want! Your advis-
ers will tell you that it’s OK to take introductory classes 
your ﬁ  rst semester. It’s OK to explore different majors and see which one interests you. This goes for sexual-ity, too.
Don’t let classes, intramurals, extracurriculars be the 
only things that you experiment with during your col-lege career. Try on new sexual identities. Find out what you like and what you want, and be open to those pref-erences changing even if you swore you would never 
put a sock on your dorm door.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.College: Time to discover your sexual identity Column
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
“It's an ongoing process, so 
don't be surprised if who 
you are and what you like 
changes.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
TODAY from Noon until 5:00 p.m.
Ope/n.fina Hous!ﯥOpe/n.fina Hous!ﯥ
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W. University Ave, two blocks east of UF campus, 
across the street from the Bank of America.writers, copy editors, columnists, cartoonists, sports reporters, photographers, bloggers, 
graphic designers and videographers.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W. University Ave., two blocks east of UF campus, 
across the street from the Bank of America.
Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.
Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.
Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.
Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.
Please bring your résumé, clips and portfolio if you have one.
TODAY from Noon until 5:00 p.m.
CAMPUS
Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Institute of Hispanic-La-
tino Culture has been complete-
ly student-run for about three 
months.
After the previous director, Ol-
ivia Garcia, gave up the position 
this summer, followed by a failed 
director search in June, the orga-
nization’s committee closed the search without hiring a new staff member for the position.But even without a director, the 
organization, also called La Ca-
sita, will hold its open house today 
from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. It is partner-ing with the Institute of Black Cul-ture to throw a block party, offer-ing food and information about the 
institute’s resources and services.
Operating without a director 
isn’t unheard of, said Richard Lai-
nez, a La Casita ambassador of 
three years.
“It isn’t something out of the 
norm,” the 21-year-old said. “The responsibilities are split between 
the director, the director’s assis-
tant and the ambassadors.”
La Casita’s director serves as 
a mentor to the students, Lainez 
said.
While the organization operates 
without a director, other depart-ments in Multicultural and Diver-sity Affairs are helping La Casita 
perform the director’s duties, the 
biology senior said.
The director is responsible for 
budgeting to allocate money and resources, said Mary Kay Caro-
dine, UF assistant vice president 
for student affairs.
The La Casita search commit-
tee, which includes student ambas-
sadors, UF faculty and community 
members, is no longer ofﬁ  cially searching for a director.  But stu-dents involved with La Casita are still looking.
These students interviewed 
a director candidate, Gabe Lara, over Skype Thursday evening at La Casita.
In the meantime, ambassadors 
have to be more involved, said Yareliz Mendez-Zamora, who was involved as a student ambassador with a previous director search.
“It’s a time for student ambas-
sadors to rise to the occasion,” the 21-year-old said.La Casita to continue functioning without a director 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Cold Brews
First Magnitude Brewing Co. employees Zane Shelley 
(left) and Lane Abraben serve Andrew Donovan two brews Thursday evening. There were about 100 people there to celebrate the release of Sweetwater Organic Coffee’s new NitroJoe coffee, which is cold brewed for 18 hours and then charged with Nitrogen gas.
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer 
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Sarah Wolff and her family lived 
without power for two weeks, play-
ing board games and reading books 
to pass time as the storm raged.
Wolff’s Ocala home was one of 
many affected 10 years ago as sev-
eral hurricanes and tropical storms 
paved way across the Sunshine State, 
knocking out power and causing ﬂ  oods with torrential downpour. 
With Tropical Storm Erika nearing 
Florida, locals are remembering the 
hurricanes of the past.
“Everybody in the neighborhood 
had at least one broken window from 
some... kind of loose objects because 
no one thinks to take in potted plants 
or anything else they have in their yard, which automatically in high winds becomes a ﬂ  ying projectile,” the 23-year-old Santa Fe art sopho-
more said.
The scene in Gainesville wasn’t 
much different. Downed trees and 
limbs saturated the city, and a few 
areas ﬂ  ooded. The city didn’t suffer like some others, but those who were 
prepared lived a bit more comfort-ably during the storms.
Now, as Tropical Storm Erika 
nears, the potential for another hur-ricane impacting Florida seems more likely.
Dennis Feltgen, spokesman for the 
National Hurricane Center, said Erika 
is projected to become a category 1 
hurricane, the lowest ranking.
Projected paths show Erika as 
possibly impacting Florida as early as 
Sunday. But, Feltgen stressed, there 
are too many possibilities to know exactly what will happen and when.
For now, Floridians are advised to 
begin preparing for a potential hur-
ricane.
UF Family, Youth and Community 
Sciences Professor Mike Spranger 
was in Gainesville in 2004 and ‘05 
when the hurricanes and tropical 
storms hit. Back then, he said people were more prepared for a hurricane.
But now, he worries hurricanes 
are an afterthought.
“The problem we have today is 
people have gotten complacent,” he said.If you’re not well prepared, 
Spranger said, “that could be danger-ous.”
Locals remember past hurricanes “It’s a time for student 
ambassadors to rise to the 
occasion.” 
Yareliz Mendez-Zamora
previous student ambassador
Hurricane Safety Tips
 Fill your car with gas
 Turn your refrigerator 
and freezer to the cold-
est setting, and keep the door closed for as long as possible to make sure food lasts if power is lost.
 Bring in bicycles, furniture 
and anything that can be picked up with the wind
 Have at least three days 
worth of non-perishable food and water
 Have a flashlight and extra 
batteries
Helpful Links
 redcross.org/
 nhc.noaa.gov/• emergency.uﬂ  .edu/wp-
content/uploads/2014/07/
Student-Hurricane-Bro-chure_May-2014.pdfTropical Storm Erika nearsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious 
atmosphere. $475/mo includes high speed internet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 325-631-0737    9-3-15-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like 
new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $675/mo. Call Joe 727-423-9463    8-28-15-6-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
2 fem roommates wanted for 3 bedroom 
spacious, house. Shaded fenced backyard, wood floors, screened living porch. Washer/Dryer. 6 blocks from campus/from "Swamp/UF Plaza, NW 6th Ave. $490/m + Utl. Call/Text: 607 351 8655     9-1-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
3 COMPUTER MONITORS FOR SALE:
●Accer 20" black, $20●Sansui, HDTV & computer, 19" black $40●Accer 20" LCD $20Call Ron 352-843-8998     8-31-15-2-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
BACKPACKSNorth Face, Osprey, & Jansport on Sale!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13 St /1 mile North of UF on 13th St352.372.37836    9-2-5-10
YETIRambler Cups In Stock. Keep it as cold as possible!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13th St / 1 mile North of UF352.372.7836                    9-2-5-10
Great Expectations Auction Company
St. Johns County Surplus Auction45+ Vehicles, Equipment, Etc.Saturday, August 29th 
Registration 8AM, Begins 10AM
Preview Fri 9AM - 5PM
2446 Dobbs Rd, St. AugustinePreview Details & Photos www.geauction.comAB2597 /  AB211     BP 10%     8-28-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleFRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
For sale: HIGH VISABILITY motorcycle rid-
ing JACKET, large, greenish-yellow with high visability BACKPACK - same color. Paid $262 for both - will sell for half-price at $130 together. Don 352-328-0764    9-1-5-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    8-28-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    8-28-15-24-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but dis-organized 8th grade girl. $10 per hour plus mileage for 4-6 hours per week. Flexible hours. Email qualifications to maddy56@ufl.edu.    8-28-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
8-28-15-3-14MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
A large reptile farm in Newberry is seeking enthusiastic new team members. The pri-mary hours of operation are Monday-Friday 9am to 5pm. Weekend hours may also be available. Starting salary of $9.00 per hour with a pay increase to $12.00 per hour and a benefits package after a 90 day probationary period. We welcome students and offer flex-ible scheduling!
This position involves caring for various rep-
tile species, and may include tasks such as feeding, watering, cleaning cages, breeding, and recording data. Being comfortable work-ing around insects, reptiles, and rodents is important for this position.
This is a hands on position. Candidates can-
not be afraid of handling reptiles and possi-bly being bitten. Don't worry; we do not have any venomous species at our facility!
If you are a motivated hard worker with re-
liable transportation and are interested in working with animals, please contact us!
The Gourmet Rodent
352-472-9189       9-2-15-5-14
MAKE $$$ Referring College/University Students To Our Website!!!Send Inquiries To Dr. Wayne Hunter:  (386) 801-1599; khunter35@cfl.rr.com; www.drwayneeditsandresearch.com    9-1-4-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring for
recreational & team gymnastics coaches,
front desk, & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
9-3-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week! NO experience Needed! Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    8-28-1-14Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    8-28-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    8-28-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    8-28-1-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers - 2 CPM Pay Increase! $2k Sign-On BonusSee The CountryLove your Job and TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com         8-28-1-14
Immediate Openings Now!Home Every Week, Excellent Pay/Benefits,100% No Touch Freight, 75% Drop & Hook.Class A CDL w/ 1 Yr. Exp. Req.CALL TODAY888-219-8039     8-28-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    8-28-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    8-28-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    8-28-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Attention  Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only  $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now  1-800-224-0305     8-28-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142 OTR Drivers Wanted    8-28-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
RED'S TAVERN 2 Year Anniversary Aug. 
29 Su/Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-
Ladies Night/Karaoke Th.-Men's Night, Fr.-
Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-$1 PBR Drafts 
Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 
27 Ft White 352-339-6978           8-28-10-21
22 Tickets
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
EMILY F.
Sending you warmest wishes
for healing inside and out.
Love, The Alligator Staff
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Attention Runners:2 New Races on Oct. 11th!Alachua Lake Half Marathon & 5K Prediction Run on the Hawthorne Trail.Sign up at www.lloydclarkesports.com    9-2-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 “It came without
ribbons. It came
without __”: The
Grinch
5 Glutton
8 Be at
loggerheads
13 Layered snack
14 Sch. with
residence hallsnamed Acadianand Beauregard
15 Crystal __16 Formal dissent
19 Decimal system
foundation
20 Educator LeShan
21 Fig. in TV’s
“Suits”
22 Lead role in
many a Western
28 Cheap sauce
31 Transports
32 Appreciative cry33 Rocky
prominence
35 Org. of former
Soviet republics
36 Paired37 Independence
Day VIPs
41 It’s found in bars42 “I see what’s
going on!”
43 In the area44 Obedience trials
org.
45 __ steak47 Dropped off50 Vegan diet
component
53 “Quadrophenia”
group, with “The”
54 Med. recording55 Four-time US
Open winner
58 Metaphor for
ballet ... or whatthis puzzle’scircles literallycontain
63 Word on a menu64 One rarely
without a comb?
65 Klein of fashion
66 Stopovers
67 Ware lead-in68 Long-term appeal
DOWN
1 Burger go-with2 Reign of Terror
victims3 Biological
determinant
4 Laundry woe at
the Claus home?
5 Public monument
support
6 Real ending?
7 Dude8 Words to live by9 Gently massage,
wave-style
10 Big deal11 Title for Edward
Elgar
12 Popular17 __ judicata:
decided case
18 Catches19 “What
nonsense!”
23 All24 Archaeological
site
25 “What
nonsense!”
26 Work out the
details
27 Unadon fillets29 Corn, for example30 One may be
passed
34 Rocky field?36 Ivory alternative37 Spots for
Smokey: Abbr.38 Mother of Sean39 Shoot the breeze40 These, to
Thérèse
45 Monastère
members
46 Late-night host
since 2003
48 Obsolescent
publicconveniences
49 Word with dance
or shoe51 Small-minded52 Sgt., e.g.
56 List substitute
57 Diamond
complement
58 See 61-Down59 Bit in a horse’s
mouth?
60 Baseball stat61 Longtime maker
of 58-Down
62 Org. supporting
exhibitions
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/28/1508/28/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 28, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Virginia T ech defensive 
coordinator Bud Foster promoted a policy that's detrimental to student athletes. Read the column on pg. 15. Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics. Former Gator claims IAAF World Championship
Former Florida track and field standout Christian T aylor leapt 18.21 meters, 
the second-longest jump of all time, to claim his second world title in the event. T aylor previously became the youngest man to win the triple jump with his first title at the 2011 World Championships. THE GATORS PLAY 
SATURDAY NIGHT AT 7. 
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Alex Holston’s dad has been 
counting down the days to the 
Gators’ first two season games this weekend.
“He’s been talking about it 
a lot,” Holston said. “I think he started a countdown like 21 days ago like ‘Oh, I’ll see you in 21 days down here.’”
Holston, from Olney, Mary-
land, is one of a group of Florida players that includes Rhamat Al-hassan and Simone Antwi who’ll 
be heading home to play in front of their family and friends.
UF takes on James Madison to-
morrow at 7 p.m. in Harrisonburg, 
Virginia, and American University Sunday at 4 p.m. in Washington, D.C. 
Holston said 
she’s excited to play in front of 
family members who can’t travel 
to Gainesville to 
watch her play.
“Finally my 
dad doesn’t have to fly three 
hours across the country to come see me,” she said. “It’s like a 45 minute drive.”
Alhassan, a sophomore middle 
blocker, hails from Glenarden, 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Treon Harris and Will Grier will 
both play in the season opener against New Mexico State on Sept. 5.
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
said on Thursday he needed to see what each quarterback will do in live game action before he can truly judge which player can make the rest of the team better and provide the best chance to win.
However, he declined to say if he 
would name a starter before the East Carolina game or continue to play 
both further into the season.
“It will play itself out,” McElwain 
said. “Like I’ve said, ... there isn’t 
a timetable. The timetable is figure out a way to win the football game with whoever is moving the team at that position and getting the right parts at the other positions as well.”
Harris and Grier have received 
equal support, and their teammates insist the offense will operate just as well with either one of them, or both.
“The whole offense, we’re cool 
with both of them,” sophomore wide receiver Brandon Powell said. “Nothing slows down when either one is in the game. We’re cool with 
either one, whoever takes the start-
ing spot.”
Ivey injures knee:  Five-star 
freshman offensive tackle Martez 
Ivey began experiencing leg sore-
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE STORY,  PAGE16SOCCER Florida volleyball 
opens season on roadWith team support, Gators letting QB battle play itself out
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore quarterback Treon Harris throws a pass during Spring practice on April 6 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. UF coach Jim 
McElwain said the Gators have no timetable for deciding on a starting quarterback and both Harris and Will Grier will play on Sept. 5. 
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
In a game that featured no 
significant scoring threat in the 
first half, the Florida soccer team 
took down the Miami Hurricanes 
Thursday night, winning 4-2 in Coral Gables.
The No. 14 Gators (2-1-0) took 
five shots in the first half and only challenged the Hurricanes’ goal-keeper twice as the other three first half shots sailed wide of the goal. 
It was a tale of two halves for 
both teams as they headed to the locker rooms knotted at 0-0.
 “I think it was more just a 'let’s stop worrying so much about our system or our style or trying to be 
perfect and just compete',"coach 
Becky Burleigh said. 
“We just needed to battle and 
I think they came out and really 
took that to heart."
After the halftime intermission, 
the two sides erupted to score five 
goals within 10 minutes.
Miami (0-2-0) took a 1-0 lead 
over Florida in the 56th minute to start the scoring frenzy. 
Just as the Hurricanes were 
getting their defense set after the 
goal, the Gators answered. 
Junior forward Savannah Jor-
dan found the back of the net in 
the 58th minute, her second goal this season, to tie the game, 1-1.But Jordan was just getting 
started.
She scored again three minutes 
later and the Gators took a 2-1 lead. 
Miami scored its second goal 
of the match in the 62nd minute, making the scoreline even.
The high level of intensity from 
both sides led to more offensive opportunities, with the Gators out-
shooting the Canes 19-8. UF downs Miami in second half
“W e just needed to battle and 
I think they came out and 
really took that to heart.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach
Wise
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
INSTAGRAHAM
Fining student athletes for breaking 
“rules” is unfathomable, and should be illegal.
On Wednesday, Virginia Tech defen-
sive coordinator Bud Foster revealed to 
reporters a proposed policy of ﬁ  ning players 
for violations.
This list of perceived violations includes 
everything from missing class — where the 
ﬁ  ne ranges from $30 to $90 depending on the 
frequency of the class — to being ﬁ  ned $50 for having a “dirty dorm or locker.”
Completely ignoring Virginia Tech’s admittance that 
the football program considers having a dirty locker to be a more egregious offense than missing class, the list of ﬁ  nable offenses is absurd and ill advised.
Who inspects the player’s dorm and determines 
whether he should be ﬁ  ned? That sounds like a worth-
less job.
It’s unrealistic to expect student athletes, especially 
football players, to have part-time jobs on top of rigorous 
practice sessions and classes.
Therefore, the ﬁ  nes would be taken from a player’s 
cost-of-attendance stipend, which went into effect for the ﬁ  rst time on Aug. 1.
These stipends typically range from $2,000 to $5,000 
per year depending on a slew of factors, and athletes rely 
on them for basic necessities.  
How is this policy legal? It might not be.
Under NCAA rules, coaches cannot reduce a player’s 
ﬁ  nancial aid — simple as that. Forcing a player to pay a ﬁ  ne with stipend money would be a clear violation of this rule, and therefore illegal. 
Within two hours of Foster’s comments, Virginia 
Tech athletic director Whit Babcock issued a statement through the school saying the system of issuing ﬁ  nes 
“will be discontinued immediately.”
The idea that VT coaches believe ﬁ  ning players could 
even be considered would seem to indicate student ath-
letes are considered employees — a notion the NCAA has dismissed for years.
Despite the about face of Virginia Tech’s athletic de-
partment, other universities are bafﬂ  ingly considering adopting similar policies.
Cincinnati football coach Tommy Tuber-
ville said Thursday he’s considering withhold-ing players’ cost-of-living funds for breaking team rules.
Heads up Tommy, but I don’t think that’s 
going to last very long, even if Bearcats ath-letic director Mike Bohn continues to insist deducting money from a player’s stipend is a “tool” rather than a ﬁ  ne.
No, Bohn. You’re the tool. 
Social media and the Internet have put football under 
a consistent and intense microscope — every athlete’s actions are monitored and their freedom of speech is lim-
ited to avoid embarrassment for the university.
Hence why Virginia Tech and Cincinnati want to ﬁ  ne 
players: It’s one of the few remaining ways to discipline 
players and emphasize personal accountability.
Florida sophomore wide receiver Brandon Powell 
said Thursday he hasn’t received his cost-of-living sti-pend check yet, but he will soon. 
He said he knows of players who also send money 
home to their families, and the stipend could alleviate 
added stress.
Powell doesn’t have to worry, however, because UF 
coach Jim McElwain said he has no intention of ﬁ  ning  
players.
“That’s something they put in nationally to help these 
student athletes,” McElwain said. “It’s theirs.”
That’s right, it’s theirs.It’s the student athlete’s decision to determine what 
the stipend money is used on, and it’s their choice.
The athletes that make it to the top of their profession 
don’t need to be ﬁ  ned for missing practice and class.
They don’t miss practice and they realize the impor-
tance of an education — both for personal reasons and the understanding of being a student so you can remain an athlete.
The ones who fail to hold themselves accountable de-
spite their unique opportunities are hurting themselves and their family, who had high expectations for ultimate-
ly unmotivated kin.
They won’t be missed.
AP Photo
Virginia T ech defensive coordinator Bud Foster found out quickly 
that just because his players have extra cash in the form of stipends, it does not mean he can ﬁ  ne them when they screw up. 
Proposal to ﬁ  ne student athletes is ludicrous and insane
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Finding more attacking chances and 
shots on goal for Florida in the match was 
due in part to the forward play of the out-
side defensive backs. 
“It was not even what I said," Burleigh 
said. "It was some of the older players and the 
veterans of the locker room stood up and said it before I got in there and I think it re-
ally resonated with this group.”
The Gators scored their third goal in 10 
minutes when freshman midﬁ  elder Sarah Troccoli found the back of the net for the 
ﬁ  rst goal of her career in the 66th minute. 
Jordan scored again in the 85th minute, giving the Gators a two-goal lead with more 
than ﬁ  ve minutes remaining in the match.
During the ﬁ  rst half, the junior forward 
from Fayetteville, Georgia, had trouble get-ting anything going. 
Jordan had a hard time staying on the 
ball when it came to her, but the two-time 
All-American was able to ﬂ  ip the script dur-
ing the second half.Jordan’s goal in the 85th minute marked 
her ﬁ  rst hat trick of the season and the 2nd 
of her career. 
Burleigh said the team hit its stride once 
they relaxed after halftime. 
"They needed to let go of the desire to 
play perfectly," Burleigh said, "and just get after it, and that's exactly what we needed."SOCCER,  from pg 14Jordan, with 45 career goals, scored her second hat trick at UFMaryland, a city just 20 miles east of Ameri-
can and 150 miles northeast from James Mad-ison. 
Alhassan said she’s excited to have her 
mom in the stands, but it won’t put any pres-
sure on her.
“I don’t really think like, ‘Oh, hey my 
mom’s up there,’” she said. “I love having her 
up there but I always go in focused and doing 
what I have to do.”
Antwi, a junior middle blocker from Fair-
fax Station, Virginia, said she hopes her fami-
ly attends, considering their proximity to both universities.
“I invited them, so we’ll see if they actually 
show up,” she said.
And like Holston, Antwi agreed that she’s 
thrilled to have family and friends watch her that don’t normally have a chance to.
“My parents do come down a lot and stuff, 
but my friends don’t so I’m excited for them to see me live,” Antwi said. “Not on TV or on a stat tracker or anything.”
Coach Mary Wise said these games weren’t 
scheduled by accident.
“What we try and do in a four year period 
is to bring the players back home, especially if they come from a part of the country that we don’t see in regular season play,” Wise said. 
“Part of it was trying to play the best com-
petition and the other part was who’d say yes.”
And because everyone else’s seasons are 
also starting around the country, Wise and her team don’t have video of their opponents yet. All three of Holston, Alhassan and Antwi agreed that all they can do is just play vol-leyball.
“It’s basically going in and playing Gator 
volleyball, and worrying about what we have 
to do on our side,” Alhassan said.
While Holston described Florida volleyball 
by saying it’s about having fun and playing 
with chemistry, Wise had a more dynamic answer.
“What we’d like to be is a team that makes 
it real hard to score on,” she said. “Whether that be our front row blocking or our back row defense.”
While everyone from the players to Wise is 
excited to ﬁ  nally start the season, Antwi was speciﬁ  cally pumped to end the monotonous scrimmaging routine.
“We’ve been playing against each other 
for like two straight weeks,” she said. “So it’s nice to ﬁ  nally play someone that isn’t our own teammates.”
And Wise set the record straight when 
asked if it’s ever hard to motivate her team for these ﬁ  rst few games.
“Are you kidding?” she said with a big 
grin. 
“You ask any player, any decade, any part 
of the world, would you rather practice or play? It’s unanimous.”16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015
ness in his leg during Wednesday's prac-
tice. 
According to the Orlando Sentinel, 
Ivey suffered a slightly torn meniscus in his left knee and could miss up to four weeks. He will reportedly undergo ar-
throscopic surgery today. 
Ivey had been practicing with the 
ﬁ  rst-team offense and was getting rave 
reviews from his teammates throughout 
Fall camp.
“It’s a big blow for us,” redshirt soph-
omore offensive lineman Antonio Riles 
said, “but I think Martez is going to be 
perfectly ﬁ  ne."
The injury does an already thin line no 
favors and will force some shufﬂ  ing, but McElwain said he was conﬁ  dent in the line’s ﬂ  exibility.
“With (Travaris) Dorsey getting back, 
I think we’re still sitting there with about eight or nine guys,” he said, “which was 
kind of our goal going in, to be able to 
move some of those parts.”
Drops still problematic:Dropped passes still remain an issue 
in Fall camp for Florida’s wide receivers.
“Every now and then they catch it,” 
McElwain said dryly.
The Gators were plagued by drops 
last season, and McElwain said he wants to see his players develop a basketball-rebounding mentality when going up for passes.
“I’d still like to see them go up in the 
air and get things more aggressively when the ball is up there,” he said, “demand that it’s theirs and not play second seed to anybody.” 
Special Teams:
The Gators will likely use their top cor-
ners as gunners on special teams.
Junior Vernon Hargreaves, sophomore 
Jalen Tabor and senior Brian Poole are all options to be used on punt coverage this 
year, McElwain said, among others.
“Those guys can get down there and 
get after it,” he said. 
Depending on the type of punt cover-
age, McElwain said he will use different 
options that have different skill sets for different situations.
“We’ve got some choices there where 
we don’t have to wear guys out,” he said.FOOTBALL,  from pg 14Ivey to undergo surgery, Hargreaves to be special teams gunner
VOLLEY,  from pg 14Wise said the games were scheduled to bring players close to home
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Florida right side hitter Alex Holston (3) and middle blocker Simone Antwi (16) go for 
a block during UF's 3-1 win against Miami on Dec. 6. 
Alligator File Photo
Vernon Hargreaves makes a tackle during Florida's 38-20 win against Georgia on Nov. 1 at Everbank Field in Jacksonville. 
