42 WOMEN WENT 
THROUGH THE 
PROGRAM.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Tania Rivera has been out of jail 
for less than a week, and she decided 
to go back.
In a grassy area near the bland 
buildings and barbed-wire fences of the Alachua County Jail, the 23-year-old smiles with her son and two big dogs.
For about nine weeks, Rivera 
worked with a boxer named Barney Collier as part of Alachua County’s Paws on Parole. The program works with well-behaved inmates, like Ri-vera, who are selected to train dogs from Alachua County Animal Ser-vices.
At Wednesday’s program gradua-
tion ceremony for Barney and his dog friend, Rollin Hand, Rivera watched Barney play with his adoptive fam-ily. Barney’s new adoptive broth-ers are a group of four elementary-aged boys who cooed and squealed as they showered him in hugs and giggles.
“He’s going home,” Rivera said. 
“I’m so sad. He’s leaving me.”
But Rivera was smiling as she 
said it.  
The boys, who are just older than 
Rivera’s son, laughed as they pushed yellow Minion sunglasses onto the slobbering pooch’s face. Rivera 
laughed, too.
The ceremony wasn’t just for the 
dogs, though. As the trainers who 
taught the dogs basic commands and socialized them, the female inmates are also celebrated.Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Dar-
nell said the women who graduate from the program learn patience and nurturing skills, which help them get jobs and stabilize their lives.
Of the 42 total women to go 
through the program, only eight re-turned to jail, said the program’s 
main corrections ofﬁ  cer, Debra Scott.
After the jail earned the grant 
that started the program, it was able 
to work solely off donations from events, said Hilary Hynes, the ACAS public education coordinator.  With 80 percent of inmates not 
returning to jail, Darnell said the pro-gram is a success.
“That’s a great — from a business 
standpoint — return on investment,” she said.
Former inmates like Rivera, who 
works at Holiday Inn, are contribut-ing positively to society, Darnell said.
Their success is due, in part, to 
the dogs.  
When inmates see the animals 
succeed — becoming friendlier and healthier — Scott said, this helps the women regain their self-conﬁ  dence.
“Dogs have so much love to 
give,” she said.
Tina Butler, 47, speaks fondly of 
the dogs she has trained in the pro-
gram. 
“They humble you, and they 
teach you stuff about yourself,” But-
ler said.
At her home, Butler said she was 
always surrounded by animals, feed-ing strays and owning dogs, cats, horses and hamsters.
She describes Rollin as protective 
and hyper.
“He loves to give you hugs and 
kisses,” she said.
She pointed to Dan Mainwaring, 
who is adopting Rollin.
The dogs have an undeniable and 
contagious happiness, Butler said. When they see their trainers, both parties get excited.
“It not only makes (Rollin) feel 
good, it makes you feel good, too,” We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 166 THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
The Alligator Awards
This week’s debate: Best Male Athlete, pg 
17.
Levin College of Law ranked 5th for family law
Ranked by Law Street Media,  pg 4
Research Roundup
Plants in space and obesity, pg 5Check out the Avenue
Highlights include a comedian talking about psychedelics and the Swamp Dance Fest, pgs 9-12
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
UF Student Body Treasurer Nicholas 
Carre likes to compare Student Govern-
ment to a juicy piece of steak.
He compared SG to a steak because it 
provides nutrients; the conferences and other events they participate in are like sides of coleslaw or mashed potatoes to 
add to the wholesomeness.
“I think the plate of food will taste bet-
ter as the year goes on,” he said.
Carre, along with six other members of 
SG, had the opportunity to travel to Ala-bama this past weekend to attend the an-
nual Southeastern Conference Exchange, where UF SG took home all three awards it was nominated for.
UF SG received the SEC Outstanding 
Legislation award for its 2013 resolution in 
support of tuition equity for undocumented 
students; the Student Government of the Year award for the 2014-2015 year; and Student Government Leader of the Year, 
awarded to former UF Student Body Presi-
dent Cory Yeffet.
Yeffet, 22, said he was honored to be 
nominated, but he didn’t expect to win.UF Student Government 
successful at SEC exchangePaws on Parole brings dogs, inmates together
CAMPUS
By Jaci Schreckengost
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Marston Science Library is intro-
ducing new computers by adding Mac 
desktops along with its pre-existing Dell 
desktops.
Sara Gonzalez, a librarian at Marston, 
said the Mac computers will supplement 
the library’s collection of Dell computers in 
order to better accommodate students with 
the understanding that certain applications run better on Mac computers.
The computers, funded by a collabo-
ration of UF Information Technology and 
the campus libraries, are intended to bring 
more learning and study opportunities to the library.
“I think that will be useful for the stu-
dents that used Macs most of their lives,” said Jenny Wu, a 19-year-old UF business administration sophomore. Wu, a Mac user, said that students won’t be confused 
due to changing computers.
Some PC users disagree with the li-
brary’s use of funds to purchase the new 
Mac laptops, including 18-year-old Taylor 
Thelander, a PC user.
“We could have used that money for 
something else because most college stu-
dents already have a laptop of their own,” said Thelander.
Thelander believes that the funds used 
to purchase the new Macs could have been used on other library resources.
“We’ll have three rows of Dell desktops 
and one row of Mac desktops,” Gonzalez said. “We’re not transitioning to Apple completely, we’re just adding some into the mix.”Marston Library gets MacsDanielle Veenstra/Alligator Staff
Daniel Roth, 6, snuggles his newly adopted boxer, Barney Collier, at the “Paws on  Parole” ceremony.
The dogs were named after characters from the movie “Mission Impossible. ” 
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 8SEE PAWS,  PAGE 8
“I think the plate of food will taste 
better as the year goes on.”
Nicholas Carre 
UF Student Body treasurer Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 166
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Summer Sing concert  
On Monday at 7:30 p.m. at the UF 
Music Building, Room 101, there will be a Summer Sing concert conducted by Joshua L. Mazur. 
It will feature Mozart’s Ave 
Verum Corpus and Schubert’s Mass in G.Admission to the event is free.
Friday night swing dancing at the 
Music BuildingThe Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you to their weekly dance this and every Friday. The club will have a free lesson for beginners and intermediates 
open to everyone from 8 to 9 
p.m., followed by two hours of dancing from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121. No partner or experience needed. For more information, find them on Facebook: facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event to the listed email be-
fore 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Due to current space limitations, 
there are no guarantees for pub-lication. 
HIGH  85° LOW  74°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
CAMPUS
By Sedona Huffty
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Levin College of Law 
was ranked ﬁ  fth in the nation for its 
Family Law Program by Law Street Media, an online legal publication.
Components such as classes of-
fered, employment statistics, net-working opportunities and extra-curricular activities were used to rank universities, said Laura Rosen-bury, dean of the Levin College of Law. 
UF law students receive real-
world experience on campus at the Family Advocacy Clinic, the Inti-mate Partner Violence Assistance Clinic and the Center for Children 
and Families, Rosenbury said.
Families receive legal represen-
tation from law students who are 
receiving class credit by working in the clinics, said Nancy Dowd, a UF family law professor and chair of the Family Law Program. 
One aspect of the Intimate Part-
ner Violence Assistance Clinic is its partnership with the UF medical school, so clients, victims of do-mestic violence and other family-oriented crimes can receive medical therapy while also having legal rep-resentation.
With groups like the UF Family 
Law Society on campus, educating students on the meaning of family law is very important, said Fiorella Franchini, a second-year law stu-dent and the former vice president of the Family Law Society at UF.
“We want students to be 
more informed with family law,” Franchini said.
Society’s deﬁ  nition of family is 
changing and progressing, causing the world of family law to get big-ger as well.
“Increasingly diverse deﬁ  nitions 
of family will lead to increasingly interesting opportunities for family law,” Rosenbury said.
Levin College of Law ranked 5th in nation for family law
502 PEOPLE WERE SURVEYED.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Katy Taggart went to Kenya last summer on 
a wildlife ecology trip and decided to create a UF club.
With her friend Chelsea Weiner, she made 
the Endangered Species Action Club, or Gators ENACT.  Its purpose is to educate people about endangered species, the UF animal science se-nior said. According to a UF survey, Floridians want just that: to be informed.
Of the 502 Floridians surveyed, 60 percent 
said they would like to learn more about the types of endangered species. 
“People don’t typically think about endan-
gered species unless they go to a museum or a zoo,” said Ricky Telg, a UF professor and Cen-ter for Public Issues Education director.
That’s why Taggart will use the club to reach out to students, encouraging them to sign online petitions and attend Fall meetings where environmental advocates will be invited to speak.
“Once people are aware of the plights of 
different species, they become invested in it,” Taggart, 21, said.
Although those surveyed didn’t feel in-
formed about endangered species, Telg said he found it interesting that people wanted to learn more about them. With the survey data, Telg said organizations can begin to “develop sound educational programs to address knowledge gaps.” He said he thinks the more informed someone is, the more willing he or she is to protect endangered species.
To help endangered animals, Taggart said 
students can help by cleaning up trash, recy-
cling and becoming more educated.
The research PIE conducts has the ultimate 
goal of understanding public opinion to make a 
difference, Telg said.
“We’re trying to conduct research that will 
result in positive change,” he said.              Survey: Floridians want to learn about endangered animals“Increasingly diverse 
deinitions of family will lead 
to increasingly interesting 
opportunities for family law.”
Laura Rosenbury
Dean of Levin College of LawNASA recognizes UF researchers 
for plants in space research
A world where life exists on 
another planet may one day be-come a reality, and UF research-
ers are preparing for that day.
NASA recognized Anna-Lisa Paul and Robert Ferl, faculty members in the Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences’ 
horticultural sciences depart-ment, for their experiments on growing plants in space envi-ronments.
“It was really great to be recog-
nized for doing the work you love,” Paul said.Paul and Ferl tested their ideas 
by sending Arabidopsis thaliana 
plant seeds to the International Space Station and examining their growth. The seeds were launched on petri plates and 
kept dormant until they reached 
the space station, where they germinated for 12 to 14 days.One of the first things discov-
ered was certain types of root-
growth strategies that plants exhibit on Earth were similarly displayed in the space station, indicating that gravity is not as 
important for plant growth as 
once believed, Paul said. This led to the hypothesis that in the absence of gravity, light plays 
a bigger role in guiding plant 
growth.Researchers further examined the genes of plants grown in spaceflight in order to under-
stand growth strategies.
“We’re interested in how plants respond at a molecular level; what genes are turned on and 
off as they adjust their me-
tabolism to adapt to whatever the environment is throwing at them,” Paul said.It was discovered that patterns 
of gene expression are different from those found on Earth and 
that plants grow in space by ad-justing their basic metabolism. 
Researchers tracked growth 
through a fluorescent protein imaging system, which took photos of a petri dish every few 
hours, creating a movie of plant 
growth over time.“These answers will help not only in long-term spaceflight, such as with advanced biologi-
cal life support systems and ex-
traterrestrial greenhouses, but also here on Earth by identify-ing previously unknown path-
ways and genes,” said Eric 
Schultz, a UF graduate student studying plant molecular and cellular biology.Paul said it is important to un-
derstand how plants grow in ex-
treme environments in order to help tackle potential problems on Earth, such as rising carbon 
dioxide levels.
“When the time comes to leave Earth’s orbit, we will take plants with us,” she said. “It’s impor-tant to learn how to grow plants 
in other environments other 
than our own backyard.”
— Melissa Brown
Obesity and sleep are inter-
twined
Families with overweight chil-
dren could find hope in a new study observing the effects of 
an inconspicuous contributor 
to weight gain: sleep.Researchers at UF Health will begin a study in the Fall to ob-
serve the effects of sleep pat-
terns on obesity in children. Led by David Janicke, a UF pro-fessor at the College of Public Health and Health Professions, 
and Christina McCrae, a pro-
fessor at the University of Missouri, the five-month study will target 6- to 12-year-olds who are overweight, working 
without medication to regulate 
their sleeping.“Children need to establish these regulatory patterns ear-
ly in life,” Janicke said of a 
healthy, normal sleeping pat-tern. “Improving their sleep may have benefits in terms of weight loss and healthier life-
styles, and that’s really the pur-
pose of the study.”The Pediatric Sleep Study is available to children from 
Alachua County and nearby 
areas with parents willing to attend all treatment sessions. Two months will consist of treatment followed by three months of observation and fol-low-ups to assess long-term im-
pacts of the program, according 
to a press release.Families wishing to partici-pate can call the Pediatric 
Sleep Study to receive more 
information on the study. Paris Wheeler, a project manager of the office, said when interest-ed families call, a member of 
the sleep study team will walk 
them through the expectations of the trial.Sleep affects every aspect of 
daily life including appetite, 
energy levels and hormones, Janicke said. All of these, in turn, collectively contribute to unhealthy diet and lifestyle habits like late-night snacking, fast-food runs and lack of en-
ergy for physical activity.
These factors in children lead to a vicious cycle of weight gain and linked sleeping prob-
lems like trouble breathing and 
hormone imbalances, Janicke said.Most studies use medication to placate worried parents, but 
Janicke said this non-medicat-
ed study will provide a more stable ground for families to grow on.
“The treatment is essentially 
an intervention into the sleep-ing patterns of these children,” Janicke said.
— Lauren BlakelyTHURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Sungwhan Cho / Alligator
People relax in the Steven M. Scott, M.D. and Rebecca J. Scott Commons in the George T. Harrell, M.D. 
Medical Education Building on Tuesday. The commons is the lobby of the new 95,000-square-foot fa-cility at 1104 Newell Drive.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnGreetings and salutations friends! Today we stand upon 
the precipice of a new day, a glorious beginning, and the 
furious onset of an all new, never-before-seen edition of …
 Darts and Laurels
Let us ﬁ  rst get rid of the unpleasant and incompetent so 
we can end the matter on a high note, and by unpleasant and incompetent, I’m referring to an Albuquerque 911 dispatcher 
who abruptly hung up on 17-year-old Esperanza Quintero 
while she attempted to perform CPR on her dying friend. 
Granted, Matthew Sanchez, the dispatcher in question, had 
already contacted the appropriate authorities en route and 
Quintero’s friend would’ve likely perished whether or not San-
chez had cut communications.
But here’s a line of dialogue you should never say to a girl 
desperately trying to pump life into her dying friend:
“OK, you know what ma’am? You could deal with it your-
self. I’m not gonna deal with this OK?”
We understand working as a dispatcher is stressful, but 
Sanchez, you get a dart for being a heartless ass.
Next up, a Florida man by the name of Michael Lee Rob-
erts was arrested after doing doughnuts on a jail lawn with a car. 
For those of you who don’t know what a doughnut is, it’s 
when you spin around in circles with your motor vehicle. 
The details are unclear about his intentions, but he rear-
ended a bench and ran into a ﬂ  ag pole before he was swarmed by the incredulous ofﬁ  cers who watched this happen. 
This is the kind of unfathomable stupidity we award 
darts for.
We at The Alligator are very opposed to the mistreatment of 
children, a sentiment that we’d like to think most people in the world share with us. 
However, we’re sad to say that the sentiment isn’t univer-
sally shared, which is why we learn about stories like how 
15-year-old Adrian Gonzalez kidnapped, assaulted, killed and 
then dumped the body of an 8-year-old girl. 
You’re a horrible person Gonzalez, and you’re fully deserv-
ing of the judge’s choice to have you tried as an adult and the 
deliverance of this follow-up dart from us for being ﬁ  lth.
On a more positive note, want to know what’s awesome? 
We can now transplant hands.
A Baltimore boy by the name of Zion Harvey holds the dis-
tinction of being the ﬁ  rst to receive a double hand transplant, as in they slapped a new pair of hands on his stumps where his 
old hands were. 
Ain’t it neat? ‘Cause the ability to just ﬁ  x amputations is pretty damn 
neat. 
Science for the win. You get a Laurel. This scientiﬁ  c advance alone puts us forward in ﬁ  xing like, 
all the world’s woes. 
Maybe it’s a small step, but a step nonetheless.
Also, Windows 10 just came out, and it’s actually designed 
for a computer and not a phone. 
That statement alone deserves a laurel because learning 
how to use Windows 8 was just plain annoying. 
We at the Alligator tend to use a healthy mix of both Apple 
products and PCs, but damn was Windows 8 just plain unap-
proachable. 
We’ll welcome this new piece of tech because we’re sure 
you’re all looking forward to it. 
We’ll give Microsoft a laurel for use of friendliness.Donald Trump’s the worst, yet he’s the favorite?
Dear readers, we can all agree that Donald 
Trump is the worst, right? I don’t ask that question as if it’s a matter of relativity, or in a “one man’s trash is another man’s treasure” type of way: Is it not universally 
accepted that Donald Trump makes Kim Jong-un look like a reasonable human being in compari-son? At least Kim acts within the established pa-rameters for how a statesman ought to behave in North Korea (that is to say, like a petulant child). No such boundaries exist for the Trump. 
The Trump is a man who casually insults vast swaths of 
the American populace utilizing racist rhetoric, and he still somehow manages to generate headlines like “Strong Show-
ings for Donald Trump in Iowa and New Hampshire Polls.” 
The Trump is the kind of person who asks potential dates to be tested for AIDS before taking them out for dinner — that is 100 percent true, by the way. Despite — or perhaps due to — all of this, the Trumpinator is the leading pick among Republican voters to be their candidate for the 2016 presi-dential campaign.
Several people I’ve spoken to ﬁ  nd it amusing, and I un-
derstand why: We all know that Trump isn’t going to become 
the president of the United States, much less the Republican 
nominee. The amusement stems from the parade of idiocy and hatred that Trump is going to leave in his bronzed, ﬂ  ab-by wake over the next few months. Satirical publication The Onion summed it up best with its ﬁ  ctitious op-ed purportedly written by Trump himself, “Admit It: You People Want To See How Far This Goes, Don’t You?” Following the Trump campaign is no different than watching a particularly terrible reality television show. Both give ordinary people an inside 
look into what happens when an individual acts with utter 
disregard for compassion, decency and his fellow human be-ings. 
From an intellectual perspective, I get it — the runaway 
success of shows like “Breaking Bad” (and yes, “The Ap-prentice”) has illustrated that Americans love to watch bad men do awful things. But on an emotional level, the Trump campaign and the momentum behind it has genuinely dis-turbed me. The prospect of reality television stars running for the highest ofﬁ  ce in the land has long been the stuff of dystopian comedies and satire, with the keyword being “dystopian.” It’s perfectly ﬁ  ne that Americans can’t wait to see what will 
emerge from the Trump camp next; why just the 
other day, an article from The Daily Beast dredged up a 20-year-old deposition from Trump’s divorce with his former wife, Ivana, wherein she accused him of rape.
 It isn’t even the possibility that Trump is prone 
to spousal abuse that horriﬁ  es me (given his inclination to make curt, racist remarks, misogynistic actions aren’t that big of a stretch) but rather, the shockingly high number of 
Americans who ﬁ  nd him, quote, “refreshing.” Many of the 
think pieces analyzing Trump’s success within the Republi-can demographic have revolved around the idea that many Republicans ﬁ  nd him to be a nice change of pace from, and I quote again, “D.C. insiders.” While I would agree that many “D.C. insiders” are reprehensible individuals, at least a siz-able portion carry themselves with an air of dignity, even it it’s patently false and unearned. This is because “D.C. in-siders” are politicians, and a politician (at least in an ideal 
world) ought to represent the best civic society has to offer, 
even under pretense. I don’t need to recount why the Trump-ster doesn’t qualify here, as he’s done a ﬁ  ne job of that on his own. I simply can’t grasp the appeal: How could Trump lead an entire country, when he fails so spectacularly at being a decent human being? 
Like a real-life Gordon Gekko, Donald Trump is an inor-
dinately wealthy, ethically bankrupt businessman who has successfully utilized populist sentiment to convince people 
that he’s “one of us.” Whether his success is a testament 
to his abilities as a snake oil salesman, or to the gullibility of Americans, both explanations are tragic. Real American politicians have already made a mockery of the political pro-cess — let’s not let Trump disﬁ  gure it beyond the ability to be recognized.  
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Just like with anything else you own, 
if you take care of your car it will look newer longer and its aesthetics 
will last longer. Here is a simple list 
of ways to detail your car and tips for 
keeping it looking fresh.
1.     Wash your car. Yeah, this is ru-
dimentary stuff, but so many people just don’t wash their cars. 
In four years of college, I don’t think I 
ever lived with a roommate who washed her car.
In general, dirty cars do not look ap-
pealing, but abstaining from car washes can cause long-term damage to paint. 
Sap from trees can eat through clear 
coat causing what looks like permanent water spots. 
Bug guts from the highway can eat 
through paint as well, causing the loss of paint in unappealing chips. 
Also, don’t take it to the car wash if you 
can help it. Especially not the automatic drive throughs.
Cars can sustain body damage and 
sometimes lose parts from the rough and tumble of the automated wash. 
Self-service is not nearly as 
bad, but don’t ever let anyone 
tell you that high-pressure wash-
es are good for paint. 
And please avoid any type of 
chemical cleaning agents they 
offer like bug remover or tire 
cleaner. 
Turtle Wax has some great 
tips for some more speciﬁ  c issues like re-moving stickers and bugs: turtlewax.com/
pro-tips.
2.     Wax. Stepping it up a notch. 
Don’t let waxing intimidate you! Re-
mind yourself that if you wax your car you 
don’t have to wash it as much. 
It is worth it in the long run. Some 
masochistic people like me use a four-step 
wax, but you don’t need to do all that. 
You can just go buy a bottle of simple 
wax from Turtle, Meguiar’s or Mother’s, or if you’re feeling really ambitious, try a two-step wax: cleaner wax and then pol-ish. If you have a dark-colored or black car 
like me, deﬁ  nitely invest in black wax.3.     Protect your interior. 
Invest in a $10 sunshade or a 
tint job. 
My aunt puts towels on her 
seats to keep them from fading, but that’s a bit ridiculous. 
Don’t do that. 
Getting tinted windows is re-
ally the best thing you can do, 
and the sunshade works wonders 
as well. 
There is not much you can do once the 
interior has faded from the sun or the dash-board material begins to crack or peel. 
Take these preventive measures and 
you’ll have a nicer interior and a cooler car 
during the boiling summer months.
4.     Clean your interior. 
Take trash out of your car, clean the liq-
uids that spilled in the cup holder or any-where else, etc. 
Just clean. Cars need to be dusted. It seems weird, 
but check your dashboard: there is dust. 
The accumulation of dust, like on a 
household surface, can get pretty gross, so don’t forget about it when you’re cleaning. 
If you use lotion on your hands and then 
get in your car, that lotion causes a build-
up on the steering wheel and anything else 
you regularly touch in the car. 
It can also permanently fade and wear 
paint and coatings off the leather or plastic.
5.     Clean your headlights. People forget about headlights. Headlights used to be glass but now 
most, if not all, are made from plastic. 
Whether your car is new or old they can 
get cloudy, resulting in icky-looking lamps and a dim beam.
The state of your car reﬂ  ects on you. It doesn’t matter if you don’t have a 
brand-new Benz. 
Don’t let what you drive stop you from 
taking care of something you may be stuck with for a while. 
You’ll feel happier walking up to what-
ever you drive if it is clean and notewor-
thy.
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Thursdays.How to detail your car and tips for keeping it clean so it lasts longerColumn
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.orgBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Starting with the Spring 2016 Student Gov-
ernment election cycle, qualifying candidates 
for executive positions from all political parties will be required to participate in a lone SG-sponsored debate.
Candidates who don’t attend the debate, 
which will be overseen by the supervisor of 
elections, will be disqualified. A transcript of 
the debate — as well either a video or audio recording — will also need to be made avail-able to the public within 48 hours of the de-bate’s end, a problem that surfaced with the debate sponsored by SG’s Freshman Leader-ship Council during last Spring’s elections.
The debate updates are one of about a 
dozen changes that will be implemented inside SG following the approval of the seven sets of Student Body Statute reforms at Tuesday’s Stu-dent Senate meeting.
Led by Chairman Ty Robare (Swamp, Busi-
ness Administration), the 13-person Compre-hensive Statute Reform ad-hoc committee spent about 15 hours over nine weeks this 
Summer preparing reforms to the statutes.
Revisions to the 800 codes, a 39-page set of 
codes revolving around finances and the final 
chapter in the Student Body Statutes, are still being made.
In addition to the debate changes, other ap-
proved reforms in the statutes include requir-ing the executive committee to meet at least once every two weeks and changing the SG 
General Assembly to a State of the Campus 
Address, among others.
Majority Party Leader Charlie Brown Jr. 
(Swamp, Agriculture) supported the changes made by the committee and said the code revi-sions aid to protect the students and provide for transparency.
“I believe it delivers on that job,” Brown 
said. “To insinuate or think anything other 
than that, I think is misguided.”
While the majority of the Senate expressed 
its support for the reforms, a group of five Sen-
ators — Minority Party Leader Michael Christ (Access, Graduate), Sen. Preston Jones (Ac-cess, Hume), Sen. Hammaad Saber (Access, Engineering), Sen. Reina Saco (Access, Law) and Sen. Daniella Saetta (Access, Graduate) — 
pushed for amendments throughout the night, 
looking to either add clarity or eliminate what they viewed as unneeded changes.
Overall, 27 amendments were requested, 
with 22 coming from those five Senators.
Thirteen minor changes were approved 
throughout the night, with eight being friendly amendments agreed upon prior to the meeting. Three of those eight involved replacing the ab-
breviation “EST” — Eastern Standard Time — 
with the phrase “local time.”
All amendments that involved any sort of 
policy change not initially created by the com-mittee — from removing the voting rights of the Budget & Appropriations chairperson in the executive committee to changing five counts of the word “guilty” to “at fault” — were all re-jected by at least 75 percent of the Senators.
The main argument for the denial of the 
policy-changing amendments was a lack of time to discuss changes that could negate what the committee worked throughout the summer to accomplish.
But Saber said debate is an essential part of 
Senate, regardless of the amount of time given to prepare, a message that echoed from last week’s meeting.
“If it’s something that needs to be discussed 
because it wasn’t discussed at the committee, then it needs to be addressed,” Saber said. “And that can be done on the Senate floor.”8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
He said he was proud of UF taking home the Stu-
dent Government of the Year award, because the 
changes and programs were a group effort.
“That to me is so much more fulfilling than an in-
dividual award,” he said.
Programs from the 2014-2015 SG year included: the 
partnership between UF and Uber, which offers stu-dents a 50 percent discount within a designated area and time; the Walk Safe program, which was imple-
mented after a string of assaults on campus; and the 
addition of four SNAP vans.
The goal was to enhance student safety, Yeffet said.Being able to secure a $10 million budget to reno-
vate Newell Hall to provide students with more study space was also an achievement for SG, he added.
UF Senate President Davis Bean, one of the seven 
members who attended the conference, said it was a productive trip that gave them the chance to observe other SG systems.
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, 
who also attended the trip, said it made her confident SG can come together to collaborate on ideas and ini-tiatives for the upcoming year.
Carre congratulated the senators at the meeting for 
the 2016-2017 budget, which he said reflects the bal-ance of cost associated with expanding student ser-vices.
While other student governments receive money 
from their schools, he said, UF SG has the power to control the fees and funds of student services, allow-ing SG to have a tangible impact on the Student Body.          AWARDS,  from pg 1SG took home 
three awards
she said.
Both women were given certificates 
that recognize their work with the dogs. 
After Butler was given hers, she smiled and turned away.
“Stand up here, Tina, please,” Darnell 
said to her while graduation guests took photos. “This is your creation.”
And the dogs owe their training to the 
inmates, who care for them like they were their own animals.
While they were sad to see the dogs go, 
Rivera and Butler smiled throughout the entire graduation ceremonies, especially when they were presented with certifi-cates highlighting their accomplishments.
“That is a precious document that 
means a lot and represents a lot of blood, sweat and tears,” Darnell said.
Everyone gathered for a group photo 
after certificates were given to the women, and pictures of the dogs, along with gift baskets of treats and toys, were gifted to the adoptive families.
As 6-year-old Daniel Roth, one of Bar-
ney’s siblings, hugged his new dog, cor-rections officer Scott posed for the photo.
“We’re saving dogs and inmates at the 
same time,” Scott said.PAWS,  from pg  180 percent of inmates not returning to jail
Danielle Veenstra/Alligator Staff
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell hugs and holds Rollin Hand, an Australian Shepherd, during the “Paws on 
Parole” graduation ceremony Wednesday at the Alachua County Jail. 
 Melissa Gomez/Alligator Staff
Ty Robare, Comprehensive Statute Reform ad -hoc committee, gives his committee 
report at Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting  for the second reading of the reforms.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Senate debates amendments, finalizes code revisions
“That to me is so much more fulfilling than an 
individual award.”
Cory Yeffet
former UF Student Body presidentKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Cave of Swimmers to perform at the Atlantic
The Miami-based duo will perform Saturday, pg 12.What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game, pg 10.Drake vs. Meek Mill insider, pg 11.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Comedian Shane Mauss is com-
ing to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time, equipped with jokes about every-thing from bad LSD trips to psy-chedelic experiences.
The comedian, who has ap-
peared on Conan, The Tonight Show and Jimmy Kimmel, will be performing Wednesday at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. 
Doors will open at 9 p.m., and 
the show begins at 10. Tickets are available for $10 at the door or for $7 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com.
According to Pat Lavery, owner 
of Glory Days Presents, High Dive has previously brought in big-name stand-up comedians such as Ralphie May, Doug Benson and Brian Posehn. Lavery wrote in an email that High Dive is happy to add Mauss, whom he recognized for his unique style, to the list.
Mauss’ “This Is Your Shane On 
Drugs” tour is exclusive to three independent venues in Florida where he will be conducting trials of his new material. The material is drawn from Mauss’ experiences with psychedelics.
 “I kind of like to take a subject 
and explore it from some scientiﬁ  c angles and share my stories about my own experiences too,” Mauss said.
Over the years, Mauss has told 
some stories about his experiences at shows, but he’s never performed an entire show with the material. 
Now, he’s made that his goal.“I have a podcast where I go 
around talking with scientists about why we behave the way we do and how the mind works and that sort of thing,” Mauss said. “And psychedelics are a little bit of a window into that so I’m kind of combining a little bit of scien-tiﬁ  c jokes but mostly psychedelic jokes.”
Mauss will take viewers 
through the idea of consciousness as well as perception and how it can be “wacky sometimes on non-drug related stuff.” 
The routine will include a story 
about a bad LSD trip Mauss expe-rienced 15 years ago.
 It makes for a pretty funny sto-
ry, he said.Because of the stigma attached, Mauss said he can’t make cer-
tain jokes in an average comedy club, but he believes he’ll be able to show an interesting and differ-ent perspective while telling some of his favorite jokes.
“Like, when I do tell them at 
clubs they go over really, really well,” Mauss said. “But I just cant do like, a whole hour of that.”
On his off nights, Mauss de-
cided to start ﬁ  nding independent venues where he could do his unique act for fans. If it goes well, he plans to record the material and perform it nationally.
“These are actually like really 
special shows for me, and I’m not just saying that,” Mauss said.
Mauss said he looks forward 
to being able to let loose and per-form the show, especially because of the monotony that comes with telling the same jokes each night as a comic.
 “This is going to be a really 
good time for me to kind of experi-ment and open up and really have fun,” Mauss said. “And whenever a comic is having fun on stage, the audience will have fun as well.”THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Comedian Shane Mauss, who has been featured on Conan, The T onight Show and Jimmy Kim-mel, will perform his latest material at 9 p.m. on Wednesday at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave.
Shane Mauss to talk psychedelics
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, JULY 31
Wester Joseph’s Stereo Vudu
The Atlantic Nightspot
15 N. Main St.
Doors 9 p.m. | Price TBA
THIS WEEKEND 
IN GAINESVILLE
The comedian will speak W ednesdayThe Wolfpack
The Hippodrome State Theatre
25 SE Second Place
8:30 p.m. | $7.50, Student $5.50
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SATURDAY, AUGUST 1
Gainesville Zine Fest
Civic Media Center
433 S. Main St.
Event 2 p.m., Concert 9 p.m. | Free
Felicity, Eve of November, Head Full 
of Deadweight, and Love Nectar
Concert at 8-Bit Bar
919 W. University Ave.
8:30 p.m. | Advance $5, Doors $7
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SUNDAY, AUGUST 2
The Jeff Jensen Band
High Dive
210 SW Second Ave.
7 p.m. | $15
Dance Performance
Harn Museum of Art
3259 Hull Road
3 p.m. | Free event10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
By Laura Gomez
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
 Stewie says something rude to Lois
 Peterʼs gullibility gets him into trouble
 Peter is fascinated with something silly
 Brian tries to be politically correct
 Thereʼs a scene at The Drunken Clam
Take a shot when…
 Peter gets drunk
 Quagmire says “Giggity”
 Someone makes fun of Meg
 Thereʼs a joke about a celebrity
Finish your drink…
 To catch up with Peter when heʼs drunk
 When Stewie cross dresses
 During every ﬂ  ashbackLucky there’s a family guy 
who’s delivered entertainment to 
your home since ’99? Well now 
you’re also lucky there’s a “Fam-
ily Guy” binge drinking game to help stir up a few more laughs — and hopefully a lot more drinks.
The animated adult comedy is 
centered on the warm-yet-boor-ish Peter Grifﬁ  n and his diverse family in their Quahog, Rhode Island, home. With a genius evil baby who no one seems to un-
derstand and a talking dog that 
everyone seems to understand, the Grifﬁ  ns’ everyday lives tend to spiral out of control almost 
as easily as they spring back to 
“normal.” Sounds a lot like col-lege to me.With 12 seasons currently 
streaming on Netﬂ  ix, there’s more than enough material to 
catch a buzz while enjoying a 
classic that’s lived in our homes and hearts before most of us were even legally allowed to watch it. 
So grab a beer and get to bing-
ing as you follow the gang and their questionable antics.THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Last week, rapper Meek Mill put the inter-
net in a chokehold when he claimed that rap-
per Drake doesn’t write his own lyrics. 
The barb, one of many he tweeted in the 
Grammy-winner’s direction that evening, 
sparked debate within the music world, ﬁ  rst 
about the legitimacy of the allegations, and second about its history.
“Stop comparing Drake to me too,” Meek 
tweeted on July 21. “He don’t write his own raps.”
Speciﬁ  cally, Meek pointed a ﬁ  nger at 
Drake’s featured verse on “R.I.C.O.,” a song from Meek’s latest album. He purported to have found out the verse was written by some-one else.
He added, “If I woulda knew I woulda took 
it off my album….I don’t trick my fans! Lol.”
At the peak of his tirade, Meek tweeted 
out the name of Atlanta-based rapper Quen-tin Miller, who was credited as a co-writer on four songs from Drake’s most recent album, “If You’re Reading This It’s Too Late.”
Adding fuel to the ﬁ  re, radio disc jockey 
Funk Master Flex publicly sided with Meek, later releasing an audio recording of Quentin 
Miller’s alleged rapping of a song sounding 
nearly identical to Drake’s “10 Bands.”
The DJ eventually would go on to state he 
had three more of these “reference” songs he received from someone close to the situation.With this, the stage was set for online an-
archy, and fans were quickly taking sides. In a conversation with a friend on Instagram, 
Drake said: “I signed up for greatness, this 
comes with it.”
Four days later, on his Beats 1 radio show 
“OVO Sounds,” Drake released a trio of songs, one titled “Charged Up.”
On the record, Drake calmly brushed off 
the allegations, taking subtle but personal jabs at Meek: “Wow, I’m hon-ored that you think this is 
staged. I’m ﬂ  attered, man, 
in fact I’m amazed.”
Alluding to Meek’s rela-
tionship with rapper Nicki Minaj: “No woman ever had me star struck or was able to tell me to get my bars up. I’m charged up.”
Whether Drake actually relies on songwrit-
ers or not remains to be seen, but this feud has effectively pried open a decades-old scar that the hip-hop community has done a great job ignoring — until now.
Since the birth of the music industry, artists 
have sought the help of writers to ﬂ  esh ideas out and ultimately produce applaudable mu-sic. But to many, hip-hop is viewed as a more personal genre, and since its dawn, rappers 
have touted lyrical marksmanship as the basis 
of their fame, identifying more with poets than pop stars.
But now, hip-hop is pop.The hip-hop songs that do any real chart 
climbing are usually ﬁ  zzy by nature and re-volve around a catchy chorus and bouncy 
rhythm; what lies in between is generally an 
after-thought.
When rap music accounts for more than 
half of what’s trending chart-wise, it follows that most of these rappers likely enlist the help of writers at some point in their careers. To what extent this happens is still generally ig-
nored, swept under the rug.
But in reality, it’s as old 
as the genre itself.
Widely considered the 
ﬁ  rst commercial hip-hop song, Sugar Hill Gang’s 1979 “Rapper’s Delight,” 
contains chunks of lyrics stolen from Grandmaster Caz, who never received 
any type of credit.
It’s also widely publicized that N.W.A rap-
per Ice Cube wrote much of the rhymes co-members Eazy-E and Dr. Dre recorded while part of the group in the late 1980s and early ‘90s.
The Notorious B.I.G. is credited as a writer 
on Lil Kim’s 1996 song “Queen Bitch.” Audio exists of him rapping the song, believed to be a reference track Kim used for the subsequent 
album version.
Rapper Sauce Money is acknowledged for 
writing most of Diddy’s words on his 1997 
single “We’ll Be Missing You,” a tribute to the fallen B.I.G. The song would go on to win a Grammy award for Best Performance by a Duo or Group.
In an interview with XXL, Snoop Dogg ad-
mitted to using the words of other rappers for his 2009 “Malice in Wonderland” album.
“I got a couple of my little homies that’s 
putting the pen to the paper,” he said. “I be let-ting my homies get on by writing and express-ing they thoughts through me.”
A couple years later, in 2011, Method Man 
revealed to Complex that the majority of rap-
per Ol’ Dirty Bastard’s lyrics on his “Return to 
the 36 Chambers” album were primarily con-jured by fellow Wu-Tang members GZA and RZA, along with Method Man himself.
Still, many refuse to accept these well-doc-
umented cases as anything other than isolated incidents.
As far as the current beef goes, Meek 
Mill has yet to respond on-record to Drake’s 
“Charged Up.” He did, however, do a lot of 
tweeting, calling Drake’s attempt “baby lotion soft,” admitting he could tell the rapper wrote it.
Meanwhile, on Wednesday Drake yet again 
took aim at his accuser with a new song, “Back to Back Freestyle.” While tempo-wise it’s a po-lar opposite to the initial diss record, the song touches on similar topics, albeit in a more no-
holds-barred manner:
“This for y’all that think I don’t write 
enough. They just mad ‘cause I got the Midas 
touch.”
DRAKE AND MEEK MILL GO #BACKTOBACK IN FEUD ff the Record
Meek
 Drake
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Imagine a night at the opera. 
Now get rid of the orchestra, 
keep the iron lungs, toss in some 
drums and a howling guitar. Now 
rinse in distortion and repeat.
On Saturday night, Miami duo 
Cave of Swimmers will introduce 
their unique fusion of doom met-
al and prog-rock to the Atlantic Nightspot, located at 15 N. Main St. Tickets will be sold exclusive-ly at the entrance for $6. Doors 
open at 9 p.m.
The band will play cuts off 
their sophomore album, “Reﬂ  ec-
tions,” as well as their debut ef-
fort “Cave of Swimmers.”
Local thrashers Thunderclap, 
Widow and Children, and Heat 
Rash will be joining the band throughout the night.
“This is guaranteed to be one 
of the loudest shows of the sum-mer,” said Thomas Rankine, bar manager at The Atlantic. “So you better bring earplugs!”
Originally hailing from Cara-
cas, Venezuela, Cave of Swim-mers, composed of lead singer and multi-instrumentalist G.E. Perez and drummer Arturo Gar-
cia, currently resides in Miami, 
where the two can be found cramped in a garage churning out carnage-laced epics.
“We get in this really small 
room, and we just jam,” Garcia said of the creative process. “We usually ﬂ  esh it out between the two of us.”
Garcia and Perez met in the 
fourth grade while still living in South America. By age 15, they were covering songs by Metallica and Rage Against the Machine, 
but the vision of making a career 
out of their own music lingered.
Once Garcia moved to the Flor-
ida in 2004 to study music at the 
University of Miami, Perez fol-
lowed suit and moved to Florida a few years later, Garcia said. The childhood friends began traveling with other musicians and play-
ing small gigs, but the duo didn’t emerge until 2012.
“When we ﬁ  rst started the 
band, we were called The Tun-nel,” Garcia said. “But due to copyright issues with an older 
band, we were forced to change the name. We had a song titled 
‘Cave of Swimmers,’ so we went 
with that,” he said.
The name references a cavern 
in Egypt where, in 1933, a Hungar-
ian explorer uncovered detailed 
etchings on its walls believed to be thousands of years old. The location appears throughout “The English Patient,” a 1996 drama 
based on a novel.
“It can also be a metaphor for 
a womb,” Garcia added.
The duo’s unusual stage pres-
ence makes the live shows a 
must-see. Perez can be heard wailing on his guitar and push-ing synth pedals with his feet, all the while belting out lead vocals. 
Garcia’s nimble percussion adds 
depth to the doom.
“We really give it our all, you 
know?” Garcia said. “G.E. (Perez) 
is all over the place, shaking his 
head. He transforms.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Miami-based duo Cave of Swimmers will perform at 9 p.m. on 
Saturday at the Atlantic Nightspot, located at 15 N. Main St.By Patricia Rosario
Avenue Writer
The UF School of Theatre and Dance 
will host the ﬁ  nal performances of the 2015 
Swamp Dance Fest this weekend.
Directed by choreographer and UF fac-
ulty member Trent D. Williams Jr., the in-tensive, which began on July 6, will come to an end Sunday.
It combined a rigorous schedule of 
classes, rehearsals, performances and art-ist talks where students, faculty and guest 
instructors from different backgrounds col-
laborated on various dances that have at-tracted audiences from around the state.  
“They’ll be dancing from a very honest 
and truthful place,” Williams said of the 
performers. “I think the audience will be 
captivated in a way that will allow them to relate their own personal story, personal relationships, toward the work.”  
In addition to directing this year’s festi-
val, Williams collaborated with Mohamed Dacosta, senior lecturer at the UF School of Theatre and Dance, to create a new dance that merged contemporary and West Afri-
can styles respectively.  
Other teaching faculty and guest artists 
include Iyun Ashani Harrison and Helanius 
J. Wilkins. Harrison, a Juilliard School 
graduate and the founder and artistic di-
rector of Seattle-based Ashani Dances, is known for exploring the athleticism and 
deep emotional articulations of the hu-
man body through dance. Helanius, whose work is known for pushing the boundaries of male identity in society, is the award-winning artistic director of Edgeworks 
Dance Theatre, a Washington, D.C.-based 
dance company.  
At the height of the Black Lives Matter 
movement, Williams feels the performanc-es will shine a positive light on African-American men in society by showcasing the capacity of their work and skill set. 
Esrom Williams Jr., a senior dance ma-
jor and student participant, said this year’s show has been the strongest summer in-tensive yet due to the level of diversity among students and faculty. 
“All the pieces are different in their own 
way and I think it’s created a melting pot in and of itself,” Esrom, 23, said. “I know it’s going to create a lot of artistic ques-tions, but more than that will be a reﬂ  ec-
tion of both personal and societal ques-
tions as well.” 
Esrom said there will be energy on top 
of energy throughout four African-Ameri-
can presenters, as well as abstract and lit-
eral pieces.  
The closing performances will run from 
Thursday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the G-6 Stu-
dio of the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and 
Dance Pavilion.  
Tickets are $17 for the general public 
and $13 for students, UF faculty and staff, 
and senior citizens. 
Tickets are available through the Uni-
versity Box Ofﬁ  ce located at Gate 1 of the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center by calling 352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.com. Tick-
ets can also be purchased at the Constans 
Theatre Box Ofﬁ  ce starting 45 minutes pri-or to the performance. 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
The 2015 Swamp Dance Fest’s closing shows will be held from 7:30 p.m. to-
night through Saturday night. The last peformance will be at 2 p.m. on Sunday.
Cave of Swimmers to perform at the Atlantic on Saturday
MUSICSwamp Dance Fest to hold 
ﬁ  nal shows this weekend
“I think the audience will be captivated 
in a way that will allow them to relate 
their own personal story, personal 
relationships, toward the work.”  
Trent D. Williams Jr.
choreographerTHURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2 bedroom apt for rent, 10 minutes from campus. Nice community. Furnished. Asking $585. First month down. No central heat/AC, no pets, no smoking/drinking/drugs. Grad stu-dent preferred. Call Mr. Parker 352-213-5942    8-2-15-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    8-6-15-8-1
Countryside 4000 SW 23rd St, Furnished,  pool view,  bus lines 9 & 35, $385/room/mo. Yr lease, $250 dep, $150 elec allow. Cable & Internet incl, studious-nonsmoking. Not a party place. No pets. Bonus avail. for bring -
ing roommates. 4 rooms avail (1 now & 3 Aug 4th). Call 941 661 7865 lv. msg    8-17-15-7-1DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
Fully Renovated 4/2 Apartments@ University Commons $449/room. Includes new kitchen appliances, granite counter tops, porcelain tile, new furniture, cable, internet, and utilities. Call Tony at 352-284-3131    8-6-15-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
7-30-15-30-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-30-15-13-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 & 4/3 apt. homes. Starting at $1175.
Parking included.
Walking distance to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-9-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE Near Law School
Tile floors, big yard. Avail Aug 1st. $1800/mo. Call 352-258-0025    8-4-15-4-2
Avail 4 bdrm Houses/Rooms!Rent House or Room2635 W Univ $1500305 NW 28th $1800call Eric 352-6827424     8-17-15-5-2
Units for Rent, Near UF
● 3/2 house, 1-mile to Law School $975/mon
● 2 /2.5 in Casablanca $750/monClassic Prop of N FL, Inc / 352-331-2100     8-24-15-5-2    Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Looking for college student or young profes-sional to share furn. 2BR/2BA, 2 story condo (Woods Edge) Quiet complex on residential St.between Mall & UF $500/mo + Util. Avail. Aug. 1 Text 352-281-1891 or 352-262-2248 8-4-15-4-5
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Subleases 1For Rent
furnished1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE 
& SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    7-30-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-1298 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    7-30-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
DELIVERY DRIVER
The Independent Florida Alliagtor is looking 
for a VERY DEPENDABLE route driver
Early morning route, five days per week*
Starting in August 2015
(*Publication days vary according to the 
University of Florida class schedule.)
Applicant must have reliable transportation 
and be able to transport
multiple bundles of newpapers.
The route takes approximately 2 hours and 
includes drops along Newberry Road west 
to Jonesville, Tower Road, and along SW 
20th Ave. as well as some on Archer Road
Please inquire and apply in person at
1105 West University Avenue.
Monday through Friday
between 8am & 4pm.
No calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds10 For SaleTHURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, with
good customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.  7-30-15-9-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14Gator Dining Serviceslocated on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.     7-30-15-7-14
Oaks Veterinary HospitalHIRING Receptionists & TechsLooking for hardworking pre-vets who are willing to learn        Experience a plusSend resume to oaksvet@gmail.com    7-30-15-5-14p/t office/home cleaner needed if interested please contact Caleitha@352-214-0868..must own a reliable car and be able to pass a background/drug test.. paying $8/hr    7-30-5-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Full-time Preschool/Kindergarten Assistant Teacher at Millhopper Montessori SchoolFull-time Assistant Preschool/Kindergarten teacher. Benefits available, 401k included. Please email mmschool@millhopper.com    7-30-15-5-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring Bartenders/Deli Help. Accepting applications at both 5156 S W 34th St and 2327 N W 13th St locations. Must have reliable transporta-tion and some daytime availability.    7-30-15-3-14
Chef/Cook Wanted.
Looking for a cook to work 9-5 Monday 
through Friday. For more information please 
email gainesvillecook@gmail.com    8-17-
15-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible Hours!
Positions Available:
Event Supervisor, Warehouse Staff, Cook
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
8-17-15-5-14
JANITORIAL WORK
3:30 pm - 6:30 pm   Mon thru FriMust have experience, pass background check, work well with others. Send resume via fax 352-373-6012 or email info@allcleanfl.com    8-24-15-5-14
HELP WANTEDINDIVIDUAL TO DO YARD WORK
Flexible hours. Call for info - 352-378-5247    
8-24-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    7-30-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    7-30-1-14Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    7-30-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    7-30-1-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers – 2 CPM Pay Increase! $2k Sign-On BonusGreat Miles and PayLove your Job and TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com    7-30-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
8-17-15-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. GEOGRAPHY: Drake Passage is 
directly south of which continent?
2. U.S. CITIES: Independence Hall 
is located in which city?
3. LANGUAGE: What is a shaggy 
dog story? 
4. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Lady Chatterley’s Lover”?
5. MUSIC: Who composed “Clair de 
Lune”? 
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: When did 
Franklin Roosevelt contract polio? 
7. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is 
represented in the condition called 
“iophobia”?
8. TELEVISION: Who voices the 
character of Mr. Burns on “The Simp-sons”?
9. HISTORY: When did the Warsaw 
Ghetto Uprising begin? 
10. ENTERTAINMENT: Which 
entertainer’s nickname was “Satch-mo,” short for “Satchel Mouth”?
Answers
1. South America 2. Philadelphia  3. A long-winded and often pointless 
anecdote
4. D.H. Lawrence5. Debussy6. 19217. A fear of poison8. Harry Shearer9. 1943
10. Trumpeter and singer Louis 
Armstrong
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 27, 2015 King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-15-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    7-30-1-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    7-30-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    7-30-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
RED'S TAVERN Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike 
Night, Wed.-Ladies Night, Th.-Men's Night, 
Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-Free Pool/$1 
PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student 
ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978 8-17-5-
21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.CABIN RENTALS! GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS Pigeon Forge / Gatlinburg Tenn From $89/nt Local dinner shows & at-tractions 888-473-9455    7-30-1-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    7-30-1-16
Oxygen Concentrator InogenOne - Regain Independence. Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks! 100% Portable Long-Lasting Battery. Try It RISK-FREE! For Cash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    7-30-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
20 Event Notices 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsTHURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Vote online
Cast your vote for UF's Best
Male Athlete online at www.alligator.org/sportsFormer UF softball player Bailey Castro has been named the Assistant Softball Coach at Palm Beach Atlantic University,  the university announced Wednesday. JUST SOME HACK
Deﬂ  ategate has been blown out of pro-portion, and Tom Brady has no one to blame but himself.
On Jan. 22, the New England Pa-
triots quarterback stood in front of 
the world with the chance to treat the alleged 
rules violation with the triviality it deserved. 
Asked whether he knew anything about 
the underinﬂ  ated balls the team used dur-ing the ﬁ  rst half of the AFC Championship game, Brady could have given a simple an-swer: yes.
He could have said he made a mistake, or maybe that the equipment staff went further than he had intend-ed. Anything that resembled tak-ing responsibility for the situation would have deﬂ  ated — sorry, I 
had to — the situation right then 
and there, and he likely would have never come close to a sus-pension.
But instead, the two-time NFL 
MVP and sure-ﬁ  re future Hall of Famer decided to protect his image, denying any wrongdoing or knowledge of the inci-dent and sending us all spiraling down the rabbit hole for the last ﬁ  ve months and counting.
If he was actually innocent, 
then ﬁ  ne. The Ted Wells inves-
tigation was the perfect oppor-
tunity for Brady and his camp to clear his name.
But rather than fully coop-
erating, Brady refused to give Wells any access to text mes-
sages sent between the quarterback and the equipment staff, including the self-described “deﬂ  ator.” And according to the NFL’s state-ment released Monday upholding Brady’s four-game suspension, not only did the quar-terback deny investigators access, but he or-dered his cell phone destroyed. 
Brady claims he routinely destroys his old 
phones for security reasons, but if you knew you had done nothing wrong, why would you destroy evidence that could prove your innocence?
I’ve heard the analogy that in the same 
Brady continues to escalate Deﬂ  ategate, and it's ruining his NFL reputationALLIGATOR AWARDS
The Alligator Awards continue 
this week, with the ﬁ  fth award 
being for “Best Male Athlete.” Editor-in-chief Jordan McPherson and staff writer Ian Cohen join al-ligatorSports editors Graham Hall, Luis Torres and Graham Hack in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Cohen: Schwarz delivers 
for UF
In his ﬁ  rst season, JJ Schwarz 
did things freshmen aren’t sup-
posed to do.
He led Florida with 18 home 
runs, 73 RBIs and a .629 slugging percentage, numbers that ranked 
tied for fourth, third, and 32nd in the 
nation, respectively. His best stretch 
came during six days in April, when 
Schwarz hit seven home runs over 
the span of four games.
His play grabbed the attention 
of collegiate baseball experts every-
where, as the freshman collected 
numerous postseason accolades, 
including the National Collegiate 
Baseball Writers Association Fresh-man Hitter of the Year and the Lou-isville Slugger Co-Freshman of the 
Year.
On a UF team that also includ-
ed juniors Richie Martin, Harrison 
Bader and senior Josh Tobias — all selected in the ﬁ  rst 10 rounds of 
June’s MLB draft  — it was Schwarz 
that consistently displayed the most 
power and maturity at the plate.
At his age, and with the produc-
tion and versatility he provided UF 
as both catcher and designated hit-
ter, Schwarz deserves to be named 
the Best Male Athlete.
Hack: Fowler showcases his pro potential
There were a lot of great male 
athletes at UF last year, but only one signed a contract worth more than $23 million after the season concluded.
That would be Dante Fowler Jr., 
former Gator and current Jackson-ville Jaguar defensive lineman.
When the 2014 season started, 
Fowler was considered one of the best defensive linemen in the South-
eastern Conference. When it was 
over, he had become the best draft eligible defensive player in the na-tion — at least according to the NFL Draft.Fowler was selected third overall 
by Jacksonville, the ﬁ  rst non-quar-terback taken and the ﬁ  rst defensive 
player off the board.
He impressed the scouts by rack-
ing up 60 tackles and 8.5 sacks dur-
ing his junior season despite rou-tinely facing double teams.
Take Fowler off of that defense 
— a defense that ranked 44th na-
tionally with 30 team sacks — 
and there’s a good chance Florida doesn’t go bowling in 2014.
Obviously, the Jaguars believe 
that to be the case. They still gave him a fully-guaranteed contract even after the rookie tore the ACL in his left knee on the ﬁ  rst day of rookie minicamp. Money talks.
Hall: Dressel sets UF 
records
As a freshman, Caeleb Dressel 
set UF records and nearly set a na-tional record in arguably the most athletic sport on the planet.
He was named the Southeastern 
Conference Freshman of the Week three times last season before be-ing named to the SEC All-Freshman Team and ultimately being declared 
the SEC Freshman Swimmer of the 
Year.
And Dressel only got stronger and faster as the season progressed.
At his ﬁ  rst SEC Championships, 
Dressel captured the 100-yard but-terﬂ  y (45.28 seconds) with his sea-son-best performance in the event.
And on the big stage, Dressel 
didn’t disappoint.
On the ﬁ  rst day of competition 
at the 2015 NCAA Championships, Dressel won ﬁ  rst place in the 50-yard freestyle (18.67 seconds).
That time isn’t just a UF record 
— it’s one-hundredth of a second 
off the record for fastest-ever time 
in the 50-yard freestyle swim by an 
American. 
He’s the ﬁ  rst Gator to ever win 
the award, and now holds UF re-cords in the 50-yard freestyle, 100-
yard freestyle and the 200-yard 
medley relay.
Swimming requires superior ath-
leticism, and as a freshman, Dres-sel outpaced the competition to be-
come the Best Male Athlete at UF. 
McPherson: Tobias breaks 
through in senior year
This argument really comes 
down to one thing: Consistency.
The winner should be the athlete 
who had not just one or two stand-
out moments, but rather the one who had a solid season and regu-larly played better than the rest of the ﬁ  eld.
And that person, without a 
doubt, is Josh Tobias.
You might not remember Tobias 
for his home run prowess, but the senior third baseman and cleanup hitter was hands down the best player on the UF baseball team this year (sorry, Ian. JJ doesn’t make the cut).
Defensively, Tobias had just one 
error in 141 chances at the toughest Who was the Best Male Athlete at Florida during the 2014-15 season? 
Alligator File Photo
Dante Fowler Jr. hypes up the crowd during Florida's 28-20 win the Birmingham Bowl against East Carolina on Jan. 3 at Legion Field. 
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 19
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 18
"One week until our players report for pre-season camp. Ready to get this thing going! #GoGators"
Jim McElwain (@CoachMcElwain)
UF football head coach
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
way you would never let law en-
forcement search your home with-out a warrant, Brady had no need to 
give up his personal property with-
out obligation.
That’s fair, despite the fact that 
he was given the option to allow his lawyer to ﬁ  lter only pertinent text messages to the investigators.
But when you burn your house 
down the day after law enforcement asks to come inside, even the most 
trusting person in the world is going 
to have serious doubts about your credibility.
Even after all of that had taken 
place, though, the league was re-portedly still willing to reach a set-tlement and lessen his suspension as long as Brady admitted guilt. But the quarterback’s camp was only will-
ing to accept a ﬁ  ne — not a suspen-
sion — for failing to comply with the investigation, not for breaking any rules related to ball inﬂ  ation.
That obviously backﬁ  red when 
the suspension was upheld Monday, a ruling Brady essentially forced the league to make. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell 
didn’t want to suspend Brady. He would have preferred the entire situ-
ation to go away quietly without one 
of the faces of the league missing a quarter of the season, including the opening Thursday night game to kickoff the year.
However, once Brady agitated the 
circumstances into the biggest story of the offseason, Goodell couldn’t af-ford to play favorites.
Now, the two are headed for a 
battle in court because of Brady’s refusal to admit guilt or defeat. And that’s the problem.
The same tenacity that has led 
him to four Super Bowl victories has turned what would have been a minor blemish on his resume into a sizeable dent.
Make no mistake — the resume 
is still one of the best the sport has ever seen, regardless of the outcome in court.
But Brady’s image is no longer as 
perfect as it used to be, and he’s the one responsible for it.COLUMN,  from pg  17Brady admitted he ordered an assistant to destroy his cell phone
AP Photo
T om Brady has a ball tossed to him during warmups before the AFC Championship game against 
the Indianapolis Colts in Foxborough, Massachusetts on Jan. 18. 
THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
position to ﬁ  eld while making 
jaw-dropping plays look rou-tine. Schwarz had three mis-cues behind the plate despite only being in the ﬁ  eld half the 
time.
At the plate, Tobias led the 
Gators with a .355 batting aver-
age and set career highs in al-most every statistical category on offense.
And Tobias only got hotter 
as the season progressed.
He ended the year reaching 
base in 31 of the ﬁ  nal 32 games, a mark unmatched by anyone else on the team (Schwarz in-cluded).
Tobias did all of this while 
batting as a switch hitter — changing his batting stance depending on the pitcher — for the ﬁ  rst time in his career.
That’s consistency. That’s 
a player deserving of the Best Male Athlete award.
And that’s how you clean up 
the competition.
Torres: Last one, best 
one
Entering this year Marquis 
Dendy was one of the most decorated athletes in Florida Gator history. 
He had ﬁ  ve national titles 
in his ﬁ  rst three seasons, and this year at the NCAA Outdoor Track and Field Championships  he would add two more  to fur-
ther cement himself as one of 
the best jumpers in program history. 
On the second day of the 
championships, Dendy would repeat as the long jump cham-pion after leaping 27 feet, 8 inches. That jump would set an all-conditions personal record 
for the Middletown, Delaware, 
native and it was the No. 2 mark in the world. 
But the last jump of his ca-
reer was his best one. 
In his ﬁ  nal event as a Gator 
— the triple jump — Dendy would soar 17.71 meters (58.25 feet) to win the triple jump ti-
tle. With that jump, he set the 
third-best all-conditions mark in collegiate history and a new record for an NCAA meet. 
For his efforts during the 
year, he was crowned as the indoor and outdoor USTFCCCA National Field Athlete of the Year. 
He’s also a ﬁ  nalist for The 
Bowerman Trophy, which is collegiate track and ﬁ  eld’s high-est individual honor. He’s the third Gator ever to be a ﬁ  nal-ist for the award and he has the chance to become the ﬁ  rst in program history to win it. 
Which male athlete at UF 
was the best? Vote online at alli-gator.org/sports. All results will be revealed in our New Student Edition on Aug. 17. AWARDS,  from pg 17Dendy won NCAA Outdoor, Indoor triple and long jumpsTHE FORMER SEC STAR WAS 
DIAGNOSED IN DECEMBER.
The Associated Press
Chiefs safety Eric Berry is returning to 
the practice ﬁ  eld, less than eight months 
after a stunning cancer diagnosis threat-
ened to derail his Pro Bowl career.
Berry was cleared by the Kansas City 
medical staff and his own doctors after a battery of tests Tuesday. 
He joined quarterbacks, 
rookies and select in-
jured players Wednesday morning for the ﬁ  rst prac-tice of training camp on 
the campus of Missouri 
Western State University.
Berry was diagnosed 
with Hodgkin’s disease last December, 
shortly after complaining of pain in his chest following a game against Oakland. 
He was treated at Emory University 
in Atlanta almost immediately, and went through the ﬁ  nal round of treatment in June.
“He’s kept himself in good shape, be-
lieve it or not,” Chiefs coach Andy Reid said earlier Tuesday, before Berry was cleared to return. “He’s really done a good job there.”
Hodgkin’s disease, also called Hodg-kin’s lymphoma, is a cancer of the immune system that makes up about 8 percent of all 
diagnosed lymphomas. 
According to the National Cancer Insti-
tute, more than 9,000 people will be diag-
nosed with it in the United States this year.
The survival rate in 1960 was about 40 
percent, but advancements in medicine combined with earlier detections have in-creased the survival rate to more than 80 percent.Chiefs' Berry returns to NFL following lymphoma battle
AP Photo
Florida's Marquis Dendy leaps on his way to winning the triple jump during the NCAA track and ﬁ  eld 
championships in Eugene, Oregon, on June 12. 
Berry
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015
