VOLUME 109 ISSUE 79 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF engineering brothers open Greek-
American restaurant
It’s in Roberts’ Stadium Club in Midtown, pg. 8. Vinyl records back on the turntable in 2014
Last year saw a 52 percent jump in sales, pg 3.  
New bubble tea shop opens on 34th Street
Competition with Lollicup intensiﬁ  es, pg 5. Bridget Sloan 
underwent an MRI 
to ﬁ  nd out the sever-
ity of her foot injury 
suffered on Sunday. 
Read the story on 
Page 13.
72/57
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alliator.org
The competition for the District 1 city commissioner seat is 
heating up with a Santa Fe College student throwing his hat in 
the ring. 
Economics sophomore Lucas Jewell, 23, said he hopes to 
charm the residents of Gainesville with his winning smile, ﬁ  rm handshake and relaxed views on the legalization of all drugs. 
He ofﬁ  cially registered July 29. When he was 18, Lucas Jewell said he enlisted in the Navy 
as an air trafﬁ  c controller and served until 2013 when he was honorably discharged. After he “learned some things” and 
“saw some things” during his time in the military, Jewell said 
he decided he didn’t want to be a part of the U.S. Military.
Jewell’s next stop was producing a Libertarian talk show 
with his friend called “Adam vs. The Man.”  
His experience ended when the star of the show — noted 
pro-gun activist Adam Kokesh — was arrested. In July 2013, 
a SWAT team raided Kokesh’s home and charged him with  possession of psychedelic mushrooms and a gun, according to 
the Washington Post. 
Shortly after, when his step-father died in a car accident, 
Jewell moved down to Gainesville where he began studying economics at Santa Fe. 
Jewell considers himself a philosophical Libertarian and 
believes strongly in stopping arrests for possession of small amounts of marijuana. A self-proclaimed marijuana smoker since his late teens, Jewell says he is a strong advocate for the 
drug and would push for police to issue tickets instead.
“You go take them, lock them in a cage, they miss work … 
they get ﬁ  red from their job. Now their wife is upset because Santa Fe College student runs for City Commission
 IT RAISES MONEY VIA HOPSCOTCH TOURNAMENTS.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
David Nassau found a Florida State University student ally in 
an unexpected place: Twitter.
Last year, the 20-year-old UF business and marketing junior 
used the Twitter hashtag #HIMYMcharity to publicize his non-
proﬁ  t organization Hopping 4 a Cure, hoping to catch the attention of “How I Met Your Mother” executives. Instead, he reconnected with an old friend from high school who attends FSU.
Now that friend, Alexis Gayda, a 19-year-old FSU information 
technology and communications junior, is helping him expand his 4-year-old charity to the Seminoles.
Nassau started Hopping 4 a Cure, a hopscotch tournament ben-
eﬁ  tting people with multiple sclerosis, as a junior in high school. It originally began as a joke, he said.
He and his friends dressed up in suits for International Suit Day, 
a ﬁ  ctional day from his favorite show, “How I Met Your Mother.” He told other students he and his friends were on the varsity team for hopscotch, and everyone believed him.
His mother suggested turning the prank into a worthy cause. 
Nassau came up with the idea to organize hopscotch games to raise money and awareness for people with multiple sclerosis in honor of his father.
“My dad was diagnosed with M.S. on Oct. 13, 2010, and I want-
ed to do something to help,” he said.
On Feb. 7, Hopping 4 a Cure will be inaugurated at FSU under 
Gayda’s leadership.  
Since the program began, Nassau has raised more than $35,000. 
All the proceeds have gone toward scholarships, caregiver support and multiple sclerosis medical research.UF fundraiser hops 
to FSU, beneﬁ  ts those with M.S.  
Aaron Albright / Alligator 
Just Dance
Florida Cicerones break out into a ﬂ  ash mob Monday afternoon, dancing in sync to a mashup of pop 
songs. Despite the rain, Turlington Plaza continues to shine.
LOCAL
CYANNE DUNN AND   EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writers cdunn@alligator.org
ecardinali@alligator.org 
While Oregon and Ohio State 
prepared to battle on the ﬁ  eld, lo-
cal businesses braced for the rush 
of customers who came for the 
kickoff of the National Champi-onship game. 
Hoss Rice, service manager at 
Gator’s Dockside, said the sports bar prepared for the crowds by stocking extra of just about ev-erything.
“We put extra staff on, brought 
people in early, bought a lot more 
food,” said Rice, who has worked 
at Dockside for 10 years. 
Despite the prep, Rice said 
business wasn’t any busier than 
it would be for a regular football 
game. 
“We’ve been here for 12 years,” he said. “It’s nothing new. If the Gators were in it, then we’d be a lot busier.” 
Andrea Montoya, a 21-year-
old UF zoology senior, and Ro-
drigo Sarmento, a 21-year-old UF 
microbiology senior, showed up around 7:45 p.m. when the wait for a table was an hour and a half 
to two hours, Rice estimated. 
Luckily for Montoya and Sar-Restaurants prep for championshipSEE PROFILE, PAGE 4
SEE HOP, PAGE 4
SEE CHAMPIONSHIP, PAGE 4Plan includes lighter marijuana penaltiesNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 79 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
68/43SUNNY
63/39RAIN
63/43CLOUDY
63/48RAIN
72/57
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. ball by Jan. 21. Other sports offered this semester include swimming, sand volleyball, tennis, dodgeball, a 2-per-son golf scramble and inner-tube water polo. Register on IMLeagues. Visit recsports.ufl.edu for the full schedule and more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
A caption of a photo from 
Monday’s paper featuring a 
sign outside Best Jewelry and 
Loan said the owner of the store commented on a recent gun deaths study mentioned 
in the story titled “2015: Guns 
could kill more than cars.” 
However, the owner of a different pawn shop, Main Street Jewelry and Loans, 
commented on the study.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free RecSports Fitness Event
Interested in exploring state-
of-the-art fitness equipment such as TRX®, Power Plate® and Kinesis® and formats such as Mat Pilates, Inversion Yoga and Yin Yoga? UF RecSports is holding a free open house event promoting small group train-ing. Register on RSConnect for a free 30-minute demo on Tuesday or Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. More information is available on recsports.ufl.edu.
Find out if Peace Corps is for you
A Peace Corps applica-tion workshop will be held Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. in the International Center, Room 173, located in the Hub. Students will hear a brief overview of Peace Corps, learn how to be more competitive for Peace Corps service and walk through the new-and-improved online application. The application deadline for Peace Corps pro-grams departing this summer is Thursday. Peace Corps has thousands of volunteer oppor-tunities for U.S. citizens aged 18 and older who are interested in public service abroad. The Peace Corps office is located at the UF International Center in the Hub in Suite 170. Call 352-294-2267 or email peacecorps@ufic.ufl.edu.
Intramural Sports in Spring 2015
Intramural sports kick off in Spring 2015 with outdoor soc-cer followed by 4-on-4 flag football and 5-on-5 basketball. Register for outdoor soccer by Wednesday and register for both flag football and basket-In an information box accom-
panying a story outlining a 
localized reaction to President 
Barack Obama’s plan to make 
the first two years of commu-nity college free,  the data for 
Santa Fe College and Valencia 
College showed the cost per 
credit hour for upper divi-
sion classes — $125.33 and $112.19, respectively. The data 
should’ve reflected the cost per 
credit hour for lower division 
classes — $105.77 and $103.06, 
respectively.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva    photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle @alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alexandra Fernandez    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer ghall@alligator.org
If anyone thought vinyl re-
cords were a thing of the past, 2014 
proved otherwise.
According to financial reports 
from Nielsen and Soundscan, vinyl record sales in the U.S. were at an all-time high since the companies 
began tracking sales of vinyl re-
cords in 1993.
In total, the industry saw overall 
sales of 9.2 million vinyl records in 2014 in the U.S., an increase of 52 
percent from 2013.
With music distribution trend-
ing away from the sales of physical 
records, digital-record sales have 
dominated the music market in re-
cent years.
A popular local record store’s 
sales reflected the national vinyl trend.
Andrew Schaer, owner of Hear 
Again Music & Movies since 2006, said he has seen an increase in vi-nyl record sales from previous 
years at his store. 
After moving from the West 
University Avenue location, Hear 
Again has seen more consistent 
business at its new location, 201 SE 
First St.
“It’s the sound,” Schaer said, 
referring to why customers prefer vinyl records. “You can’t beat the sound quality.” 
He added, “When you go to 
someone’s house and hear an al-bum you know on LP, it’s a mind-opening experience.”
Schaer believes that digital dis-
tribution has only helped the sales of vinyl records. 
“You’re not going to listen to a 
record in the car or on a jog,” Schaer said. “When they’re sitting in their living rooms they’re going to go for 
the record because the sound qual-
ity is just going to be better.”
Schaer’s assertion that vinyl 
records offer superior sound isn’t just an opinion — there’s science 
behind it.
James Paul Sain, a UF professor 
of composition, wrote in an email 
that there are multiple reasons a 
person would want to buy or col-
lect vinyl records in the digital age. 
“Technically, the vinyl record-
ing is a closer analog to the actual waveform produced by the music 
in that the wave is directly rep-
resented by the groove in the re-cord,” Sain said. 
In line with the dominance of 
digital media, streaming services and digital downloads remain the two most popular options custom-ers use to listen to music.
UF fine arts student Patrick 
Smith said he once received a vinyl record as a gift, but digital services remain his first choice when listen-ing to music.
“I actually just got a Spotify 
account,” said Smith, 24. “I can 
appreciate vinyl. I think the only 
reason I haven’t gotten into vinyl is because it’s so expensive.”
Despite being outdated technol-
ogy, it appears vinyl records are here to stay as long as labels contin-ue to adapt to the current trends in music such as Spotify and iTunes.
“While it is impossible to pre-
dict (the future of vinyl records 
sales),” Sain wrote, “consumption 
of vinyl is likely to continue to rise if past trends are followed.”TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
TRENDSVinyl records back on the turntable in 2014, data shows
Alligator File Photo
Andrew Schaer, owner of Hear Again Music and Movies, returns from helping a customer. Hear Again 
Music and Movies is one of few surviving record stores in Gainesville, along with Arrow’s Aim Records.
9.2 million records sold
“It’s the sound. You can’t 
beat the sound quality ... 
When you go to someone’s 
house and hear an album 
you know on LP, it’s a mind-
opening experience.”
Andrew Schaer
owner, Hear Again Music & Movies
‘97 ‘98 ‘99 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13$250m
$200m
$150m
$100m
$50m
Data via Statista / Alligator StaffWorldwide vinyl salesmento, they had friends inside who had 
already snagged a table. 
“We send them out first,” Sarmento 
said, “then we come out after they deal with the wait.”
Montoya said they decided to watch 
the game at Dockside after their friends 
recommended it for the projectors, mul-
tiple TVs and good food.
Meanwhile, at Salty Dog Saloon, the 
atmosphere was a little calmer. 
Ben Raulerson, who has worked at 
the Midtown watering hole for eight years, said he wasn’t expecting much of a crowd. 
“We’re not really a sports bar, per se,” 
Raulerson said. “Games like this — you get some of a crowd but not that great 
of one.”
Like Rice, Raulerson said because the 
Gators weren’t playing, it was a pretty 
normal night for a football game.
“We just have a couple of extra staff,” 
he said. “That’s really the only differ-ence.” 
Raulerson said the bar usually needs 
a couple extra hands at the beginning 
of the semester anyway, when students 
have more free time. 
Salty Dog didn’t run any drink spe-
cials in honor of the game.
Raulerson added that he didn’t expect 
any one menu item to sell out more than usual. 
Frank Eastwood, a manager at Bally-
hoo Grill, said they were naturally pre-
pared because of the restaurant’s large size, though they did need to stock a little extra bar food. 
“Chicken wings, nachos — that sort of 
thing,” said Eastwood. 
Eastwood said he did see an increase 
in business for the night. 
“Yeah, usually it slows down about 
8:30 or 9 around here,” Eastwood said. 
“But we got a nice little push in.”
Ballyhoo was around two-thirds full 
for the start of the game, which East-wood estimated to be about 200 people.
At Mother’s Pub and Grill, around 150 
people stood and perched on barstools as wait staff wove with alternating empty 
and full pitchers of beer when the game 
was tied 7 to 7. 
Anthony Kurtz, head of security for 
Mother’s, said to prepare for the game 
crowd, staff stocked the cooler full of 
beer and scheduled the most experienced employees.    
Mother’s had its regular gamenight 
specials of $7 buckets of beer, 40 cent 
wings and 50 cent tacos. 
Kurtz said the crowd was normal for 
a gamenight, and a bunch of regulars 
milled around in the restaurant.
One regular, Mike Bell, is tied to the 
sports bar in ways that surmount his seven years of regularly watching games there. 
He helped lay the flooring inside and 
build the outdoor patio, where he now stood under the glow of the outdoor TVs with his American bulldog, Jigsaw.
“I come here for cheaper prices and a 
friendly atmosphere,” he said. “Definite-ly the friendly atmosphere.”they got arrested, they can’t feed their 
family,” he said. “There’s bigger prob-
lems with just locking someone in a cage 
— you affect the whole economy. You af-
fect the whole society.”
He hopes to work with local law en-
forcement to focus more on “crimes with 
actual victims,” he said.
Wallace Mazon, a 20-year-old Santa 
Fe philosophy sophomore and friend of Jewell, said what he thinks stands out about Jewell is his military service and 
his passion.
With such a progressive platform, Ma-
zon said he believes Jewell’s young age is likely to give him a strong advantage in 
the upcoming election, as compared to a middle-aged man who’s “only going to 
talk to other middle-age people.”
But Cody Patton, the Santa Fe Student 
Government director of external affairs, said he thinks Jewell’s progressive views 
could go against him in a community with a large elderly population.
If he wants to win the upcoming elec-
tions, Patton said Jewell will need to “pol-ish his speech” and “become more well-
spoken.”
“If he can polish his appearance to 
where it is more of a politician and more of a public eye attire, then he would have 
a great chance” at being elected, he said. 
Jewell is running against Christopher 
Weaver, Charles Edward Goston, Scher-win Henry and incumbent Yvonne Hin-son-Rawls.4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
The organization will award a $1,500 scholarship next semester
“It’s really shaped who I’ve be-
come,” he said.
Next semester, the organization 
will award a $1,500 scholarship to a 
UF student with M.S. or one with a 
parent or sibling with M.S., he said.  
This will be Hop 4 a Cure’s first 
scholarship, and Nassau said he 
hopes to offer it annually. After be-ginning this partnership with FSU, 
Nassau said he wants to expand it to 
other colleges. But first, he has to see 
how successful it is at FSU. 
Gayda said she is already in the 
process of making Hopping 4 a Cure 
a student organization at FSU and 
expects it to be running within sev-
eral weeks. 
She plans to offer internships 
within the charity for FSU public re-
lations students as well as students 
interested in event planning in Fall 
2015.  She said she’s excited to 
bring the charity to Tallahassee. 
“It’s great, not only for the fact 
of the cause,” she said, “but it’s 
raising awareness for something 
that not a lot of people know that 
much about.”HOP , from page 1
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A crowded bar watches the National Championship game between University of Or -
egon and Ohio State University in Mother’s Pub and Grill on West University Avenue 
on Monday night.
PROFILE , from page 1He has a 
military 
backgroundCourtesy to the Alligator
Bunduki “Duke” Ramadan, a 22-year-old UF economics senior, leaps in the air on one of the Broward 
Outdoor Recreation Complex basketball courts during a Hopping 4 a Cure event.
Some restaurants prepared but didn’t see rush
CHAMPIONSHIP ,   
from page 1Multiple sclerosis is caused 
by the body’s immune system attacking myelin, the protective coating around nerve fibers in the 
central nervous system and can 
create physical, social, vocational and psychological complications.
Symptoms range from mild to 
severe. 
Common:
Fatigue, difficulty walking, 
numbness, spasticity, weakness, 
vision problems, dizziness, blad -
der problems, bowel problems 
and depression
Less Common:
Speech problems, swallow -
ing problems, tremor, seizures, 
breathing problems, itching, headache and hearing loss
Secondary symptoms:
Repeated urinary tract infec -
tions, loss of muscle tone, weak -
ness, poor postural alignment, decreased bone density and shal-
low, inefficient breathing
Data attributed to National 
Multiple Sclerosis Society
“We’ve been here for 12 years 
... It’s nothing new. If the Gators 
were in it then we’d be a lot 
busier.”
Hoss Rice
service manager, Gator’s DocksideTUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Staying dry
ABOVE: Layne Marshall, a 19-year-old UF natural resource conservation sophomore, walks out of 
Weimer Hall into the rain with her umbrella Monday afternoon. Marshall said she was on her way to her silviculture class.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
A new tea spot recently opened in Gainesville, and business 
is brewing.
A mixture between a modern lounge and a classic tea room, 
Kung Fu Tea caters to avid bubble tea drinkers. The tea room 
opened Dec. 20 at 3102 SW 34th St., offering a lengthy list of black- and green-based teas, coffee and slushies. 
A medium-sized iced tea at Kung Fu is $4, and additional top-
pings like boba and red beans are an extra 50 cents.  
Owner Amy Lin said she chose to open Florida’s second Kung 
Fu Tea location in Gainesville for its student population. The oth-er location is in Tampa. Lin said she set the shop’s hours as noon to midnight because she heard UF was “kind of a party school.” 
Kung Fu Tea opened on the same block as Lollicup, another 
tearoom known for its bubble teas and varied topping flavors. Lollicup also offers Vietnamese-inspired desserts, cake and a col-orful assortment of macaroons.
While both shops are known for their tea, Lollicup is a bit 
smaller and sports a more coffee-shop feel with books and board 
games for entertainment.
Andrea Tham, a regular at Lollicup, said the Kung Fu Tea 
buy-one-get-one deals that lasted from Jan. 1 through 5 are what 
drew her in. Although she liked its modern setup, she said she 
will probably stick to Lollicup. 
“The setup is very homey,” the 21-year-old UF sociology se-
nior said. “Kung Fu Tea is definitely more modern, but they don’t 
have board games.” 
Melanie Galvis, on the other hand, has been converted. The 
19-year-old saw friends posting about the new spot‘s buy-one-get-one deals and decided to try it out. 
“The ambiance is a lot more relaxing,” the UF political science 
sophomore said. “It’s very feng shui.”New bubble tea shop 
opens, competition brews with LollicupBUSINESS
“The ambiance is a lot more relaxing. It’s very 
feng shui.”
Melanie Galvis
UF political science sophomore
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a man Sunday 
who officers say had seven bags of metham-
phetamines and falsely identified himself to police. 
Theophilus Lynum, 23, was stopped by of-
ficers at 3200 SW 26th Way for running a stop sign at about 6:30 p.m., according to a report. When police asked him for identification, Ly-num said he was Carl Eugene Davis. Lynum in-sisted he was Davis, but forearm tattoos read-ing “Theo” and “Lynum” suggested otherwise. 
When searched, police found the seven bags of meth in Lynum’s pants, a report said. Offi-cers discovered that Lynum’s driver’s license had been suspended seven times and revoked. Lynum is also wanted for driving with a re-voked license and for fraud.
Kendarruis Lamar, an 18-year-old Micano-
py man who was also in the car, was arrested for associating with Lynum and violating his probation, a report said. 
Lynum was arrested on charges of drug pos-
session with intent to sell within a thousand feet of a park, knowingly driving with a revoked license and falsely identifying himself to police as well as probation violation. As of press time, he was being held in lieu of a $19,000 bond. Police arrest man, say found with 
meth, falsely identified himselfBELOW: Nicole Walton, a 20-year-old UF biology sophomore, studies a few feet away from the rain in 
Weimer Hall on Monday afternoon. Walton said she usually studies in Weimer Hall because it’s the halfway point between two classes.STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ST. PETERSBURG — A man 
seen throwing his 5-year-old daughter off a bridge refused to an-swer questions Monday as a judge appointed him a public defender.
John Jonchuck seemed to reject a 
court-appointed attorney last week when he said he wanted to leave his fate “in the hands of God.”
Police say 5-year-old Phoebe 
Jonchuck was likely alive when her father sped past a police officer ear-ly Thursday morning, then pulled over to the side of the bridge. The officer could only watch from a dis-tance as John Jonchuck pulled the girl from the back seat and dropped her to her death in the waters of Florida’s Tampa Bay.
Jonchuck’s own divorce law-yer had warned authorities of his mental state about 12 hours ear-lier, calling the local sheriff’s office for help. Florida’s child protection hotline also was called with a plea for intervention. Deputies met with the father and daughter at a church but found no reason to take the girl away. Child protective investiga-tors decided not to investigate.
A critical incident response team 
will examine the agency’s prior in-teractions with the Jonchuck fam-ily, Department Secretary Mike Carroll said.
In response to Phoebe’s killing, 
Carroll changed the agency’s ho-tline protocol: From now on, if a caregiver seems to be experiencing a psychotic episode, a child protec-tive investigator will be required to visit within four hours. Father who dropped 
child off bridge in court Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
The State of the 
Union and 
security breaches
It’s the week leading up to President Barack Obama’s next-to-
last State of the Union Address, so he’ll be revealing his poli-cies for the coming year. It also means there will be a lot of 
rather sassy reactions to his stated plans, so get ready for a week full of some salty political news. See, for example, the president’s 
announcement this weekend of the plan to make community 
college tuition free, and the gleeful takedowns that followed.
On Monday, we got to hear about a new segment of Obama’s 
plan for 2015: moving cybersecurity up to the front of his admin-istration’s agenda. He visited the Federal Trade Commission to discuss plans to protect the privacy of consumers and students, as well as to prevent identity theft. Today he’ll be going to the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Cen-ter, a branch of the Department of Homeland Security. The 
president made his most striking proposal in a speech where he 
suggested legislation that would require companies to inform consumers of data hacks within 30 days of a breach.
The emergence of an executive plan to promote cybersecurity 
comes at an awkward intersection, where we’re putting more and more of our most sensitive information on the Internet at a time when security is lacking. Often, though, our personal information is vulnerable to hackers even if we don’t make it available ourselves. Lapses in security — such as last year’s Sony 
hacks and the data breach at Target, which compromised 40 mil-
lion credit and debit card numbers — didn’t only jeopardize the individual consumers involved. They had a profoundly nega-tive impact on major corporations and the economy at large. Each underscores the need for greater emphasis on cybersecu-rity on a grand scale.
In a peculiarly embarrassing and nearly unbelievable turn of 
events, the Twitter account of the U.S. Central Command was hacked and taken over by what appeared to be Islamic State 
sympathizers.
U.S. Central Command is located at the MacDill Air Force 
Base in Tampa and oversees operations in the Middle East and 
Central Asia — including Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. It’s also in charge of the ongoing operations against the Islamic State group, Operation Inherent Resolve.
The cyberattack appears to have been carried out by people 
claiming allegiance to the Islamic State group, but there hasn’t been any proof of involvement on the part of the caliphate. The 
hackers didn’t do much — they changed the cover photo and 
posted a few documents, all of which could easily be found pub-licly on government websites. The hack was an embarrassing nuisance but didn’t pose any actual threats. Besides, it’s not like social media sites have the strictest protocols — even if that’s an unsettling reality for most of us.
With that in mind, take steps to make sure your ducks are in 
a row, security-wise. It’s good to be cautious, especially when so much is available. If, like me, you use the same password for 
every account, consider changing a few of them. That should 
give you more security and peace of mind.
43 TOTAL VOTES23% YES
77% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Did you watch the 
Golden Globes?Today’s question: Have you kept your New Year 
resolution(s)?By now, you’ve probably heard of the devastating terror attacks that shocked and horriﬁ  ed the nation of France. The terror began last Wednesday when 
masked gunmen murdered 12 people at the Paris ofﬁ  ce of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, a publication known for deliberately mocking various religions and politicians. Two days later, the violence continued as the attackers killed a French policewoman then held 16 hostages in a kosher supermarket, killing four.
In the midst of the aftermath, social media exploded 
with an outpour of support for the people of France. Using the hashtag #JeSuisCharlie — “I am Charlie” — Twitter users stood up for freedom of speech and expressed soli-darity with the victims. Many journalists and news pub-lications quickly condemned the attacks and grieved the magazine’s murdered staff members, stating that no one should have to die for expressing an opinion.
But even as 3.7 million people took to the streets of 
Paris this Sunday to stand against terrorism and to dem-onstrate their dedication to the freedom of speech, many social media users and journalists criticized #JeSuisChar-lie as a defense of speech that is hateful and offensive. Though these people outright condemn the murders of Charlie Hebdo’s staff members, they refuse to defend a publication that insults religions and diverse groups of people. Essentially, they believe that free speech should come with responsibility. Therefore, expressing incredibly offensive opinions is irresponsible and does not deserve our support. For that reason, the hashtag #JeNeSuisPas-Charlie — “I am not Charlie” — was born.
Before going any further, let me ﬁ  rst be clear: Charlie 
Hebdo’s cartoons are undoubtedly offensive to a variety of religions, cultures and peoples. There is no question that the magazine’s depictions of Muhammad were both insulting and provocative, and it would be laughable to defend the images as “great journalism,” satire or not.
However, it is disappointing and worrisome that so many people, journalists es-pecially, reject the notion that Charlie Hebdo’s cartoons are worth defending. This trend re-veals a troubling disregard for the purpose a freedom of speech has in a liberal and democratic society. We need people to be unafraid to express their views, no matter how disgusting, awful or insulting anybody else might ﬁ  nd them.
The free exchange of ideas is necessary for society’s 
evolution, and this means that we have to swallow our an-ger and allow all views to be tolerated — not just ones we deem appropriate. If we pick and choose which ideas are allowed to be expressed and which aren’t, then we cannot claim to live in a free society.
Public discourse can only thrive if there are oppos-
ing views. Without people disagreeing openly with each other, the exchange of ideas is stiﬂ  ed. Silence will replace the important conversations that need to happen. That’s why it is so crucial to show support for Charlie Hebdo, even if you disagree with the images it publishes. We need to demonstrate that all ideas will be tolerated, even the ones we ﬁ  nd may personally ﬁ  nd intolerable. As Voltaire famously said, “I do not agree with what you have to say, but I’ll defend to the death your right to say it.”
Some people reading this column might completely 
disagree with my opinion. If that’s the case, there are many outlets to express your beliefs. You can write a letter to the editor, a guest column, a post on Facebook or Twitter or even comment on this article online. In providing your own ideas, you will be fueling more conversation about an important topic — and that’s the beauty of free speech.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her 
columns appear on Tuesdays.  
Even offensive speech must be defendedTUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Keep Amendment 1 focused on conservation
Many of us may have been disappointed by the results of last fall’s gubernatorial election, 
but few could complain about the passage of Amendment 1 by an overwhelming 74 percent 
of voters. 
In case you didn’t know, the amendment funnels a third of revenue from the document tax 
— which already existed before the amendment’s passage — into much-needed funding for conservation, land acquisition and management. While this presents a clear public mandate for conservation, democracy doesn’t end at the voting booth. 
Certain bits of language within the bill could be used to severely reduce its effectiveness in 
protecting Florida’s natural areas. The amendment provides funds for acquisition and man-agement of conservation easements in areas important to state’s ecology and water security. However, it also allocates funds for recreational parks and “urban open spaces.” This line concerns me because it opens up the potential for spending money originally meant for con-
servation on lands and projects that may not help the state’s wildlife at all. Playgrounds and 
public green spaces are great, but when Floridians came out and voted in favor of Amend-ment 1 last fall, the creation of new parks and open spaces was not their intention. 
I believe projects like that should be funded separately. Legislators are now accepting 
public comments on how the money should be spent, and I urge all who are interested in the health and beauty of our state’s natural areas to write to their representatives and emphasize that our money should be spent on conservation.
This is an important issue for the future of our state and one that gives UF students the 
opportunity to make a real difference.
Rhett Barker is a UF wildlife ecology and conservation junior.Letters to the Editor
The nature-walk mantra “take nothing but pictures, leave nothing but foot-prints” has not only ecological impli-
cations but political and legal ones as well.
The Venus ﬂ  ytrap is charismatic, recog-
nizable to many at a young age and highly sought-after as a houseplant. Because they’re 
so popular — yet very rare — Venus ﬂ  ytraps 
are often taken from the wild, making them one of the most poached plants in North America.
On Jan. 3, a wildlife ofﬁ  cer arrested four 
men in possession of 970 Venus ﬂ  ytraps at 
Holly Shelter Game Land in eastern North 
Carolina. These men will be the ﬁ  rst charged with poaching Venus ﬂ  ytraps under a new state law that went into effect Dec. 1, which makes it a felony to remove Venus ﬂ  ytraps or 
any part of one from the wild. 
This law elevated Venus ﬂ  ytrap poaching 
from a misdemeanor to a class H felony. The 
severity of the penalty was increased from a 
maximum ﬁ  ne of $50 to a sentence of up to 25 
months in prison, on top of ﬁ  nes. Other class H felonies include a hit-and-run resulting in injury, escape from a state prison and pos-session of stolen goods.
Venus ﬂ  ytraps and ginseng — a plant 
that is frequently poached and may sell for $200 per pound — are the only wild plants in North Carolina protected by the state un-
der penalty of felony. The law protecting Ve-
nus ﬂ  ytraps shows we’re beginning to place a greater importance on nonhuman life and rethink our coexistence with nature, but it re-mains a small step in that direction. 
Venus ﬂ  ytraps aren’t listed by either the 
state of North Carolina or the federal gov-ernment as endangered or threatened, and thus they are not protected by the famous 
federal Endangered Species Act of 1973. 
This landmark piece of legislation cur-
rently protects several endemic Florida spe-cies, including the Florida panther, logger-
head sea turtles and gray wolves, as well as hundreds of other plant and animal species nationwide. Violations of the act are pun-ished with felonies. 
Why was North Carolina’s Venus ﬂ  ytrap 
bill, meant to protect one single species, able to pass into law? Why not include it in the broader legislation? 
A felony charge for removing Venus ﬂ  y-
traps is understood to be fair and necessary because the most severe takings are by pro-fessional poachers, who remove hundreds of plants at a time to sell on the black market. The Jan. 3 event was not an isolated one, and 
it will not take long for Venus ﬂ  ytraps to dis-
appear from the wild if thefts of that mag-nitude continue. State representatives, such as the bill’s sponsor Rep. Ted Davis, R-N.C., understand this. 
These poachers are well aware of the ille-
gality of their actions, as many were charged with misdemeanors for poaching the plants before the new law went into effect. Misde-
meanors, however, were not sufﬁ  cient disin-
centives compared to the overall proﬁ  t made from the sale of the stolen plants. 
Let us consider the Venus ﬂ  ytrap. It is a 
carnivorous plant with gaping, mouth-like 
leaves that visibly close around visiting in-
sects lured by the plant’s sweet nectar. It has a small native range in southeast North Carolina and northeast South Carolina, in-
habiting boggy wetlands. Florida has native 
carnivorous plants too — pitcher plants, sun-dews and butterworts — which are found in similar habitats. Florida’s plants, however, are called passive trappers, whereas Venus 
ﬂ  ytraps are active trappers. This means that 
the Venus ﬂ  ytrap is the only plant whose movement we can observe in real time. That is, the plant seems to exhibit agency, like an 
animal. It’s easier for humans to empathize 
with something if it seems to be like us. 
Finally, the use of the word “poaching,” 
as it is deﬁ  ned by the North Carolina Wild-life Resources Commission, rhetorically 
places the importance of the Venus ﬂ  ytrap 
on the same level as that of animals.
It is easy to stir our emotions and imagi-
nations with images of scary men illegally 
killing magniﬁ  cent black rhinoceroses and 
taking their horns. The Wildlife Resources Commission and other conservationists clev-erly use this term to encourage the public’s minds to make connections between often 
overlooked plants and undeniably magniﬁ  -
cent animals, all of which deserve protection and stewardship.
I applaud North Carolina’s new law, and 
I hope to see more like it.
Rosie Pahl Donaldson has a B.S. in wildlife 
ecology and conservation from UF.Don’t pick that Venus ﬂ  ytrapGuest columnHappy New Year! I hope 
everyone had an awesome holiday season. It’s great 
to be back and great to be writing again, although 2015 somehow al-ready feels stressful. The ﬁ  rst week of classes was a blur of expensive textbooks and schedule shufﬂ  ing, 
but an event this past weekend 
helped to start my new year off with a bang: the 2015 Golden Globes.
I’ve always been a fan of the 
Hollywood award shows, and Sun-
day’s celebrity extravaganza was no exception. I’ve heard many peo-ple dismiss the Globes as a mostly 
unimportant precursor to the Os-
cars. Although this may be true, this particular Golden Globes was a knockout — in more ways than 
one. The celebrities of ﬁ  lm and tele-
vision are individuals whom we all hear about whether we want to or not. 
But the people sweeping down 
the red carpet in their stunning out-ﬁ  ts are more than well-known fac-es. They are the cultural spokespeo-ple of our time, showcasing every 
year what is at the forefront of our 
country’s social problems, political issues and artistic ventures. Their art form, though it has its faults, is a critique of what our country is 
thinking about this year, what we 
are feeling and what we are facing.
This year, the Golden Globes did 
a wonderful job embracing some of 
the progressive ideas of entertain-
ment today, and I’m not just talking about the kick-butt power couple of Tina Fey and Amy Poehler as announcers — although they were 
fantastic. Poehler/Fey 2016, every-
one.
What I’m talking about are the 
many diverse and awesome TV 
series and ﬁ  lms that were up for 
awards this year, like “Pride,” a ﬁ  lm about the alliance between an LGBTQ+ support group and a union of Welsh miners participat-
ing in a nationwide strike. That ﬁ  lm 
was nominated for Best Comedy or Musical Motion Picture. Actors from shows like “Transparent,” 
“Orange is the New Black” and 
“Jane the Virgin” were nominated for awards.
When Joanne Froggatt, who 
plays Anna from “Downton Ab-
bey,” won Best Supporting Actress 
in a Series, I was already happy be-cause I’m completely nuts for that show. Froggatt’s acceptance speech 
gave a voice to the survivors of 
rape and sexual assault who had written to her in response to her performance as a survivor of sexual assault. Such an acknowledgement 
of these voices is a step in the right 
direction for cinema.
But this acknowledgement 
didn’t end with Froggatt’s speech. The TV show “Transpar-ent” broke new ground by win-
ning the Best TV Series, Musical, or 
Comedy award. It is the ﬁ  rst show to win with an openly transgender woman as the main character. Jill 
Soloway, the show’s creator, dedi-
cated the award to Leelah Alcorn, a teenage transgender girl whose suicide on Dec. 28 drew national attention. Leelah was one of many 
transgender people who suffered 
abuse from her family and com-munity, an awful and sobering re-minder for America of the many 
transgender people who lose their 
lives as a result of this discrimina-tion and abuse. In her suicide note, Leelah asked people to talk more about the hardships trans people 
face. Hopefully Soloway’s dedica-
tion at the Golden Globes is only the beginning of this dialogue.
Those weren’t the only mov-
ing moments of the 2015 Golden Globes. John Legend’s acceptance speech for “Glory,” which won Best Song from the movie “Selma,” was deeply pertinent to the civil rights 
issues that are, appallingly, still 
problems in the U.S. 
Maggie Gyllenhaal completely 
took down the patriarchy with 
an epic acceptance speech for her 
award of Best Actress for a TV Se-ries in “The Honorable Woman.” She spoke out about the new abun-dance of roles for “actual women” 
in television and ﬁ  lm, instead of 
sexualized or minimized stereo-types.
There were things that weren’t 
so wonderful about the Golden Globes, too, like the way Jeremy Renner was oh-so-casually sexist and how “The Lego Movie” didn’t win Best Animated Picture — but 
we still have the Oscars for that. 
Don’t despair.
The Golden Globes blew me 
away with its openness, recogni-
tion and positivity toward current 
social issues.
Our entertainment industry 
is ﬁ  nally moving away from its old, crude caricatures of minor-
ity groups. Instead, television se-
ries and ﬁ  lms are recognizing and rewarding the talent of so many amazing movements and individu-
als. To me, this is great news. It’s 
a sign that 2015 is going to be an awesome year for social justice and entertainment alike.
Sally Greider is an English and 
public relations sophomore.Social progress shown 
through Golden GlobesColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Rosie Pahl Donaldson
Speaking OutJIMMY MCLAUGHLIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Over Winter Break, two UF stu-
dents and their family members 
opened a new restaurant in Mid-town. 
Redi Kola, a UF civil engineer-
ing senior, and his cousin Sairo Kola, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore, opened the Greco-American restaurant The Spot on Dec. 27. 
“I thought this would be a great 
addition to the Midtown area be-cause we are one of the only places around that truly makes their food fresh from scratch,” said Redi Kola, 24. 
With construction finished 
on Roberts’ Stadium Club, they couldn’t resist the opportunity to open a restaurant so close to cam-pus. 
“I’ve lived in Gainesville for almost four years, and this was the first expansion in Midtown in quite a while,” he said. 
The inspiration came from their 
family-owned diner in St. Augus-tine called Oasis. The diner was sold six months ago, and they used the money to open The Spot.
Redi Kola said The Spot’s loca-
tion and menu is smaller but fea-tures many of the same items he believes will be popular. Prices range from a $5 Caesar salad to an $8.95 gyro platter. 
One facet of the menu, the tur-
key, is baked in the Kola family’s own fresh seasoning. They also purchase meats and other ingre-dients from local farmers markets. 
Sairo Kola said the name was 
a friend’s suggestion that eventu-ally stuck. It reflects his belief of making the new restaurant into the preferred food destination for Midtown customers. As for being students and running a business, “The biggest challenge is finding time,” Sairo Kola said.     
Donovan Garrett, a 19-year-old 
UF marketing sophomore, said he already considers himself a regu-lar at The Spot. His favorite menu item is the “Triple Decker,” a spe-cialty sandwich stuffed with ham, turkey, bacon, lettuce, tomato, mayo and provolone and Ameri-can cheeses.
Garrett lives in Midtown. While 
he loves the convenience of the area, like many students, he finds himself on a limited budget. 
“I tried it after I got back from 
break off a friend’s recommen-dation,” Garrett said. “The Spot serves very sensible portions of good food for an economic price.” 
8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
Jimmy McLaughlin / Alligator
Sairo Kola works in The Spot, the restaurant he opened over Winter Break with his cousin, Redi. The res-taurant, on the ground floor of the Roberts’ Stadium Club in Midtown, serves Greco-American cuisine.
LOCALUF engineering brothers open Greek-American restaurant    
Susel Ramos / Alligator 
We thank you for your service
Frank Towers, a 97-year-old veteran of World War II, speaks Monday night at an honoring cer-emony at Phi Mu sorority house. Along with a presentation of colors from the Navy/Marine Color Guard, the ceremony also featured special remarks from veteran organization leaders. 
Roberts’ Stadium Club is located at 
1802 W. University Avenue.
What else to do there:
Buy a pastel dress at Henri Girl.Park in the garage for $9.75 all day or $5 for nights and week -
ends, and be steps away from campus and Midtown.
Eat a grilled cheese doughnut at Cheese Daddy.Dream about owning an office or residential space on one of its 
higher floors.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. — A federal 
judge on Monday declared South Da-
kota’s same-sex marriage ban unconsti-tutional, but marriage licenses won’t be immediately issued because the ruling 
was put on hold pending a potential 
appeal.
U.S. District Judge Karen Schreier 
sided in favor of the six couples who filed the lawsuit in May in Sioux Falls. The lawsuit challenges a 1996 state law and a voter-approved 2006 constitu-tional amendment that ban gay mar-riage.
“Plaintiffs have a fundamental right 
to marry,” Schreier wrote. “South Da-kota law deprives them of that right solely because they are same-sex cou-ples and without sufficient justifica-tion.”
Attorney General Marty Jackley on 
Monday said the state will appeal the case to the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals, a conservative-leaning fed-
eral appeals court that in 2006 affirmed Nebraska’s right to ban same-sex mar-riages.
“It remains the state’s position that 
the institution of marriage should be defined by the voters of South Dakota and not the federal courts,” Jackley said.He said he’s obligated by law to 
defend both the state constitution and state statutes.
Two other states — Arkansas and 
Missouri — already have appealed similar federal district court rulings to the 8th Circuit. The U.S. Supreme Court again is considering whether to hear a same-sex marriage case, and more ap-peals court rulings — especially if they conflict — could increase the likelihood the justices will do so.
In November, the 6th Circuit Court 
of Appeals based in Cincinnati became the first appellate court to recently up-hold state bans on same-sex marriage. Plaintiffs from Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee are asking the court to reverse that decision. Four oth-er appeals courts — based in Chicago, Denver, San Francisco and Richmond, Virginia — have ruled in favor of gay 
and lesbian couples. Arguments over 
bans in three Southern states were up-held last week before a New Orleans-based appellate court.
Presently, 36 states allow same-sex 
couples to marry, nearly twice as many as just three months ago.
The South Dakota couples’ attorney, 
Josh Newville, said this represents the 
last opportunity for the state’s “elected 
officials to be on the right side of his-tory” by not appealing Schreier’s deci-sion.South Dakota same-sex 
marriage ban struck downTUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
CAMPUS
KATHERINE GUTIERREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
January at UF means gyms packed full of stu-
dents carrying out New Year’s resolutions meant to 
start the semester off on a healthy note.
Kisa Mugwanya, marketing assistant at South-
west Recreation Center, said the gym has been crowded since the new year began.
“We have been opening up an hour and a half 
earlier in order to accommodate to all students,” Mugwanya said.
Cassie Imrie, a 19-year-old UF accounting soph-
omore, said she enjoys running when the weather is warm. But rainy days, like Monday, send her in-
doors to ﬁ  nish her workout at the Student Recre-
ation Center.She said the gym was so crowded that she could 
not use some equipment, limiting her workout. She usually uses the StairMaster, but they were all oc-cupied, and it cut her hourlong workout in half.
Imrie decided to brave the weather.“I wasn’t as happy, but I just ran outside for a 
little longer to make up for it,” she said.
Mugwanya said Southwest does not want stu-
dents to be discouraged from using its facilities. 
The gym has live webcams that can be seen on their 
website to analyze gym trafﬁ  c and allow students to plan accordingly before heading out.
Imrie said she encourages those who hope to get 
healthy this year to not let the crowded gym dis-courage their progress.
“It’s not a one-time thing,” Imrie said. “You have 
to continue doing it until you’re addicted to it.”New Year’s resolutions crowd gyms THEY THINK TASTING 
ROOMS AREN’T LEGAL.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Flori-
da liquor stores and beer dis-
tributors are challenging the 
way the state issues licenses 
allowing craft breweries to sell their products in tasting rooms, a move that brew-ers say could put dozens of breweries out of business or, at the very least, halt rapid 
growth in the industry.
The Florida Retail Federa-
tion is suing the Department 
of Business and Professional Regulation, and the associa-
tions that represent Anheus-
er-Busch and MillerCoors distributors have asked to intervene in support of the 
suit. Separately, the Florida 
Independent Spirits Asso-ciation ﬁ  led a challenge with the agency. The association 
includes ABC Fine Wine & 
Spirits chain, which is the state’s largest liquor store chain.
The groups said they 
aren’t trying to shut down the brewery tasting rooms, 
but rather to clarify the law 
that allows the brewers to serve draft beer to drink on site and cans and bottles to 
take home.
“We’re not asking for 
them to withdraw any licens-
es. Moving forward, we’re asking them to stop issuing 
licenses as of right now under 
their current practices and to design a rule that better ex-plains how the law should 
be applied,” said Samantha 
Padgett, a lawyer with the re-tail federation.
The groups contend that 
the state agency has been 
improperly issuing retail li-
censes to brewers under a law passed to allow Anheuser-Busch to provide beer at the 
Busch Gardens theme park in 
the days when the brewing giant owned the attraction. If the agency doesn’t spell out rules on how the law should 
be applied, the Legislature 
might have to come up with a ﬁ  x, Padgett said.
But brewers, who have 
fought with distributors over tasting-room beer sales over the past few years, don’t be-lieve that’s the only motive behind the actions.
“If they get a clariﬁ  cation, 
then what? We know our tast-ing rooms drive them crazy. I can’t imagine that their intent at the end of the day is to get 
a clariﬁ  cation of the rules and 
then they’re just going to be done with it,” said Ben Davis, owner of Intuition Ale Works 
in Jacksonville. “Existing 
breweries and new breweries could be in limbo until this gets resolved.”
Eric Criss, president of 
the Beer Industry of Florida, which represents MillerCoors distributors, said he supports 
the idea of tasting-room sales 
for breweries, but the licens-ing process needs signiﬁ  cant clariﬁ  cation.
“It is our belief that such 
clariﬁ  cation will beneﬁ  t brewers, retailers and distrib-utors,” he said.
The actions also come 
after beer distributors said they wouldn’t ﬁ  ght a bill that would legalize 64-ounce beer containers known as growl-ers. The issue is a top prior-ity for brewers. Florida al-
lows 32-ounce and 128-ounce 
growlers, but it is the only state in the country that 
doesn’t allow the half-gallon 
size that is most popular with beer lovers.
Republican Rep. Dana 
Young of Tampa, who has pushed for legalization of the half-gallon growlers, was up-set by the lawsuit.
“This lawsuit seems to be 
aimed at shutting down the tasting rooms that consum-ers love and I think it begs the question: What good is a 
64-ounce growler if the brew-
ery tasting room does not ex-ist to sell it?” Young asked. “It puts the brakes on a booming industry in Florida.”
Florida has grown from 
a state with six craft brewer-ies in 2007 to nearly 90 now. Most start-up breweries need 
the proﬁ  t from tasting rooms 
in order to grow.
“Without the tasting 
rooms, you’d see a major-ity of these breweries go 
out of business,” said Josh 
Aubuchon, a lobbyist for the Florida Brewers Guild. “When you ﬁ  rst get started 
and you’re making 500 bar-
rels a year, the tasting room is your lifeblood. That’s how you stay aﬂ  oat.”Brewery licenses in 
question by liquor stores, distributors 
DO YOU WANT TO 
WORK WITH US?
The Independent Florida 
Alligator is looking for writers 
(news, features and sports), 
photographers, videographers, 
columnists, bloggers, designers 
and copy editors. Both contributing 
and staﬀ   positions are available. 
We’ll explain how the paper works 
and how you can be a part of it.
Come with questions, your 
resume and clips, if you have 
them. Business attire is not 
necessary. There will be pizza!
1105 W. University Ave.TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-16-14-9-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short walk to bus stop, large yard for fun/garden, fireplace, DW, game room, cent heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text/call 352-339-2342 GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com   1-16-14-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-16-15-8-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description.E-mail resume and day/year-round avail -
ability to info@thornebrookchocolates.com.    1-13-15-5-14
Sun Country Sports is accepting
applications for all depts., incl. rock-climbing, 
swim, summer camp, parties, gymnastics,
cleaning & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
1-13-15-5-14
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
OFFICE ASSISTANT
No experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
EXTENDED DAY
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM 
IS NOW HIRING
ALACHUA COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
****ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES/ SPORTS - $10//hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
****CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS - $10/hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
Hours required - M,T, Th, F - 12:45-5:30PM
Wed. 12:30-5:30PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
For more information call : 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
1-14-15-6-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for 
a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
CPA firm needs general office help Tuesday & Thursday 0800-1400. QuickBooks, Excel, Scanning, & a Tax Class a plus--detail oriented a must. Email resume to soren@cpa.vg   1-14-3-14
-WANTED-
Pers./Admin. Asst.
$25/hr.
home & office work in
G’ville, Jax & Asheville
Ben Campen
352-375-4152
1-15-15-2-14
St. Johns River Water Management District is actively seeking multi-talented appli -
cants for the position of Creative Services Specialist. Successful applicant will create web pages, design informational graphics and presentations, and produce videos. For more information and to apply, visit www.floridaswater.com. EEO/DFWP/TFWP/VET PREF    1-20-15-5-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Bryan Shelton views the 
early season as a time for the UF men’s tennis team to gain experience. Read the story on Page 14.Gators in the NBA
Joakim Noah scored six points and brought down seven rebounds in the Chicago Bulls’ 121-114 loss to the Orlando Magic on Monday.Ohio States bucks Oregon to win the national championship
The Ohio State Buckeyes defeated the Oregon Ducks 42-20 on Monday to become the 2014 national champions. OSU’s Ezekiel Elliott was named the offensive MVP after rushing for 246 yards and four touchdowns.When I arrived at women’s bas-
ketball media day in October, coach Amanda Butler was en-
ergetic and enthused about the upcom-ing season. Despite losing team leader Jaterra Bonds, Butler was eager to tell anyone who would listen that UF would 
be able to adapt and adjust.
Yet Florida is 
far behind the 
pace of last year’s team, which was 
14-3 at this point 
last season. 
The Gators 
currently sit a 
game above .500, 
a middling 9-8 record that looks to get worse with impending contests against Southeastern Conference foes No. 10 Kentucky and No. 1 South Carolina.
The Gators are right where numerous 
pundits predicted they’d be — the same dissenters who said Florida will see a down year are seemingly correct at this 
point in the season, barring an unfore-
seen surge and turnaround.
Sure, the Gators have their share of 
injuries. Former McDonald’s All-Amer-ican Ronni Williams has struggled half-
way through the season after spraining 
her ankle in UF’s third game against St. John’s. 
Antoinette Bannister needed three 
games to recover from a concussion only to sprain her ankle the very next game. 
Carlie Needles, the team’s backcourt 
leader, took a shot to the face against Ole Miss and is expected to miss time 
with concussion-like symptoms. 
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
After completing just their ﬁ  rst meet of 
the year, the No. 3 Gators are already fac-
ing a season’s worth of adversity.Junior Bridget Sloan and senior Jamie 
Shisler each suffered injuries on Sun-day against Ball State, and coach Rhonda 
Faehn addressed both Monday.
Sloan injured her foot during ﬂ  oor routine against Ball State, and Faehn said 
x-rays revealed there were no fractures. Sloan was still scheduled to undergo an 
MRI later in the day to see if she has any 
ligament or muscle damage.Shisler did 
not receive such good news. The senior’s season 
is over after tearing her Achilles tendon while participating in a warmup for the ﬂ  oor routine.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
While the Gators (9-6, 2-0 
Southeastern Conference) may be struggling with overall con-
sistency, there is one constant be-
tween this year’s team and last: the hype around Chris Walker.
As the hype grows, so have 
the expectations. 
Coach Billy Donovan has been 
concerned since the start of the regular season with managing the expectations surrounding 
Walker.
“Chris can’t 
have some of 
these expecta-
tions be through the roof and then evaluate him and say, well, he’s not reaching or liv-
ing up to these expectations be-cause it’s almost like the longer a 
guy is out of sight, out of mind, 
the more the legend grows,” Donovan said. “I’m a lot better player today than I was when I 
actually played.”
Donovan has said Walker has 
more expectations than any other player he’s coached in his career, 
but Walker said he doesn’t worry about the expectations. If any-thing, he said, the expectations push him to be better.
Since coming off a three-game 
suspension at the start of the sea-son, Walker has played in all of Florida’s games and has started 
three games in the process. 
Since senior center Jon Hor-
ford was suspended prior to the South Carolina game, Walker has 
also been ﬁ  lling in at center court during tip-offs.
Donovan noted the difference 
between the Walker of today 
and the freshman year Walker is Chris Walker learning to handle expectations
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Chris Walker jumps for the opening tipoff in Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi 
State on Saturday in the O’Connell Center.
Billy Donovan
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE GYM, PAGE 15SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15Butler needs 
to improve 
UF’s offense
Florida needs players to step up with Bridget Sloan injuredINSTAGRAHAM
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Jamie Shisler is out for season with Achilles tear UF GymnasticsRICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
An hour before Florida’s 
Southeastern Conference opener, 
Florida announced two of the 
most surprising suspensions of 
Billy Donovan’s 19-year tenure. 
Jon Horford, a soft-spoken 
transfer from Michigan, was sit-
ting out for a violation of team 
rules and, of all people, a feel-
good story in walk-on Zach Hod-
skins was joining him. 
Horford came off suspension 
before UF’s home-SEC opener 
against Mississippi State on Sat-urday, but still sat out the con-
test.
Hodskins was re-instated 
Monday by Donovan and both 
practiced Monday for the first 
time.
“I think we both agreed that 
it’d be better if (Horford) did not 
play against Mississippi State. We’ve got a little bit more time 
on the front end this week be-
cause we play on Thursday to kind of get him back in practice and get him doing those things,” 
Donovan said. “Jon’s a very, very 
diligent worker so I think even the week that he’s been out I know he’s been in the gym shoot-ing and working and doing some 
of those things.”
With Horford back in the 
lineup, the Gators may be able to 
play a basketball game at as close to full strength as they’ve played all season. 
Eli Carter said after Saturday’s 
72-47 win against Mississippi State that he’s as close to 100 per-cent as he’s been since the sea-son began and has battled strep throat, which caused him to lose 
13 pounds, as well as a mid-foot 
sprain throughout this year.
Sharpshooter Michael Frazier 
II has begun a round of antibiot-
ics to battle an upper-respiratory 
infection that left him nearly un-able to talk Saturday night, ac-cording to Donovan.
“Michael’s a tough kid. For 
the most part he’ll play injured you know he gets those stitches against Wake Forest 
and comes right back in,” Dono-van said. “I mean he’s not a 
guy that enjoys 
sitting out so you knew he was 
going to give his best effort to try and play in the game against Mississippi State but clearly he 
was not himself - strep throat and the upper respiratory infec-
tion had a lot to do with that.”
Donovan tries to get Walker 
running: Chris Walker has to get 
in better shape was the message Donovan gave through com-ments made to the media Mon-day about the state of the pro-
jected lottery pick’s current level 
of play. 
Walker struggles to battle 
through what Donovan called a low threshold of “cardiovascular 
pain,” and it’s holding him back in a way it didn’t with previous 
UF big men like Matt Bonner, Joakim Noah and David Lee. 
Walker averages 16.8 minutes 
per game, a team-low for players averaging double-digit minutes per game, and Donovan placed it on himself to get him better.
“I’m on him all the time when 
he gets tired he doesn’t quite run the floor as hard and I’m on him, ‘Chris you’ve gotta push through, you’re not getting better 
when you don’t push through, 
you have to push through,’” Donovan said.
Donovan learning to adjust 
to gun-shy point guard: Florida has had a recent past of trigger-happy point guards. Anthony Roberson, Scottie Wilbekin and Erving Walker were never afraid 
to take a three pointer. 
But starter Kasey Hill is differ-
ent — he’s only attempted eight 
three-pointers all season — and 
that has been something his head 
coach has had to get used to. Donovan said the lack of three-point attempts from his point guard is an opportunity for both 
of them to grow.
“For him, it’s not like he’s 
this prolific three-point shoot-
er,” Donovan said. “But Kasey 
has had some games where he 
has scored some points but he’s never been really wrapped up in scoring. But he’s got the ability to do it but I think when people 
back off of him and give him that, 
I think he can make good choices and decisions that can help our team.”
 FIVE FLORIDA PLAYERS COMPETED 
IN THEIR FIRST DUAL MEET DURING UF’S 9-3 WIN AGAINST WILLIAM & MARY ON SATURDAY.
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
The UF men’s tennis team is still young 
and so are its players.
But coach Bryan Shelton does not be-
lieve that comes as a disadvantage to the 
2015 dual season.
Florida had two true freshmen, two 
redshirt freshmen and a walk-on senior 
play their first dual meet for the Gators on 
Saturday — a 9-3 win against William & Mary. 
Just like any sport, playing a big game 
for the first time comes with intimidation and anxiety. 
“Did they have nerves? Sure they did, 
we all have nerves when we’re going out there to compete, especially when you’re wearing the Gator uniform,” Shelton said.One player Shelton pointed out specifi-
cally was freshman Chase Perez-Blanco, who made his Gator debut this weekend.
The Miami native had a rough going 
in his doubles match with partner Rich-ard Brej — the pair lost 10-2 to William & 
Mary’s duo Will Juggins and Lars de Boer.
But Perez-Blanco went on to dominate 
in his singles match against William & 
Mary’s Addison Appleby, clinching all 
three sets (6-4, 6-2, 6-2).
“Chase didn’t have quite the right in-
tensity level when he took the court in 
doubles,” Shelton said.
“He wasn’t ready from the first point, 
and I think he learned a valuable lesson there. I think the loss sometimes acceler-ates the process.”
While Shelton’s team is young, the 
third-year coach believes the team has two players — sophomores Maxx Lipman and Elliott Orkin — who can provide the knowledge needed to help the freshmen make a smooth transition.
“When you come into a program which 
you hope that you established as a culture and routines that the younger ones will follow,” Shelton said. “Maxx and Elliott 
have done a nice job of kind of providing 
that example.”
With such a young roster, Florida is 
confident its players will only continue to grow and develop throughout the season.
“Overall, I feel like we are really able to 
focus in on what we need to focus in on,” Shelton said. 
“How do we get better each day? We’re not there yet; we still have a long way to 
go. But the work ethic, the attention to de-
tail, the amount of respect these guys have for one another … I think some lessons have been learned.”14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Eli Carter prepares to shoot during Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Saturday in the 
O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Freshman Chase Perez-Blanco hits the ball during Florida’s 9-3 win against Wil-liam & Mary on Saturday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Notebook: Florida getting healthy, Walker needs to run
UF men’s tennis gaining experience early in seasonChris Walker
“I feel like we are really able to 
focus in on what we need to focus 
in on,”
Bryan Shelton 
UF men’s tennis coach“She was going to exhibition the 
event,” Faehn said, “and that was 
tough for the team to be able to see 
because she’s such a great personal-
ity, and it’s always hard for anyone to be injured, but let alone a senior.”
Faehn said the team was emotional 
and struggled to maintain focus dur-ing the last rotation Sunday because of the injuries, but she expects the en-tire group to rally and be ready to car-ry on — no matter the circumstances.
“It’s very hard, it’s challenging 
and it’s tough, but I think these ath-letes are extremely tough and they’ve experienced this their whole life,” she 
said. 
“Gymnastics is a huge high-im-
pact sport where injuries are just 
part of the sport. ... They’re strong and they’re resilient, and I know that 
they’re gonna group and get closer.”
In order to replace both veterans, 
the Gators will be looking for their 
other gymnasts to make up the differ-
ence, and Faehn said she’s looking to 
the freshmen to answer the call — in fact, one already has.
“I specifically asked all the girls in 
the circle when we were done who 
was going to be stepping up and who was going to be taking it upon themselves to really now show their 
strength, and Alex McMurtry was raising her hand high,” Faehn said. “We have great potential of the ath-letes, they just need to step it up.”
Faehn said McMurtry has a chance 
to compete on the balance beam Fri-day against No. 21 Auburn, while fel-low freshman Ericha Fassbender and 
senior Rachel Spicer are in the mix to 
fill-in for the vault. Spicer competed in the vault all last season.
The uneven parallel bars are an 
area of concern for Faehn, but she 
said she hopes to have all her lineups 
determined by Wednesday or Thurs-day.
The short week only adds to the 
difficulty of evaluating replacements 
before Friday’s meet — the athletes 
who competed Sunday will only have two training days leading up to the home opener. 
The athletes who did not compete 
against Ball State were able to get an additional practice session in on Mon-day.
Florida’s banged up, and at the worst possible time 
with the most difficult back-to-back games of SEC play on the horizon.
But I would be remiss if I failed to assert that Butler 
simply hasn’t done a good enough job at developing the team’s offense this season. 
The defensive side of basketball is critical, and one of 
the most challenging aspects of the game to teach. The strides the team has made on defense are commendable and recognizable. The Gators are great at getting steals, 
blocking shots and forcing turnovers through smothering 
defense.
Yet Florida is 1-3 in SEC play.Things may only get worse.When asked on Monday what the team was doing in 
practice to improve its offense, Butler replied, “We’re working on defense.”
The staff may want to rethink that decision. The de-
fense is solidifying — the offense has more holes than 
Swiss cheese.
The Gators are making just 35.4 percent of its baskets 
in conference play, which is good for an 11th-place tie in the SEC.
They are 10th among conference opponents in turn-
over margin (0.9) and 12th in assist-to-turnover ratio (0.6).
At this rate, Florida would be lucky to qualify for the 
WNIT — the NCAA Tournament is out of the question right now.
Unless Florida works on its offense.
Butler has spoken of the team’s rotation mindset — she 
poignantly referred to them as a team that comes at op-
ponents in waves, a unit that features numerous lineup 
changes.
It’s time to rethink that decision. Develop some lineup 
rhythm and consistency. The Gators have used six differ-ent starting lineups, only using two of those for more than 
three games. Florida seems to be at its best, and most comfortable, 
when the team plays a lineup of Kayla Lewis, Carlie Nee-dles, Cassie Peoples, January Miller and Haley Lorenzen. 
That starting squad has balanced scoring, and solid de-
fense – and a 5-3 record in games they’ve started together.
Amanda Butler has coached at Florida for eight years, but she’s never been to consecutive NCAA tournaments. 
That trend may continue if Florida doesn’t find some so-
lutions and fast. 
Those solutions involve running plays and developing 
offensive chemistry.
To defend her job, Butler needs to go on the offensive.“night and day.”
Last season, Walker missed most of the 
regular season with eligibility issues 
He didn’t make his official debut until 
Florida’s 68-58 win against Missouri on 
Feb. 4. 
In the 18 games he played last year, in-
cluding post-season, Walker averaged 1.9 points and 1.3 rebounds.
This season, Walker was only three 
games late to the start. 
He is averaging 16.8 minutes per game, 
4.1 rebounds and 5.8 points.  
While he’s seen growth and improve-
ment from the young but developing start-er, Donovan still sees room for improve-ment. But all the responsibility of improve-
ment does not fall solely on Walker.
“I’ve got to do a better job to get him to 
understand how to do a better job playing in and around the basket. He’s got to be do-
ing a better job finishing plays around the 
basket and I’ve got to do a better job coach-ing that,” Donovan said. 
“I’ve tried to, but I’m not getting through 
like I need to get through. I’ve got to do a better job helping because he needs to be more efficient down there with his length, athleticism, size and those kind of things.”
The hype around Walker is compound-
ed by the talk of ending his Florida career early — as early as after this season — to enter the NBA. 
At the start of the 2014-2015 season, 
Walker said he debated and discussed the idea of not having returned for this season and instead having gone straight to the NBA at the end of the 2013-2014 season — the same season in which Florida gradu-
ated four starting seniors. 
He said he decided to return for this sea-
son because he realized he needed to de-
velop more strength.
But before Walker considers leaving 
Florida for an opportunity in the NBA, he has an opportunity to be the difference-maker for the Gators. TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Working on defense isn’t only answer as SEC play heats up
COLUMN , from page 13HOOPS , from page 13Donovan thinks Walker still 
growing, improving for UF
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Amanda Butler addresses the team during a timeout. The Gators are 9-8 heading into Thursday night’s con -
test against Kentucky in Rupp Arena. Florida has struggled on offense throughout the season. 
“Chris can’t have some of these 
expectations be through the roof and 
then evaluate him and say, well, he’s 
not reaching or living up to these 
expectations because it’s almost 
like the longer a guy is out of sight, 
out of mind, the more the legend 
grows.”
Billy Donovan
UF basketball coach“We have great potential of 
the athletes. They just need to 
step it up.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coachAlex McMurtry, Rachel 
Spicer stepping up in lineup
GYM , from page 13JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Jeremy Mincey’s efforts were 
not enough.
In the Dallas Cowboys’ 26-21 
loss to the Green Bay Packers in 
Sunday’s NFC Divisional Round 
matchup, the defensive end re-
corded five tackles — including one for loss — while also forcing and recovering a fumble.
But while Mincey was able 
to wreak havoc in the trenches, Packers quarterback Aaron Rod-gers remained unfazed.
Rodgers completed 68.6-per-
cent of his passes for 316 yards and three touchdowns.
While the Cowboys saw their 
season come to an end on Satur-day, Mincey saw a resurgence in his playing time.
After being used sparingly 
last season, the 31-year-old Minc-ey — who was drafted in the 
sixth round of the 2006 NFL Draft 
(191st overall) out of UF by the New England Patriots — started all 16 regular-season games for the first time since the 2012 sea-son.
He recorded a team-high six 
sacks in the regular season in ad-dition to 36 total tackles and a 
forced fumble.
In his professional career, 
Mincey has 197 total tackles — 
including 140 solo stops — 26 sacks and seven forced fumbles.
Mincey enrolled at UF in 2004 
after transferring from Butler Community College in El Dora-do, Kansas.
He started all 24 games in his 
two seasons at Florida — coached by Ron Zook in 2004 and then 
Urban Meyer in 2005 — Mincey 
recorded 113 total tackles, 19.5 tackles for loss and 5.5 sacks. 
The defensive lineman also forced two fumbles and broke up nine passes during his time with the Gators.
Mincey was named to the All-Southeastern Conference second team in 2005 after leading all SEC defensive linemen with 61 tack-les.
16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015
AP Photo
Dallas Cowboys defensive end Jeremy Mincey causes Packers quar -
terback Aaron Rodgers to fumble during the Cowboys’ loss on Sunday.
GATORS IN THE NFL
Mincey shines, but ‘Boys lose in playoffs
  FRESHMEN HAD 
STRONG OUTING AT UAB INVITATIONAL.
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
The top-ranked Florida 
men’s and women’s track and 
field teams enter their two-week competitive hiatus with plenty of positive momentum 
following their performance at 
the UAB Blazer Invitational.
Seven of the Gators’ 12-ath-
lete contingent reached the fi-nals in their respective events, with two of the four final events ending  in victory for the Gators. Senior hurdler Bridgette Ow-ens had a field day, as she broke 
the school and meet record for 
the 60-meter hurdles.
However, Florida finished 
both its losing events one-one hundredth of a second away from victory.
Although losing is tough, 
especially in races as close as these were, coach Mike Hollo-
way is not sweating the small 
stuff just yet.
“It’s not about small wins or 
losses this time of year,” Hollo-way said.
Holloway emphasized his 
focus at this point of the season is to evaluate and perfect the technical aspects of his athletes.
Despite sophomore hurdler 
Yanick Hart losing the 60-me-ter hurdles finals by one-hun-
dredth of a second, he showed 
improvement in comparison to the beginning of his freshman campaign, shedding more than one-tenth of a second from the hurdles time from last year’s UAB Blazer Invitational.
“I don’t know how you can 
walk away displeased with 
someone when somebody got 
that much better,” Holloway said.
Holloway 
also praised Owens, who also im-
proved on her Birming-
ham perfor-
mance by more than one-tenth of 
a second from last year’s UAB meet.
“She is really starting to buy 
in to what I do and trust what I do,” Holloway said. “We think 
she has a tremendous upside, 
we think that she can do great things.”
Last weekend’s meet also 
served as an introduction for three Gator freshmen, includ-ing Damien Daniels — who fin-ished the men’s 60-meter dash final in 6.86 seconds, good for 
fourth place overall.
Holloway said that Daniels 
has been receiving some guid-
ance from one of the Gators’ upperclassmen— junior sprint-er Antwan Wright.
“Antwan  was great with 
Damien, he said ‘look, just do what you do every day in prac-
tice,’” Holloway said.
Holloway also offered some 
advice of his own for his new-
comers.
“Don’t go to this meet try-
ing to be somebody that you’re not,” Holloway said. “If you come here and be who you are, then we can make the adjust-
ment moving forward.”UF track progressing
Mike Holloway
