We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 128 TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
Junior becoming silent leader 
for Florida gymnastics
Bridgette Caquatto has been one of UF’s 
leaders the last two years, pg 13
Broken Shelves closing not due to broken 
business model
It’s closing after two years on June 1, pg 5.
PAM fashion show this Thursday
Check out details and other PAM events, pg 8.The Alligator is looking for a production manager
Check for a job description on our Twitter 
and Facebook page.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Three-Brass Night
Jack Sutte, playing the trumpet, faces Jesse McCormick, playing the horn, while performing as part of the Factory Seconds 
Brass Trio in the Music Building on Monday night. Not pictured is Richard Stout, playing trombone.
By Ansley Pentz 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF professor and research director Anne Donnelly received 
an email from the White House on Thursday, and she was in-
structed not to tell anyone but her immediate family about it.
“You don’t want to tick off the White House,” she said, 
laughing.
Donnelly is one of 14 mentors President Barack Obama 
named as recipients for the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Men-toring.
She was happy to share the news with 
students and colleagues when it was released 
the next day.
Donnelly and the other recipients will be 
honored at the White House later this year 
and will receive $10,000 from the National 
Science Foundation.
“The award is fun, but mentoring is the rewarding part,” said Donnelly, who holds a Ph.D. in science education.
Donnelly is the director of the UF Center for Undergraduate 
Research, and she has mentored UF students since she gradu-ated from the university in 1996.
“Anyone who meets her absolutely loves her because she’s 
always willing to help in any way that she can,” said Stephanie 
Forgas, one of Donnelly’s former students and an ofﬁ  ce assistant 
at the research center. White House recognizes UF prof for mentoring
SEE STEM,  PAGE 4
CAMPUS
By Lilianne Busto
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville community and Gator fans can 
return to the stadium this spring for the ﬁ  rst-ever 
“Movie in The Swamp.”
The University Athletic Association will host the 
event at 7:30 p.m. May 9 in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium.
“During the Fall, there are seven Saturdays of 
football,” said Alicia Longworth, assistant athletics director for UAA marketing and promotions. “We are hoping to have another feel-good moment in 
The Swamp.”
Fans can vote to see “The Avengers,” “Remem-
ber the Titans” or “Little Giants” on GatorZone’s website.
Tickets became available Monday. Admission is 
free for current UF students with a valid Gator 1 
Card  and 2015 football season ticket holders. Tick-ets will be $10 for adults and $5 for children 12 and 
under as well as seniors 55 and older.
“We have never done this before, so we hope to 
have a great crowd,” Longworth said.
The ﬁ  rst 500 season ticket holders to arrive can 
sit on the ﬁ  eld, she said. The rest will sit on bleach-
ers and chairs in the stadium.
Leigh Ann Kight, a 20-year-old UF telecommu-
nication sophomore, said she thinks this is a good idea and has heard of other schools doing some-thing similar.
She’ll be voting for “Remember the Titans” be-
cause it’s her ultimate favorite. The winning movie 
will be shown on both the north and south GatorVi-
sion boards.
Longworth said the event will be a unique way 
to enjoy The Swamp.  UAA to hold 
movie night in The Swamp
THE CURRENT LAW FOR 
MINORS IS UNENFORCABLE.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Florida lawmakers are introducing new 
legislation this session to correct a 2011 
sexting law that wound up being unen-forceable.
The original law aimed to keep minors 
who sent provocative photos from being la-beled as sex offenders by making sexting a noncriminal violation for ﬁ  rst-time offend-ers, according to the report from Florida’s Fourth District Court of Appeals.
But a West Palm Beach assistant attor-
ney general in 2013 dismissed a petition for 
delinquency concerning a minor sexting on the grounds that because sexting was non-
criminal, it didn’t constitute a “violation of law” or a “delinquent act.”
“It made the statute unusable,” said 
Rep. Bobby DuBose, a co-sponsor of HB 845, which will make sexting legislation enforceable.
Sexting in regards to minors is deﬁ  ned  Fla. lawmakers propose bill to clarify sexting
SEE SEXTING,  PAGE 4“W e have never done this before, so we hope 
to have a great crowd.”
Alicia Longworth
assistant athletics director, UAA marketingDonnelly
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 128
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
I Am Success event with 
Innovation Academy
Student Government Innovation Academy Cabinet, The Career Resource Center and IA 
Ambassadors are hosting I Am 
Success. This event is open to all students on campus and will be held today from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. in Beaty Commons and Beaty Library. It will start with a presentation from IA stu-dents who have found success on campus, followed by the 
CRC Ambassadors who will be 
helping discuss six important topics in the professional world: LinkedIn and professional social media; interview skills; campus involvement; resume building; job and internship searching; and elevator pitches. Small ap-petizers and free headshots will 
be available to all students who 
attend, so go out and learn the ins and outs of the professional world.  
‘Theorizing Shamanism in the 
Contested Field between Academia, Colonialism, and Religious Practice’
Kocku von Stuckrad of the 
University of Groningen, Netherlands, will be giving a lecture on Shamanism today from 6:15 to 8:10 p.m. in Pugh Hall, Room 170. Discourses of authenticity and appropriation of religious heritage mark the borders of this contested field. 
The lecture addresses the un-
derlying dynamics with a focus on what is often called “neo-shamanism.” He argues that this religious practice is in fact the materialization of schol-arly discourses more or less de-tached from “indigenous tradi-tion,” although the construction 
of “indigenousness” plays an 
important role in the formation and validation of knowledge in this field. This event is free and open to the public. A reception in honor of Stuckrad will be held afterward.
Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest videos are up on UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education Facebook page and are awaiting your views. Check out all three and like your favor-ites. Videos are awarded points in the Fan Favorites category of judging based on Facebook likes 
at facebook.com/STRIVEUF/
videos.Voting ends today.
Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit 
submissionsAlachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center is seek-ing art submissions for the 2015 Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit held April 24 to 30 at the 
Civic Media Center and Wild Iris 
Books in Gainesville. Survivors are encouraged to submit origi-nal artwork of all forms, includ-ing performance pieces. For more information, call 352-264-6763.
Take Back the Night
Recognize National Sexual Assault Awareness Month by attending the annual Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence. Visit ta-bling organizations to learn more about how they prevent and respond to sexual violence, make a poster of support to 
carry on the two-mile march 
around campus, enjoy soulful musical performances, take in the wisdom of our two keynote survivor-speakers and share your own experience during open mic if you are a survivor or support survivors. It will be held Wednesday from 6 to 9 
p.m. on Norman Field.
Authors@UF: P.K. 
Ramachandran Nair
P.K. Ramachandran Nair, dis-tinguished professor in the School of Forest Resources and Conservation, IFAS, will talk about a book he 
edited,“Agroforestry – The 
Future of Global Land Use,” on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in the Marston Science Library Conference Room 136. Professor Nair, the “father of modern agroforestry,” sees great prom-ise in the integration of trees into agricultural systems as a 
strategy to alleviate global cli-
mate change through carbon sequestration. Free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
Cafe Cultural — Chips and Salsa 
NightJoin the Institute of Hispanic-
Latino Cultures, La Casita, for 
its second Café Cultural of the semester. They will be host-ing a Chips and Salsa Night on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. There will be live music by Los Panas 352. Come join them for an evening of music, dancing and good vibes.
GatorNights
Join GatorNights and the Inter-Residence Hall Association for a Carnival Hoedown on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1  a.m. Enjoy the IRHAOPOLOY Carnival on the North Lawn with free car-nival rides. In the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, get your coun-try on with live country music from Austin Moody, leather bracelets, do-it-yourself Mason 
jars and cowboy hats, square 
dancing lessons and free food and root beer floats. See “The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies” at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. It all ends in a Cotton Eyed Joe dance party and a free nacho/taco bar at Midnight Munchies. 
It’s free with a Gator 1 Card.
Second annual Three-Minute 
Thesis competition
The Graduate School and the Graduate Student Advisory Council are excited to an-nounce the Second Annual UF Three-Minute Thesis Finals 
Competition, which will take 
place April 7 at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Ten UF finalists from across mul-tiple disciplines explain their research in three minutes or less with one static PowerPoint slide. The judges will award a first- and second-place prize, 
and attendees get to vote for 
their favorite in the People’s Choice Award. Go out and sup-port graduate students. Light re-freshments will be provided.
Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a troupe of real, rescued house 
cats that purrform acrobatic 
feats of agility — they roll on balls, balance on beams, ride skateboards and more. The grand finale is the only all-cat band known to exist — Tuna and the Rock-cats.  Purrforming at the Hippodrome State Theatre April 16 through 19. More infor-
mation on the act can be found 
at circuscats.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Michelle Neeley
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gretchen Church was 32 years old when 
she was diagnosed with Parkinson’s dis-
ease almost 17 years ago.
It was a time when there was hardly 
support for people with Parkinson’s, espe-cially for those like her with young-onset Parkinson’s disease.
“It is no longer just your grandpa’s dis-
ease,” she said.
Church said she used an Internet mes-
sage board for people with Parkinson’s disease, where she ended up meeting her 
husband, Michael.
The Churches are two of Michael Okun’s 
patients at the UF Health Center for Move-
ment Disorders and Neurorestoration.
On March 23, Okun was a member of a 
Champions of Change panel at the White 
House addressing Parkinson’s treatments 
and research.
In an email, he wrote that he hopes the 
panel will start a national conversation about Parkinson’s and urge people to help 
the more than 1 million Americans living 
with Parkinson’s disease.
The four simple words “you have Par-kinson’s disease” will drain the dreams of 50,000 people worldwide each year, Okun said, but he and other medical profession-
als can make a difference in their lives.
“It is up to our generation to carry this 
message forward as we continue to inno-vate future treatments,” he said.
Church said the care she and her hus-
band have received at the center has great-ly improved the quality of their lives, and, 
most importantly, it’s given them hope. The couple shook with tremors and had memory loss, among other nonmotor is-sues.
They both went through deep brain 
stimulation surgery at the center, and Church said the care from Okun and his staff changed their lives.
“We were at the point where our qual-
ity of life was suffering so badly because of the symptoms of Parkinson’s that we were ﬁ  nding it more and more difﬁ  cult to be able to reach out and do what we needed to do,” she said.
The Churches attended the panel and 
said doctors, researchers and patients shared stories, answered questions and spoke about overcoming the disease. They 
went to Washington, D.C., to advocate for 
Parkinson’s funding from the National In-stitutes of Health.
After their surgeries, the Churches con-
tinued their Parkinson’s disease advocacy 
work with their nonproﬁ  t organization, 
Movers & Shakers. They also speak around the world about their experiences and work as state directors for the Parkinson’s 
Action Network. Church said she doesn’t 
believe they could have continued without their surgeries at UF Health.
“While we have Parkinson’s, Parkin-
son’s doesn’t have us,” Church said.
Okun said there is a worldwide crisis of 
misinformation. Parkinson’s is not the end of the world, he said. In fact, it can become the beginning of a wonderful journey and a 
meaningful life.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dr. Michael Okun (right), co-director of the UF Health Center for Movement Disor-
ders and Neurorestoration, interacts with a patient. Okun was a member of a Cham-pions of Change panel at the White House on March 23 addressing Parkinson’s treat-ments and research.
CAMPUS
UF doctor hosted at White House for Parkinson’s panelBy Mary Brooke Stubbs
Alligator Contributing Writer
In Florida, water is being taken out of the aquifers faster than 
it can be replenished.
But Matthew Williams, director of the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustain-
ability and Energy Integration, said he hopes Water Conserva-
tion Month will teach people how to use water more efﬁ  ciently.
“We are so dependent upon having that water there when 
we want it,” Williams said. 
People need to recognize there is much that goes on behind 
locating and purifying water, he said. In years past, Williams 
had rainwater barrels that harvest the rainwater off the roof to conserve water. He would then use the barrels to irrigate his 
backyard when needed.
For Water Conservation Month in Florida, Williams and 
the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability will be holding a water awareness day April 15 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Reitz Union North Lawn. There will be displays that demonstrate how much water a person uses on a daily basis, as well as what UF is doing to conserve water. Williams encourages students to report water leaks around campus.
“You can use up to 4,000 gallons of water sometimes from a 
leaky ﬂ  ush valve on a toilet on campus,” he said. “That is more than I use during a month at home, and it happens in a one- to two-day period.”
Jeremy Toms, a 22-year-old UF environmental engineering 
graduate student, said he believes every student should be pas-sionate about conserving water. Toms works at the Sustainabil-ity Hut on UF’s campus to push for water conservation.
“I think every month is Water Conservation Month,” he 
said. “I think everyone should be passionate about water con-
servation.”UF sustainability to recognize Water Conservation Month
“It is up to our generation to carry this 
message forward as we continue to 
innovate future treatments.”
Gretchen Church
Dr. Okun’s patient“W e are so dependent upon having that water there 
when we want it.”
Matthew Williams
director, Office of Sustainability4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
May I Have This Dance?
Christina Estevez, a 20-year-old UF criminology  and law junior, dances casino-style salsa with Alex 
Bazante, a 26-year-old UF chemistry graduate student, on Turlington Plaza on Monday. Both were members of Gator Salsa Club and had been dancing salsa for a number of years.
ORGANIZERS EXPECT 500 PARTICIPANTS.
By Moriah Gaynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF organization is reopening the channels for conversa -
tion on the prominent issue of sexual violence.
The Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education’s an -
nual event, Take Back the Night, will be at 6 p.m. Wednesday 
on Norman field, and Rita Lawrence, the interpersonal violence prevention coordinator for GatorWell, said she expects at least 500 people to attend.
“There’s a saying that ‘no one has to do everything to pre
-
vent sexual violence, but everyone has to do something,’” Law -
rence said.  Lawrence, STRIVE’s staff adviser and Take Back the Night’s 
planning committee chairwoman, said that the event has been held internationally for more than 35 years. However, it’s never been very large at UF.
Lawrence said there were about 100 people 
last year, but this year she expects more, as 
STRIVE has gained more recognition.
“In the time since (last year), there’s been so 
much focus in the media nationally on campus 
sexual assault,” Lawrence said. “This year I knew I wanted to make it bigger and to have more of an impact.”
This year’s event will feature a 2-mile march around cam
-
pus, local performances and information on sexual assault pre -
vention and aid. There will be two keynote speakers who have survived sexual violence, as well as a chance for others to share their stories.
Participants are encouraged to bring posters, but there will 
be an opportunity to make some before the march.
Cassandre Gaspard, a volunteer peer educa
-
tor, said STRIVE’s mission to make UF free of interpersonal violence through education, em
-
powerment and inspiration can be seen during Take Back the Night.
The UF criminology and law sophomore said 
this event will educate more UF students on rape 
culture in hopes of increasing sensitivity for the topic.
“I don’t think enough students are aware of the prominence 
of sexual violence and how victims are affected on a day-by-day basis,” Gaspard, 20, said. “This event gives the chance for victims to have a voice in the public.”STRIVE holds march against interpersonal, sexual violence
CAMPUS
By Samantha Gutman
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new app has the potential to take The 
Gator Nation everywhere.
Twitter released its new Periscope app 
Thursday, and it allows users to stream live video directly from a smartphone and display 
it to anyone in the world. The app, which is 
currently only available for Apple products, has already created buzz on the UF campus.
Bhavika Swaroop, a UF health science 
sophomore, watched UF’s Periscope account broadcast a video of Lake Alice over the week-end.
“You could hear the birds chirping and you 
could hear the water,” Swaroop, 19, said. “It was pretty cool.”
Ryan Morejon, a social media specialist at 
UF, said he had been trying to get his hands on 
the app for a few weeks. He said the UF social 
media team signed up for the beta version, but they never got an invitation.
They were on the lookout for it until they 
heard it was live in the app store Thursday.
Morejon said the beta version would’ve 
allowed UF to test Periscope before it was re-leased and find possible glitches.
However, Morejon said the social media 
team has been having fun playing around with it.
“There’s so many possibilities with live-
streaming, so we’re trying to figure out what we can do,” he said.In the future, Morejon hopes UF can use 
Periscope to live-stream major campus events such as Dance Marathon. He said strategizing how to use the app and getting more users en-gaged will make events more special.
“It becomes a really awesome, interactive, 
immersive tool to use,” Morejon said.  
Anyone in the world can tune in to UF’s live 
streams, including alumni.
“Let’s say I’m an alumnus who hasn’t been 
to Gainesville in five years,” he said. “I can go to a live stream of Turlington at its busiest hour, and it’ll take me back. There’s a nostal-gia element to it.”UF social media team scopes out new video streaming app
by the 2014 Florida Statute as the use of “a computer, or any other device capable of electronic data transmission or distribution, to transmit or distribute to another 
minor any photograph or video 
of any person which depicts nu-dity.” 
The case cited in the appeal 
concerns a teenage girl who sent a picture of her vagina via text mes-sage to a 13-year-old female class-mate. The girl said she sent the photo “because she was ‘bored.’”
The House bill (HB 845) and a 
Senate bill (SB 1112) are currently moving through the legislature.
If the House bill passes the 
Judiciary Committee, it will go to the House floor for a vote.
The Senate bill had its first 
hearing in the Criminal Jus-tice Committee on Monday and 
passed unanimously. It still has 
two committees to go through be-fore it can go to the Senate floor for a vote.
If the bills pass both commit-
tees and both chambers, they will most likely go to a conference 
committee where differences be-
tween the bills would be resolved, said Lawrence Dodd, a Manning J. Dauer Eminent Scholar in po-litical science at UF.
“The House and the Senate 
have to pass the final legislation in exactly the same language for it to become law,” Dodd said.
Under the 2011 law, minors 
who commit a first offense of sex-ting face eight hours of commu-nity service, a $60 penalty and/or mandatory completion of a cyber-safety program. The penalties re-main unchanged in the new bill.
The new legislation will pro-
vide that the circuit court have 
exclusive jurisdiction of proceed-
ings in which a minor reportedly commits a noncriminal viola-tion and require that minors sign and accept a citation indicating a promise to appear before the ju-venile court.
DuBose said he is hopeful that 
the bill will pass.
“It’s a good bill,” DuBose said. 
“When you do something to pro-tect our most vulnerable, it’s al-ways a good thing.”SEXTING,  from pg 1First committee passed it
Forgas said she first met Donnelly when 
she was a sophomore attending a Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars orientation.
Now a first-year health education and be-
havior graduate student, Forgas said Donnelly 
encouraged her to go to graduate school.
“She’s just very influential as far as my de-
velopment as a student,” the 23-year-old said.Donnelly said she developed and ran the 
South East Alliance for Graduate Education 
and the Professoriate, which helped 80 minor-ity graduate students in science and engineer-ing fields earn their Ph.D.s.
These graduates now work at companies 
like Intel and government agencies such as the Department of Agriculture, she said. They also 
hold positions at laboratories and universities 
across the country.
Donnelly said she still keeps in contact with her mentees.
“In the age of Facebook, it’s easy to be in 
touch with people all over the country,” she said.
Donnelly was nominated for the award by 
colleagues and a former student in 2012, and she said she had no way of knowing when the White House would decide.
Donnelly said she credits much of her suc-
cess to her mentor, Brij Moudgil, a UF Depart-ment of Materials Science and Engineering professor. 
Supportive mentors are important, she 
said.
“Everyone should have one or two of those, 
and (Moudgil) was mine,” Donnelly said.
Since then, Donnelly said she’s paid it for-
ward by helping so many students. They are determined to succeed and appreciative of 
help, she said.
“I’ve got the best job on the planet,” she 
said.STEM,  from pg 1Her colleagues and a former student nominated her for the award“There’s so many possibilities with live-
streaming, so we’re trying to figure out 
what we can do.”
Ryan Morejon
social media specialist, UFCAMPUSTUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Conor Soper
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nestled behind the Hippo-
drome State Theatre, Gainesville’s 
distinctive bookstore, bar, art gal-lery and music venue will soon be closing its doors.
“So, some bittersweet news 
here,” read a message from the Broken Shelves Books & Art Face-book page Thursday. While the bookstore will be celebrating it’s second anniversary Saturday, it will also be closed by June 1.
However, Broken Shelves, at 
101 SE Second Place in the Sun Center, was not a victim of hard times for bookstores. Instead, the store did very well for itself, said co-owner David Astor.
“It’s more than what I thought 
could ever come out of it,” Astor said. “I was very prepared to eat the losses for a year of running a 
bookstore and learning that, and 
the fact that it was met with such immediate and overwhelming de-light and praise and success was great.”
Astor, 28, opened the bookstore two years ago, and later the other co-owner, Eric Chianese, bought half the business.
The two now ﬁ  nd themselves invested in other work and not as involved in the store as they had originally hoped, Astor said. The message on their Facebook page continued by adding that Astor has been busy with other time-sensitive projects while Chianese has been balancing a career in law.
Before Broken Shelves closes, 
Astor said he plans on hosting some more events.
“We’re going to try to squeeze 
in as many of the things that we think we’ll miss before we go,” he 
said.
Some of those events include 
Weird Wednesdays, drunk lec-
tures and hopefully a closing con-cert, Astor said.
As for the possibility of keeping 
Broken Shelves running, he said he had never planned on it but is open to the idea.
“We would want to keep it go-
ing if we found necessarily the right person and the landlords were willing and all the logistics worked out,” Astor said.
Daniel Feinberg, a UF master’s 
graduate in wildlife ecology, said he ﬁ  rst went to Broken Shelves for the books but started talking with 
Astor. He was eventually booked 
as a musician for a songwriters showcase at the bookstore and later for his own show.
“I think when I ﬁ  rst stepped 
into Broken Shelves what I liked about it was that it’s a bookstore and it’s an art gallery and it’s a music venue and it’s a bar all in 
this tiny space that feels like some-
body’s living room,” Feinberg, 24, said. 
Conor Soper / Alligator 
David Astor, 28, sits in his bookstore, Broken Shelves, in downtown Gainesville. “It was more than I 
ever thought could come out of it, ” Astor said of the soon-to-be-closed business. “The fact that it was met with such immediate and overwhelming delight and praise and success was great. ”
 Broken Shelves closing not due to broken business model
IT WAS ABOUT $120,000.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Last week, Santa Fe College Stu-
dent Senators approved the $120,000 
Student Government budget for the 2015-16, including a chunk of mon-ey going toward SG travel.
The budget is $53,745 less than 
last year’s, which is mostly due to the college’s decision last semester to cut directors’ and leadership team members’ pay, SG Treasurer Aadil Muhammad said.During the budget debate last 
week at the meeting, senators main-ly focused on the $15,625 allocated to SG Developmental Travel.
For about an hour, senators dis-
cussed whether the funds — which are $6,625 more than last year — are too much.
The travel budget is divided into 
two sections. Of the $15,625 total, $12,625 is allocated toward send-ing SG members to Florida College System Student Government Asso-ciation conferences, where they can network with other students and col-leges.
Senate President Jeremy Pierce argued the money should be invest-ed into the Senate overﬂ  ow account where he said it would be put to bet-ter use by allowing clubs to request more money.
Director of Exter-
nal Affairs Cody Pat-ton said he thought 
otherwise. While he 
acknowledges the trips are very expensive, he said it’s a reward-ing experience where SG members can make connections with students from other community colleges and meet with state legislators to voice their opinions.The number of SG members sent 
on the trip varies, said SG adviser Doug Bagby.
There is a $200-$300 conference 
registration fee, and hotel prices can 
reach a couple hun-dred dollars a night. Members stay at the 
conferences for three 
days and two nights, Patton said. 
The remaining 
$3,000 in the travel budget will be used to send the new leadership team members on a team develop-ment trip.
Student Body President Austin Browning said when he went on the trip last year in Tampa, he hardly knew his fellow leadership team members.
But by the end, he said, they 
knew how to work together to over-come obstacles and deal with chal-lenges they’d face in SG.
Despite the problems that hit the 
current leadership team over the past two semesters, Browning said that without the trip, SG would be in worse condition than it is.
“If you think this (leadership 
team) was bad, try having a (lead-ership team) without the leadership retreat,” he said. 
 SFC Senate approves SG budget, including $15K for travel“It’s more than what I thought 
could ever come out of it.”
David Astor
co-owner, Broken Shelves
SANTA FEThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
New ‘Daily Show’ 
host unexpected, 
but Noah-brainer
It’s been about a month and a half since Jon Stewart 
announced his retirement from “The Daily Show.” The time between then and now was spent frantically won-dering who was going to replace the beloved comedian’s seat at Comedy Central’s World News Headquarters in 
New York. Fans mourned the end of Stewart’s 16-year ten-ure as the show’s host, and some offered up their own opin-ions as to who should succeed the comedian who has be-come one of the most trusted men in America. Some hoped “Daily Show” correspondent Jessica Williams would replace Stewart, but she dispelled the rumors in a tweet saying she was “extremely under-qualiﬁ  ed” for the position. That was Feb. 15; since then, most of us decided to sit tight and try to ignore the inevitable.
On Monday, the blissful hiatus from thinking about Stew-
art’s departure was broken. Comedy Central has picked the show’s newest host: 31-year-old South-African comedian Trevor Noah.
Noah is already one of the correspondents for “The Daily 
Show,” ﬁ  rst appearing on set last December. Beyond that, he’s largely unknown in America: Before yesterday’s an-nouncement, he was merely a stand-up comedian better known by international audiences. His routine deals with growing up as a mixed-race child under Apartheid and the experience of being an African abroad.
He’s no Jon Stewart. His humor is more subtle, falsely 
lulling you with its lightheartedness until the moment he drops caustic social criticism directly on your head. But, like Stewart, Noah is beautiful and charming as all hell — plus, the South-African accent is really soothing.
It will deﬁ  nitely take some getting used to, but we think 
the change is going to be well-received. We’re glad Comedy Central went with Noah over a cheap imitation of Stewart. As Comedy Central President Michele Ganeless said about the decision: “You don’t hope to ﬁ  nd the next Jon Stewart — there is no next Jon Stewart. So, our goal was to ﬁ  nd someone who brings something really exciting and new and different.”
Still, it’s tough not to feel a bit apprehensive about the 
change. Many of us regardless of ideology grew up watch-ing Stewart, who started hosting the show when most of us were between the ages of 2 and 6. Letting go of him won’t be easy; neither will ﬁ  lling the Jon Stewart-shaped hole in our screens and hearts with someone so different and unfa-miliar.
It’s difﬁ  cult to imagine, actually, that Stewart was once 
in the same position Noah’s in today — in 1999, he replaced the show’s ﬁ  rst host, Craig Kilborn. The impact of “The Daily Show” doesn’t just belong to Stewart; it’s the sum of the ef-fort of its writers and correspondents, like Stephen Colbert, Steve Carell and John Oliver, who have gone on to become stars in their own rights.
And, it’s not like Stewart is dead — he’ll still be around, 
just not where we’re used to him being. Noah might have large shoes to ﬁ  ll, but we’re conﬁ  dent he’ll do it well and wish him the best of luck.Pao case exploits real gender workplace issues
Ellen Pao, the woman who accused a powerful 
venture capital ﬁ  rm of gender discrimination, lost her case last week. Pao claimed that Kleiner Per-
kins Byers & Cauﬁ  eld refused to promote her — 
and ultimately ﬁ  red her — because of her gender.
The trial, which consumed Silicon Valley for weeks, 
ignited a conversation about gender discrimination in 
a ﬁ  eld where only 6 percent of venture capital partners 
are women.
Following the verdict, social media outlets com-
mended Pao for bringing such an important topic to light. Users described her as a courageous ﬁ  ghter for 
women’s rights, boldly putting her career on the line to 
stand up for gender equality in the work place.
Within hours of the decision, the hashtag #ThankY-
ou-EllenPao started spreading rapidly on Twitter. To 
many, Pao’s legal battle gave a voice to women in the 
tech industry who experience unfair treatment in a ﬁ  eld largely dominated by men.
While I am thankful that gender discrimination is ﬁ  -
nally receiving the attention it deserves, we shouldn’t 
be so quick to depict Pao as a symbol for women’s 
rights in the workplace.
Gender discrimination is a real and prevalent issue 
that should be taken seriously, yet Pao made a mock-
ery of it with her lawsuit. Even if her lawsuit does suc-
ceed in having positive effects on equal treatment in the workplace, we should not excuse her shameful exploita-tion of the struggle for gender equality.
Pao, who currently serves as Reddit’s interim CEO, 
claimed that KPBC’s work environment made it more difﬁ  cult for women to succeed. She also alleged that the company retaliated against her after she complained that she was pressured into a sexual relationship with 
a partner at the ﬁ  rm, who was eventually ﬁ  red. She 
sought $16 million in damages.
It may be tempting to rush to support Pao’s claims 
against KPBC, but the facts are important. Years after Pao initially informed members of the ﬁ  rm about the re-
lationship — which ended after she furiously discovered he hadn’t left his wife — she con-
tinued receiving salary increases, was nominated by a supervisor for 
a prestigious fellowship and was 
paid more than some of her male peers.
As Pao’s work performance con-
tinued to dwindle, the ﬁ  rm tried to help her improve by offering men-toring and coaching sessions from top Silicon Valley executives. When 
she still received negative reviews, the ﬁ  rm eventually 
suggested that she move on to head an operations role 
at one of its portfolio companies, which is a common transition for many junior partners. She was offered a severance package of $33,800 per month for six months.
Pao’s case might have ignited a conversation about 
gender discrimination in the workplace but not for the right reasons. While her case did succeed in shed-ding light on sexism in the tech industry, the evidence strongly suggests that Pao’s termination had nothing to 
do with her gender or her earlier complaint about mis-
treatment. She exploited this issue for her own personal gain.
And yet, some prominent news sites generalized 
Pao’s case and promoted her as a symbol for women’s rights without objectively looking into the facts of her lawsuit. That only added to the court of public opinion collectively showering her with respect and admiration.
Wrongly accusing a ﬁ  rm of gender discrimination 
for personal gain does not make Pao a champion of women’s rights, and we shouldn’t treat her as such. In bringing on her ridiculous case, Pao diminished the real grievances that women face in the workplace.
As we continue striving to overcome sexism and gen-
der discrimination in the workplace, I hope that we re-member to celebrate people who are truly standing up for women. Ellen Pao isn’t one of them.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, I found myself counting out 
exactly $2.43 in an embarrassingly obvi-ous way for a small cup of coffee from 
a local coffee shop. Why? First, because 
I really wanted that coffee. I’ve come to 
temporarily accept the fact that I’m addicted to coffee, or at least the crazed sugar-caffeine 
high that coffee graciously gives me. More im-
portantly, however, I counted out the cents of my bill because I was down to about only $10 to my name, and I didn’t want to waste a single penny.
This seems like a quintessential thing about college: 
You’re going to be broke sometimes.
The idea has become so commonplace because of en-
tertainment tropes we all can remember watching in ‘90s 
era ﬁ  lms and sitcoms — a starving-artist type of univer-
sity student, struggling to make his or her way in the world, scrimping for cash in such a cool, ultra-bohemian way that he or she also gets to somehow look completely 
fabulous doing it. As a bonus point for his wallet, at the 
end of an episode the lovable-but-broke student sudden-ly ﬁ  nds himself either landing a sudden windfall or magi-cally downing a beer or two with friends at a bar before the ending credits roll, with no mention at all of previous 
money problems.
In current TV shows, one could argue there is an even 
larger amount of gloriﬁ  cation in struggling to make ends 
meet in your early university and post-college years, 
such as HBO’s “Sex and the City” and “Girls” or CBS’s 
aptly named sitcom, “2 Broke Girls.” These shows depict faintly theatrical money problems and unrealistic, slop-pily formed solutions.
This is understandable, as no one really wants to 
watch a TV show where ﬁ  nancial woes are a real struggle for characters. But it’s strange to think how regular the trope of a starving artist, a dedicated student scraping to-gether his or her college funds or a friend couch-surﬁ  ng because they can’t pay their lease has become in society.
In fact, the notion is often quite ridiculously 
romanticized. Having no funding for pursuits and passions is depicted on our televisions and in our avant-garde poetry books as though it’s a freeing expression of individuality. Essential-
ly, many people seem to have the attitude, as 
unappetizing as this is, that it is hip to not have money. Perhaps you are “ﬁ  nding yourself.”
“This is what every college student has to go through 
at some point,” I say to myself. “It’s a rite of passage.”
However, perhaps I would ﬁ  nd myself much easier 
if I didn’t have to worry about exactly how much I can spend at the grocery store for the month, while keeping enough money left over to have a social life in college, 
one of the most expensive areas of the entire secondary-
education experience outside of actual tuition and fees.
Despite the cavalier attitude portrayed by the enter-
tainment industry we are supposed to subscribe to, mon-ey issues are often kept under tight wraps in college, and 
those struggling with paying for tuition or rent remain 
ashamed and quiet about these problems, often to the detriment of physical and mental health. Nobody wants to admit that they are running low on funds, that they 
are putting their nose to the grindstone, that they are 
working extra shifts at their part-time job because they must, not because they can score extra cash. Nobody is willing to admit they are anything less than perfectly happy and successful, and nobody wants to ask for help.
It’s true the American dream is to work hard to 
achieve your goals, but the American dream should not be twisted by false standards into an unspoken rule that to ask for help from others is to show weakness.
There are a great many things wrong with the way 
money is handled in society, by the government and in education spending. I couldn’t possibly list all of them in this column. However, I do know that in today’s culture of normalized excessive spending, the college student 
counting out the exact change for his or her cup of coffee 
is often shamed into silence, however indirectly.
As students, we need to be mindful of this shameful 
double standard in monetary realities and expectations, 
and work to end the taboo against speaking about ﬁ  nan-
cial difﬁ  culty. 
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations 
sophomore. Her column appears on Tuesdays. Taboo against discussing money problems unhealthy Column
Did you get to see T-Pain and comedian John Mulaney at the Big Orange Fest? Did you also get to see the hilarious yaks, tweets and status updates throughout 
the shows? Odds are, you weren’t able to keep up with 
it all, and you may have been suffering from FOMO 
because of it. FOMO, or the fear of missing out, is the feeling of anxiety people get when they worry about an exciting event 
that might be happening elsewhere. It’s a cocktail of emotions 
that includes regret, helplessness and guilt that can be triggered by social media. Something as simple as seeing a Facebook sta-tus, Snapchat story, Instagram post or a tweet can cause FOMO, leading someone to think that they’re missing out on a great 
party, wedding, football game or conversation. Similarly, not 
seeing a friend’s status, story, post or tweet can cause FOMO because it leads to uncertainty about what events could be tak-ing place off social media. FOMO is more pervasive than ever, 
but with a tweak in the way we think, it’s completely prevent-
able.
Fifty-ﬁ  ve percent of adult millenni-
als report feeling overwhelmed by the amount of information that needs to be 
digested in order to stay up to speed with 
society’s popular topics. In today’s fast-paced society, that’s not a surprise. We’re bombarded with new trending topics ev-
ery hour, and the news cycle is faster than 
ever. Furthermore, we’re confronted with constant updates of where our friends are and what they’re doing. We subsequently feel obligated to be everywhere and aware of everything at the 
same time or suffer the trauma of missing out. After all, we see 
that people on our news feed are laughing at the latest vine, partying in Midtown and celebrating someone’s law school ac-ceptance all at the same time, so why aren’t we?
First of all, we can’t. There are so many parties, TV shows, 
trending hashtags, vines, yaks and life events to keep up with that it’s impossible to be everywhere and aware of everything 
at the same time. Trying to keep up is mentally exhausting, 
and that’s why many people suggest deleting social media completely in order to avoid online-induced FOMO. They ar-gue that social media and FOMO go hand in hand, so it must 
be completely avoided. That’s not the right strategy, however. 
Surely, a decrease in the use of social media will decrease the frequency of FOMO, but it will not fully eradicate it. We will always be confronted with the realization that we missed out on something, whether it’s through social media or conversa-
tion. So, the most effective way to handle FOMO is not to avoid 
it but to confront it.
Look at the way of thinking that leads to FOMO. Why do 
we expect ourselves to be everywhere at the same time, even 
when we know we can’t? Is it because we don’t want to be left 
out in conversations or timelines? Do we want to come off as informed in order to have a higher social status? Either way, let’s change the thought pattern that leads to FOMO by thinking of missing out as an opportunity instead of a detriment. Missing 
out allows us to fully enjoy whatever we choose to do instead. 
We might not be able to contribute to every trending hashtag or talk about yesterday’s most popular yaks, but we’ll have better naps and more stimulating conversations over coffee. We will 
devote our undivided attention to whatever is at hand, and our 
lives will be richer.
With the increasing use of social media, FOMO is only go-
ing to increase in prevalence. However, you can prevent it and still indulge in social media by changing your way of thinking. 
Enjoy your life and indulge in pop culture, but if you miss out 
on something, try to look at it as a reminder that you’re a busy human fully enjoying whatever is in front of you. When you make the decision to start thinking of missing out as an oppor-
tunity instead of an issue, you’ll feel empowered, autonomous 
and rebellious. And isn’t that what we young people love, to be rebellious?
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His col-
umn usually appears on Wednesdays. Change how you FOMOColumn
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.org"... the American dream should 
not be twisted by false standards 
into an unspoken rule that to ask 
for help from others is to show 
weakness."
“The most efective way to 
handle FOMO is not to avoid it 
but to confront it.”
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Whose Line Is It Anyway?
Devin Lee, a 22-year-old advertising senior, performs improv with 18-year-old English freshman Mi-
chele Kuhn and 18-year-old exploratory freshman Will Christou during an introduction to improv class at Theatre Strike Force’s 12 Hours of Improv event on Monday.
SHE WILL BE A  
COORDINATOR FOR THE 
STATE PROGRAM.
By Kristine Janata
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Master Gardener 
Program will welcome a new 
statewide coordinator this April.
Wendy Wilber, a UF Institute 
of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension Alachua County agent, will start her new position as state-
wide coordinator April 10. The 
Florida Master Gardener Program is a volunteer-driven program that focuses on gardening and giving back to the community.
As a UF/IFAS Extension Ala-
chua County agent, Wilber writes a Q&A column for the Gainesville Sun and teaches Florida-Friend-ly Landscaping and sustainable 
home food production. She will 
receive $74,599 a year in her new position, where she said she will focus more on volunteer develop-
ment.
“I think that our program is re-
ally good, but I would really like 
to see it go to the next level, and I 
have some fresh ideas that I think 
we could implement,” Wilber said.
Wilber said she wants to pro-
mote the UF/IFAS Master Garden-er Program to highlight what the program does for the community.
“I think that our population in 
Florida is quite large … and that the people that live here often don’t understand how their land-
scaping choices can affect our en-
vironment,” Wilber said.
She said the master gardeners 
can help educate people about gar-dening and landscaping to make 
Florida more beautiful and protect 
the state’s natural resources.
Michael Dukes, a professor in 
the UF/IFAS Department of Agri-
cultural and Biological Engineer-
ing, announced Wilber’s appoint-ment to the position.
Dukes said Wilber is experi-
enced with the program and will 
help the program branch out in 
new directions.
“She’s seen a lot of history, and 
she has lots of ideas for the future 
of the program,” he said.IFAS agent joins Master Gardeners  CAMPUS
By Asia Emory
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Pride Student Union sees 
the Pride Awareness Month Fash-
ion Show models as more than mannequins.
PSU is hosting the annual PAM 
Fashion Show at 7:30 p.m. Thurs-day in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-room, and second-time fashion show director Kevin Huynh said it will be a platform for individuality.
“It is very easy to blend in, but 
we want to give props to people who want to stand out,” said Huynh, a UF public relations se-
nior.
The casting calls discovered 
models of all shapes, sizes, orien-
tations and cultures, Huynh, 23, said. This year’s theme is War-riors.
There are nine designers, in-
cluding five locals and four from around the country. This is PAM’s 
largest fashion show to date, 
Huynh said.
Clovis Marrett, one of PAM’s 
stylists and designers, said the or-ganization wanted to bring people of all sexual orientations together.
“We want to be able to discuss 
everyday issues through the cloth-ing and through the minds of our designs,” Marrett, 25, said.
Pride Awareness Month began 
March 16 and ends April 20. Most 
of the events, from the speakers to 
the fashion show, are free.
“Gainesville really has creative 
fashionable people, and the best way to nurture talent is to not charge,” Huynh said.
Diamond Delancy, a UF public 
relations junior, said the fashion show is one of PAM’s big mo-
ments.
“I think the fashion show repre-
sents the community because it is 
all about celebrating our identity, and clothing is an enormous way that people express their identity,” Delancy, 20, said.
Marrett said PAM is not about 
sexuality — it’s about being a hu-
man being.
“Love yourself; respect yourself 
and others who aren’t as open to 
it,” Marrett said. “It is never too late to explore and be taught some-thing new.”Warrior models to 
command runway at PAM fashion show
Upcoming PAM events include:
Who am I? Mapping Identities of The Gator 
Nation:  Students can anonymously place their 
identities on a board on Turlington Plaza to visually admire UF’s diversity — T oday, 11 a.m.
Transvisible Film:  A documentary on the life of 
renowned trans Latina activist and leader Bamby 
Salcedo at La Casita — T oday, 7 p.m.
T ake Back the Night March:  A night march and 
rally to end sexual violence on Norman Field — 
Wednesday, 6 p.m.
Queer Prom:  Ustler Hall — Monday, 8 p.m.“People that live here often 
don’t understand how their 
landscaping choices can affect 
our environment.”
Wendy Wilber
coordinator- elect, 
Master Gardener ProgramTUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
The Associated Press
A police officer directs a vehicle to turn away at the National Security Agency on Monday in Fort 
Meade, Maryland. Earlier, a firefight erupted when two men dressed as women tried to ram a car into a gate, killing one of the men and wounding the other, officials said.
A UF CLUB IS HOSTING A 
FRIENDSHIP WALK.
By Graham Hall and Caitlin 
Ostroff
Alligator Writers
In light of Autism Awareness 
Month, Gainesville libraries are 
launching new programs geared to-ward children with autism.
The Alachua County Library Dis-
trict plans to unveil Sensory Story-time for children with sensory inte-gration challenges.
Erin Phemester, youth services 
senior manager at the Alachua County Library District, wrote in an email the new storytime program hopes to involve all children, particularly 
those with autism. The 
first program starts April 19 at the Head-quarters Library, at 401 E. University Ave. Reg-istration for the first storytime starts Wednesday.
During the storytime, the chil-
dren will listen to stories and songs 
and play with lap-dogs.
“This is an opportunity to high-
light the growing need for concern and awareness about autism, the 
fastest-growing serious developmen-tal disability in the U.S.,” Phemester said.
The Library District partnered 
with UF to learn more about how autism affects children and reading.
Phemester said the library’s staff 
has been working with UF and its 
Center for Autism and Related Dis-
abilities to learn the best methods for working with children with autism.
Ann-Marie Orlando, coordinator 
for education and training programs at the UF Center for Autism and Re-
lated Disabilities, wrote in an email 
that autistic children start showing signs before the age of 3.
“We find that if we can create an 
environment where sensory stimuli is not so overwhelming, sometimes 
we can help to decrease anxiety and 
increase the ability to participate in activities with peers,” she said.
•   •   •
UF’s Best Buddies chapter is also 
helping those with disabilities this month by hosting its first Friend-ship Walk on April 12 from 8 a.m. to noon on Flavet Field.
Best Buddies is an organization 
that pairs community members with individuals with intellectual and de-velopmental disabilities to build one-to-one friendships.
The UF chapter is starting its 
own walk because the central Florida walk is during graduation 
weekend, said Vanina 
Zack, the Friendship Walk coordinator and a UF communication sci-
ences and disorders senior.
Money raised will go toward fund-
ing existing chapters and creating new ones, especially in Gainesville high schools, Zack, 22, said.
“I think it would be great for 
buddies in high school to have the buddy relationships and feel more 
part of the high school experience,” 
she said.
Student organizations such as Phi 
Sigma Pi and the Student Occupa-tional Therapy Association will also fundraise and participate, Zack said.
The buddies look forward to the 
walks, too. Josh Lassiter, a 41-year-old buddy, is looking forward to go-
ing to the walk with Raina Weism-
antel, a 22-year-old UF elementary special education senior.
Lassiter said he joined the best 
buddy program as a teenager and has been with it ever since.
“I love the Gators, and I love the 
Best Buddies,” Lassiter said.Groups hosting local 
events to help GNV residents with autismBy The Associated Press
FORT MEADE, Md. — Two 
men dressed as women smashed 
a stolen car into a police vehicle after they disobeyed commands at the closely guarded gates of 
the National Security 
Agency on Monday, prompting police to open fire.
One of the men 
died, the other was injured and a police officer also was taken to a hospital.
Initial images from 
the scene showed emergency workers loading the uniformed officer into an ambu-lance. 
Nearby were a dark-colored 
SUV and an SUV emblazoned with “NSA Police,” both heavily dam-aged.
It was not known why the 
men wound up at the gate at Fort Meade, a sprawling military post 
that houses the National Secu-
rity Agency, or why they did not obey orders from NSA police. Fort 
Meade is just off Interstate 295 be-tween Baltimore and Washington.
The men were 
dressed as women, 
said a senior de-
fense official who spoke on condition of anonymity be-cause the official 
was not authorized to discuss an ongoing case.
The NSA said in a news release 
that investigators have not yet de-
termined how the man in the ve-
hicle died, and the conditions of the wounded man and officer were not disclosed.
An agency officer gave the 
driver “routine instructions for safely exiting the secure campus,” 
but the driver disobeyed them, the 
release said. The driver then ac-celerated toward a police vehicle blocking the road, and police then opened fire.
An FBI spokeswoman said ear-
lier in the day that the incident was not believed to be linked to terror-ism.
The car that rammed the po-
lice vehicle had been stolen Mon-day morning from a hotel in Jes-sup, Maryland, said Mary Phelan, a spokeswoman for the Howard County Police Department.
The FBI is investigating and 
working with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Maryland to determine if 
federal charges are warranted, FBI 
spokeswoman Amy J. Thoreson wrote in an email.
Men crash stolen car into NSA HQ
LOCALNATIONAL
NEWSTUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors
$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSEBike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
Charming house two bedrooms one bath screened porch large fenced yard central heat/air,washer/dryer 1123 NW 31st Ave Lease $750 dog deposit call 352 475 1586 /352 213 1963    4-3-15-5-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    4-1-15-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Lane sofa recliner L-shaped with chaise. 
Chocolate, perfect top-end furniture. Great size for apt. $600 obo. 352-463-6609    4-2-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 3 Subleases 6 FurnishingsTUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of 
Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14
Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl basic English and math to help her trans-fer to the US education system. Experience with children and reference required. ~20hr/wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    4-2-15-8-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
Experienced greenhouse person wanted.All phases to ready plant for garden.Full time; no smokers, drug free.Send resume to catcrone@aol.com.    3-31-3-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
Help Wanted: small lawn and garden.Two times each month.
call 352-384-3998     4-3-5-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/30 - 4/3 from 5-7 p.m. each day.   Verbal sessions are M & T; Math sessions are W & R.  Go to the teachingcenter.ufl.edu and click “Study Skills” and “Workshops” to register and learn the location.      3-31-6-20
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsTUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsBy Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Jim McElwain is the type 
of coach who wants to see his 
players give 100 percent each 
time they go out on the football field.
It doesn’t matter if it’s on the 
practice field or during a game. 
He wants his guys to give it 
their all.
And on Monday, McElwain 
was as animated as ever when discussing the Spring practice session.
In short, it wasn’t good, 
especially coming off a scrim-mage on Saturday where McEl-wain said the team excelled.
“I’m not sure that we got 
better today,” McElwain said. 
“I think today was the first day 
that we probably took a step back.”
It wasn’t a single position 
that received the brunt of McEl-
wain’s rant. It was the entire 
team’s effort during practice that really got McElwain going.  The players on the team 
might’ve gotten complacent af-ter scrimmaging on Saturday, McElwain said. 
He tries to get the best out 
of his players, but seeing them lack a prepared mentality set him off.
“The attention to detail and 
focus was not what we needed 
to be successful,” McElwain 
said. “And it bothered me. That irritates me when we take a step back. … Our mindset was 
not to get better today. It was to 
endure the practice.
“It really bothered me. 
That’s unacceptable. You don’t do that and play championship 
football.”
McElwain is looking to 
change a team that has been 
stuck in mediocrity the past two seasons.
The standards at the Uni-
versity of Florida are high, and after not competing for a South-eastern Conference title and a national title the last two years, it’s important for McElwain and the players to get on the same 
page. 
McElwain said that most 
of the players didn’t have the 
“want” and the “need” to get 
better in practice on Monday.   
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Treon Harris (3) drops back to pass while being pressured by linebacker Jeremi Powell (28) 
during practice on Monday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Florida football head coach Jim McElwain said the Gators took a step back at practice Monday, noting a lack of attention to detail.
McElwain frustrated at lack of commitment at practice
UF regressed Monday
“You don't do that and 
play championship 
football.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
SEE PRACTICE,  PAGE 15
BASEBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
Florida’s Danny Young, racing after a ball 
bouncing down the first base line, didn’t in-
tend to collide with FSU’s D.J. Stewart.
A few words were exchanged, a few 
shoves were dealt, and a few seconds later 
both dugouts were empty.
Almost a year ago, Florida’s 4-1 victory 
over FSU at neutral-site Jacksonville nearly escalated into a full-scale brawl.
Each season, the hostility between the 
two teams is palpable. It manages to seep 
into every meeting, even as records change 
and new players arrive.
“Oh man. Well, the first game was fun,” 
said freshman Jeremy Vasquez, whose Gators defeated the Seminoles 14-8 in their 
first meeting on March 17. “The crowd, the 
fans there — you could just feel the rivalry.”
“I mean, I saw what happened last year. 
… It’s just crazy.”
No. 4 Florida (23-6) will look to earn its 
sixth straight win against No. 10 FSU (22-7) when the two teams meet at 6 p.m. in 
Jacksonville.
Florida enters the game with uncertainty 
surrounding its pitching staff. In last Fri-
day’s doubleheader against Alabama, starter Aaron Rhodes was solid in Game 1, allowing one run in three innings. In Game 2, Logan Shore pitched all nine innings in arguably the best game of his career.
However, UF’s relief pitchers were re-
sponsible for 11 of the 17 runs scored in the Florida expecting physical 
play from Florida State By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
At 5-foot-3, Bridgette Caquatto doesn’t 
stand out among her fellow UF gymnasts 
when they all crowd around to watch a teammates’ routine. 
They all jump, yell and cheer their loud-
est during each routine on any given Friday night. Caquatto jumps, yells and cheers just like they do. 
Her hair is a typical 
light brown. Depending on the lighting, three to four of her Gator teammates share the same color.
She is quiet and soft-spoken, humble 
and unassuming. She would much rather talk about her team than herself.There’s no over-the-top personality.There’s no signature event.
There’s no wow-factor.
Caquatto fades into the background 
without a second thought. And often, no 
one gives her a second thought because of it.
But that would be a mistake.While stars like Bridget Sloan and Kytra 
Hunter get most of the at-tention from fans and me-dia, Caquatto has become one of Florida’s most reli-able contributors. 
Although she has never scored a perfect 
10, the junior can almost always be counted on for a consistently good routine. 
This year, she has scored at least a 9.875 Junior becoming silent 
leader for Gators gymnastics
GYMNASTICS
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
Follow us on Twitter
For updates from today's Florida-
Florida State baseball game, follow Ian Cohen @icohenbRandy Shannon is working with a linebacker corps that is limited in its numbers. Read the story on page 14.No more student ticket lottery
The UAA will not hold a student season ticket lottery for the 2015 football 
season, UF announced via email. Tickets for the seven games, valued at $105, will be sold on a first-come, first-sold basis. Last year's season-ticket holders will be able to buy tickets on April 13. Everyone else can buy tickets on July 27.14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015SHANNON PREVIOUSL Y 
COACHED THE MIAMI 
HURRICANES
By Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
 
New co-defensive coordina-
tor and linebackers coach Randy Shannon knew Florida did not have its best practice on Monday.
“We had a lot of penalties, 
things guys weren’t sharp or crisp 
like we want them to be,” Shan-
non said. “Coming off a scrim-mage you always want things to 
keep going and keep step ahead. 
We’ve got to rebound from it (and) come back Wednesday.”
While Shannon does oversee 
the defense as a whole, he will work hands-on with a linebacker 
corps that is lacking quality depth 
this Spring.
Mike Taylor and Neiron Ball, 
two of last season’s starters, are no longer with the team as they pursue the NFL. The other starter, 
Antonio Morrison, is still rehab-
bing from a knee injury. 
However, Shannon isn’t going 
to use that as an excuse to not produce on the field. 
With any coaching transition 
in college football, coaches have to work with the hand they’re 
dealt — in this case, the roster 
former coach Will Muschamp left behind.
“Being in the NFL makes you 
understand, in college you can’t trade for nobody,” Shannon said. 
“You can’t place nobody on the 
waiver wire so whoever you got you got to coach ‘em up and you’ve got to have fun with them, so right now that’s all you can 
do.”
The lack of depth gives less 
experienced guys a chance to get a lot of reps throughout spring. 
Two that have stepped up are ju-niors Alex Anzalone and Daniel 
McMillian. Shannon adds that the 
similarities in defensive schemes from last year to this one helps 
the younger guys pick things up 
more easily.
“It gets (you) a lot of reps in 
practice, all players or anybody in society itself, the more you can keep 
doing something 
over and over even-tually you will get 
better,” Shannon 
said. “A lot of those guys didn’t play last year so this is an oppor-
tunity to get a lot of reps.”
Shannon’s coaching resume is 
nothing short of exceptional, hav-ing coached in the glory days of 
the 1990s and early 2000s at the University of Miami, winning two 
National Championships along 
the way, as well as spending three seasons with the Miami Dolphins. 
He has coached future and cur-
rent NFL Hall of Famers including Ray Lewis, Jonathan Vilma, Ed 
Reed, Warren Sapp and countless 
others. Anzalone mentioned how valuable having a seasoned coach 
like Shannon is, and added that 
watching film of some of the all time greats is a pretty humbling 
experience.
“The other day we pulled out 
film from 2000, watching Jona-than Vilma from Miami,” Anza-
lone said Wednesday. “I think it’s pretty cool. There’s a lot to learn from him. …  You get to 
see how they were in college and 
specifically, schematically what they were doing and how they 
played.”
Shannon said putting on cut-
ups from some of his former play-ers is more to help them realize 
that what you do on the practice field directly translates to what 
you’re able to do on game days.
“When you bring out old tape, 
it brings out somebody that they may know and makes the drill, 
more than anything 
that I’m teaching,” 
Shannon said. “And 
they can see a guy who’s actually per-
forming the drill. 
Now take it to the field and then 
they’re like, ‘Wow, this drill really 
does work’. “ Shannon said.
Shannon also mentioned Lew-
is in discussing whether or not he identifies linebackers at specific 
linebacker spots when he’s coach-ing them. 
Instead of matching a player’s 
skillset with a certain defensive scheme, Shannon teaches kids 
concepts so that they have the 
ability to play any position. He re-calls making a mistake with Lewis 
while he was still a young coach.
“When (Lewis) arrived at the 
University of Miami and we put him at outside linebacker, he 
wasn’t any good,” Shannon said. “And about three days later some-
body got nicked up at middle line-
backer position, and we had a lot of guys at outside. Just put him 
inside, all of a sudden, he was a 
big time middle linebacker.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Co-defensive coordinator and linebackers coach Randy Shannon instructs linebacker Daniel 
McMillian during practice on Monday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Senior Eric Banks putts during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Randy Shannon making the most 
of limited linebackers group
FOOTBALLBy Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
 
With only one tournament left 
in the regular season, UF men’s golf coach JC Deacon is not worrying about the results.
Instead, the first-year head coach is 
focused on solidifying his postseason lineup.
The Gators are coming off of a 12th 
place finish in the Chris Schenkel In-vitational in Statesboro, Georgia, that was shortened due to the final day be-ing rained out.
To make up for the lost round, the 
team will play in a one-day, head-to-head match against UNF on Friday before heading to West Point, Missis-sippi, to compete in the Old Waverly Collegiate Championship on Monday. 
“We’ve had a little bit of time off 
to get going and recharge our batter-ies, so I expect a great effort out of all of them,” Deacon said. “I think we’ve 
just got to get more reps under our belt 
and keep playing hard, and really es-tablish the five guys who are going to be there at (Southeastern Conference Championships) and the postseason.”
During the off week since the 
Schenkel Invitational, Deacon said senior Eric Banks has stepped up and earned his spot in the lineup.
Banks has played in six tourna-
ments this season for the Gators, with his best finish coming at the Sea Best Invitational in February when he shot 6-over-par for a share of fifth place.
Deacon said this was the first time 
Banks has stepped up in a qualifying round against his teammates.
“He earned his spot this week for 
the first time this year,” Deacon said. “He shot 72-68 this weekend and beat the guys pretty good, so he won that spot.
“The two of 
us have had some great conversations about course man-
agement and man-aging his game, and kind of the ma-turity that he needs to take his game to the next level,” 
Deacon said. “We saw it the last two rounds at the Schenkel tournament, then he came home and really domi-nated the qualifying this week.”
While the Gators are making sure 
not to look past the Old Waverly Col-legiate Championship, the team’s fo-cus is on the postseason. 
“The postseason is what it’s all 
about,” Deacon said. “You know the guys on the PGA tour, they prepare for the Majors, and the postseason, SECs, Regionals, and Nationals for us — that’s our Majors.” 
“They happen in succession but 
that’s what you build up for all year. … We have two seniors that this is it for them. So if you can’t get fired up 
right now, nothing will be able to get 
you going.”UF men’s golf solidifying 
postseason lineup
Deacon
TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
in 23 of 31 tries.
And lost in the shuffle of Sloan’s 
perfect 10 and Florida’s beam de-
bacle during the Southeastern Conference Championships was Caquatto’s performance — two 9.95s on bars and floor, arguably her best meet of the year.
Yet, few seem to have noticed. 
That’s fine with Caquatto, though.
“I’ve heard from a couple peo-
ple before that (I’m) always kind of under the radar, but I think that’s a good spot to be in,” she said. “I feel like people can always count on you in that spot and you’re kind of behind the scenes, working hard in order to help the team.”
While some athletes feed off of 
what other people say about them, Caquatto’s motivation is internal and doesn’t need outside attention, whether it be good or bad.
“I’m not really all about the 
media being all about me or any-thing,” she said. “I like to just keep to myself a little bit and do good for the satisfaction of myself, knowing that I worked hard.
“I don’t really need the accep-
tance of thousands of people to make me motivated and want to work hard.”
When she first arrived at Flori-
da, she had even less of an identity to outsiders than she does now. She entered her freshman season recovering from surgery for a torn rotator cuff and didn’t compete un-til midway through the year — and only a handful of times, at that.
“My freshman year I was — I 
don’t wanna say a nobody, but I didn’t do anything my freshman 
year,” she said.
Her sister, Mackenzie Caquatto, 
was also in the midst of becoming 
one of the Gators’ top gymnasts, so 
the only recognition the younger 
Caquatto got was when she was re-
ferred to as “Macko’s little sister.”
She retained that title through 
her sophomore year — Macken-
zie’s senior season — but she be-
gan to develop into a decent gym-
nast while gaining confidence in 
her abilities.
She competed in every vault, 
bars and floor lineup that year and 
clinched a share of the national 
title for Florida in the final routine 
with a 9.95 on floor.
Now in her third season, she 
knows how good she can be and 
wants to be able to fill the void 
left by her sister and other top per-
formers who graduated from a year 
ago. 
It isn’t from a desire to make a 
name for herself.
It isn’t from a desire to get out 
of her from under her sister’s shad-ow.
She just wants to give her best, 
and she wants it badly.
Don’t let her smile and bubbly 
personality fool you.
She might not be as vocal as 
Sloan or as intense as Hunter, but she cares just as much.Outsiders might not realize it, 
but her teammates know what she 
gives to the team.
“Having her as the backbone, 
just keeping the team up and mo-
tivated and getting high scores has 
definitely meant a lot to all of us,” Hunter said. And for this season, the best is 
likely still on the horizon.
Caquatto has had her best per-
formances on podium in the SECs and NCAAs throughout her career, 
and her performance two weeks 
ago only backs that up.
Because of what it means to her team, it’s the only time of the year when she doesn’t mind being no-ticed.
“I like being under (the radar) 
the entire time and then when I get 
to the postseason I like to make an 
entrance and kind of show every-body what I’m all about,” she said.
GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 13Caquatto anchors floor lineup, secured UF's 2014 national title
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF junior Bridgette Caquatto performs her floor exercise routine during the 2015 Southeastern Conference Championships on March 21 in Duluth, Georgia.
“When you invest in yourself, we all make a choice 
how we’re going to approach that rep, how we’re going 
to approach that day, how we’re going to approach that practice, that meeting…It’s all choice and a decision,” McElwain said.
“And today a lot of guys   — and I’m not saying ev-
erybody  — a lot of them came out with a choice and a 
decision not to get anything done, not to focus, and to 
endure rather to drain the tank and get better. That was irritating. It’s not acceptable. That’s the bottom line.”
It was the first time that McElwain got after his play-
ers in the post-practice media session. Previously, he was quick to point out the positives of what he saw during the day.
Granted, it might be hard to get 18-to-22-year-olds 
motivated to practice three days a week. But McElwain doesn’t see that as an excuse, and directs some of the blame at himself.
“I take it that I didn’t get them ready today com-
ing out of the team meeting, to practice with the in-tensity and focus we needed," McElwain said. "There shouldn’t be that excuse.”
McElwain will be looking to see how the team re-
sponds in practice Wednesday, as there are only a handful of Spring practices and scrimmages remaining before the Orange & Blue debut game on April 11.  
“We need to come back and have a better day on 
Wednesday,” McElwain said. “We’ll learn from the film tomorrow and we’ll go up and get it graded and put the proper things in place and then show it to them. That’s all you can do at that point.” PRACTICE,  from pg. 13McElwain: 'It's not 
acceptable. That's 
the bottom line.'series, and have frequently given up big 
innings in close contests.
The good news for Florida’s pitchers 
has been the consistency of the offense. UF is second in the Southeastern Confer-
ence in slugging percentage (.468), third 
in runs scored (210) and tied for third in home runs (25).
Harrison Bader leads the SEC in slug-
ging percentage (.733), home runs (8), and is tied for first in RBI (33).
The Gators have at least one player 
in the top-10 in the conference of nearly every major offensive category, includ-
ing on base percentage, hits and runs 
scored.
“(The pitchers) should feel like they 
don’t have to do so much," coach Kevin O'Sullivan said. "Last year was a totally different year it seemed like. We played a lot of low scoring games. A lot of stuff fell on the pitching staff last year. It’s dif-ferent this year, and actually it should be 
easier for them. We’re gonna score more 
runs. So they should feel good about the offense and not feel like they’ve got to carry the load.”
But during the times in which Flori-
da’s offense isn’t clicking, like late in last Friday’s 12-9 extra-inning loss to Ala-bama, its players expressed the need for a consistent bullpen.
“We just had a couple letdowns,” Dal-
ton Guthrie said after UF allowed seven seventh-inning runs in the loss. “We just got to stop the bleeding. Defensively and pitching, we should’ve done something. Somebody needs to make plays, some-body needs to make a pitch. It’s just, we have to prevent the big inning, and hopefully we’ll fix that by tomorrow.”
Right-hander Alex Faedo (1-0) will 
get the nod on the mound tonight, and the Gators will likely have senior Bobby Poyner available as the left-hander re-covers from a hamstring injury.
The Gators are also waiting on the re-
turn of power-hitter Peter Alonso, who is expected to make his debut sometime this week after breaking his foot before the season opener. 
The added offense Alonso will pro-
vide to the lineup is expected to further help UF’s bullpen.
“It’s my job to figure out the roles and 
where we go from here,” O’Sullivan said of his pitching staff on Friday. “We got enough talent. There’s no question we 
have enough talent. We’re just not pitch-
ing very well right now. But it’s a long season.”
BASEBALL,  from pg. 13UF 's offense surging, pitching inconsistent
Florida’s last five games against Florida State
March 17:  With Florida State holding on to an 8-7 lead heading to 
the bottom of the fifth inning, Florida scored seven unanswered runs to 
take the 14-8 win at McKethan Stadium.
April 8, 2014:  Florida won the contest in T allahassee 8-0 behind a 
four-hit shutout from its pitching staff and a four-RBI outing from leadoff batter Casey Turgeon, who belted a three-run homer to right field in the fifth inning. 
March 25, 2014:  The Gators held the Seminoles scoreless until the 
ninth until third baseman Jose Brizuela hit a solo home run. UF’s pitching staff struck out eight while holding FSU to a .182 batting average in the 4-1 victory. in Jacksonville.
March 18, 2014:  UF took the early 1-0 lead off a Josh T obias third-
inning home run. FSU tied the game in the sixth, but the Gators added the final two runs in the bottom half of the frame on a Harrison Bader RBI triple and a T aylor Gushue sac fly to win 3-1.
April 9, 2013:  With the game tied 3-3 in the top of the ninth and 
Harrison Bader on third, Josh T obias cranked a sac fly to right field to 
score Bader and give UF the 4-3 win in T allahassee.16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 2015
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
 
After Florida dropped the doubles point 
against Auburn on Saturday, the Gators could have admitted defeat.
They had already done so at multiple 
points this season, with all but one of their six losses coming when they lost the early point.
“We had a lot of opportunities 
in doubles and fell a point shy of winning the doubles point,” coach Bryan Shelton said Monday about the Auburn game. “We just weren’t able to capitalize and get the job 
done.”
But after the Tigers clinched the ﬁ  rst point 
of the game on Saturday, Shelton could tell  
his team wasn’t going to let it determine their destiny for the rest of the match.
The Gators went on to win four singles 
matches in straight sets to take the 4-1 victory.
“You could see the energy in the guys as 
they spoke in the ﬁ  ve minutes before singles started,” Shelton said. “They took an active role in that meeting and didn’t just sit back and listen to what coach had to say. I could tell they were engaged, they were hungry and 
they were really wanting to pull together and 
you could feel it.”
Even though there are only four matches 
left in the 2014-2015 season, Shelton said he is glad he is still seeing progress out of the Gators.
“It’s one thing to talk about those things 
and another thing to go out there and have 
the fortitude to go out there and 
do it,” Shelton said.
And Diego Hidalgo did just 
what his coach asked of him. 
Shelton described Hidalgo as 
the match who lit the ﬁ  re on Sat-
urday, leading by example for the rest of the team.
“He did a lot of things we’ve 
been talking about,” Shelton said. “As the 
singles got started you could feel his energy 
out there. He was yelling down three courts to (Jordan) Belga and to Josh (Wardell) and everybody else. You could just feel it. He was playing with a lot of passion, a lot of energy and he was leading.”
The junior worked his way to the No. 1 
spot earlier this year and has earned a point in three of his ﬁ  ve completed singles matches in the Southeastern Conference for the Gators.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Junior Diego Hidalgo prepares to return a ball during Florida’s 4-1 win against 
Mississippi State on March 13 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
LACROSSE
Men’s tennis team showcased resiliency against AuburnBy Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
Some people like change. 
Some embrace it, quickly adapting to the new circum-
stances and making the most of the hand they’ve been dealt. 
Florida lacrosse ﬁ  ts that category. The team has hit the 
ground running in its ﬁ  rst year as a part of its new confer-
ence.
The Gators have stormed into the Big East this season 
after playing in the American Lacrosse Conference for the 
program’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve years. 
The No. 9 Gators are now 2-0 in Big East play early in the 
conference schedule. 
They have outscored their two conference opponents, Vanderbilt and Temple, by a combined score of 36-13 and have ﬂ  ashed their po-
tential dominance of the conference in 
both victories.
Senior Shannon Gilroy leads the Big 
East and is second in the country in both goals (43) and points (57), and the Gators also lead the conference with 182 goals.
The beginning of conference play also 
marked a bright spot in Florida’s season 
in that it ended the three-game losing streak the Gators had 
suffered prior to their Big East opener against Vanderbilt. 
“It’s certainly nice to make that kind of turnaround. We 
needed to do that,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “We are in 
that new conference, so each and every game is a new expe-rience for us because ultimately we haven’t played a lot of those teams, other than Vanderbilt, in a long time or ever.”
The Gators have certainly made their presence felt in their 
new conference. 
Florida was the preseason pick to win the Big East and is 
still the favorite to do so. 
Gilroy along with Caroline Fitzgerald, Nora Barry and 
Sammi Burgess were also named to the preseason All-Big East First Team. The number of all-conference players could increase if the Gators maintain the high level at which they have played as of late.
“We’ve seen a lot of leadership out of our junior and se-
nior class, kind of in the hopes of turning around those losses and going forward in the rest of the season with conference play,” O’Leary said. “Really, just pleased with the efforts of our upperclassmen to take reins of those losses and make sure that we’re better prepared for these conference games.”Gators starting Big East conference play on a high note
MEN’S 
TENNISO’Leary
