VOLUME 109 ISSUE 80 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Slavic ﬁ  lm screened at Smathers library
The ﬁ  lm features Romanian poets discussing 
life under Communist rule, pg. 5. Fla. experiences moderate ﬂ  u spread, shots still available
Student Health Care Center offers shots for free, pg 5.  
Local shooting range now hosts ladies’ nights
The Micanopy range has discounts on Wednesdays, pg 8. 
January Miller  
and the UF women’s 
basketball team are 
looking for their 
identity heading into 
Kentucky. Read the 
story on Page 16.
65/45
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Poster party
Manuel Estopinan, a 21-year-old UF political science junior, browses through posters on sale on the Reitz Union breezeway Tuesday afternoon. “I got a new room,” Estopinan said. “I’m trying to ﬁ  ll it up with something eye-catching.”
CAMPUS
LAUREN MALONEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF George A. Smathers Libraries 
received a $500,000 grant that will ensure 
continual advancement in Judaic studies.
The library was awarded with the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities Challenge Grant, which will match $1 for every $3 raised, according to a university 
press release.
The grant will increase resources for 
scholarship on the Jewish experience and Jewish history in Latin America, the Carib-
bean and Florida, said Rebecca Jefferson, head of the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica.
“To date, there has not been a proper 
history of the Jews of Florida written,” Jefferson said. “Because this material has been hidden before, it will really transform scholarship.” 
Jefferson and her library colleagues will 
make the documents available to UF schol-ars, as well as to others around the world. These documents will include details not only about Jewish culture but about other ethnic cultures in the region. 
Danny Speagle, a Santa Fe College com-
puter science student, enjoys his work as a volunteer in the Judaica pocket of Smathers Library.Speagle said when visitors see the ex-
pansive collection for the ﬁ  rst time, their expressions are unmatched.
“There are books in here from the 1500s, 
and that is astonishing even to me,” Spea-gle, 49, said. 
Jefferson said Jewish communities in 
Latin America and the Caribbean have pa-pers, documents and books with details on 
the Jewish experience in Florida that are 
typically unreachable.
“Our goal is to make them accessible,” 
Jefferson said.  Grant awarded to UF libraries for Jewish studies
“Because this material has 
been hidden before, it will really 
transform scholarship.” 
Rebeccas Jefferson
head of the Isser and Rae Price Library of 
Judaica
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
The recent suicide of a Santa Fe student has cast 
light on the need for mental wellness resources in 
Gainesville. 
UF’s U Matter, We Care program helped stu-
dents ﬁ  nd the proper resources and support last 
year. Located on the second ﬂ  oor of Peabody Hall 
in the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce, the program uses a social work approach to guide distressed students to resources that would help them, said Jen Day Shaw, associate vice president and dean of students at UF.
“We get tons of referrals from faculty members 
because students miss a couple of classes in a row, or they write something in class that talks about be-ing depressed,” Day Shaw said. She said students 
worried about a friend or classmate can report to U 
Matter, We Care and have a professional reach out to them.
The Partners in Adolescent Lifestyle Support pro-
gram overseen by the UF Health Shands Psychiatric After local sui-
cide, rememberwellness services
 THE PREVIOUS DEAN LEFT FOR HER ALMA 
MATER.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
There is a new face at the UF College of the Arts. 
Anthony Kolenic began working as the college’s new assis-
tant dean for research, technology and administrative affairs Jan. 5.
Kolenic, who previously served as associate director of Alli-
ance for the Arts at Research Universities — a2ru — was inter-viewed on campus and chosen from the ﬁ  nal three candidates.
The College of the Arts began looking for someone to ﬁ  ll the 
position at the beginning of the Fall semester after the past dean accepted a position at her alma mater, said Lucinda Lavelli, the dean of the college. 
“We were looking for a very special skills set that included 
an understanding and appreciation of the arts, the ability to support the faculty in their research and programs,” Lavelli said. “His portfolio for this position is very broad.”
One of Kolenic’s biggest draws was his work with a2ru, a 
partnership of 31 universities, including UF, working to sup-port interdisciplinary research, Lavelli said.
“It provided him an exceptional understanding of what’s 
going on in the arts and research universities of America,” she said.New College of the Arts dean looks to strengthen researchSEE WELLNESS, PAGE 4
SEE DEAN, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 80 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
70/41SUNNY
69/47SUNNY
62/36RAIN
58/41PARTLY 
CLOUDY
65/45
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Timucuan canoe. This 
event, held on Jan. 25 from 1 to 4 p.m., will also feature Native American dancing, educational activities, face 
painting and much more. 
Another FunDay, which will be held on Feb. 15 at the same time, will give visi-tors the opportunity to ex-plore the contributions the African-American commu-nity made to blues music. This event will also feature 
tours of the Tison Tool Barn 
and the Matheson House.
UF Peace Corps recruiter now 
available to campus audi-ences and the Gainesville CommunityThe UF International Center is pleased to announce 
Bobbi Stienmetz as the new 
UF Peace Corps campus-based recruiter. Her priority is to promote and strength-en Peace Corps recruitment at UF through outreach to students, faculty and the Gainesville community. Gainesville residents are 
also encouraged to contact 
Stienmetz and set up an appointment to talk about volunteer opportunities, which fall under these gen-eral areas: education, youth in development, health, community economic de-velopment, agriculture and 
environment. The Peace 
Corps office is located at the UF International Center in the Hub. Bobbi will be on campus Tuesday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and will hold office hours Tuesdays from 10 a.m. to noon, as well as by 
appointment. To contact 
Bobbi, please call 352-294-2267 or visit ufic.ufl.edu/RPCV.html.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your for-
eign language skills, make 
friends, establish new con-tacts, strengthen your re-sume and intern abroad: All of these opportunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on Feb. 4 on the WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Sustainability Hut volunteer 
information and training sessionsIntern leaders from the UF Office of Sustainability 
will be hosting a series of 
Sustainability Hut volunteer information and training ses-sions today at 10:40 and 11:45 a.m. as well as 12:50, 1:55 and 3 p.m. in Frazier Rogers Hall, room 0106.  The Sustainability Hut is an intern- and volun-teer-run mobile extension of 
the Office of Sustainability 
that aims to educate the UF community about a variety of sustainability topics through interactive games and activi-ties. If you’re an engaging, passionate student interested in becoming a volunteer with The Hut, please attend one of 
these short training sessions 
to learn more. If you have any questions or need additional information, e-mail sustain-abilityhut@gmail.com or visit tinyurl.com/sustainability-hut.
Free RecSports Fitness Event
Interested in exploring state-of-the-art fitness equipment such as TRX®, Power Plate® and Kinesis® and formats such as Mat Pilates, Inversion Yoga and Yin Yoga? UF RecSports is holding a free open house event promoting small group training. Register 
on RSConnect for a free 
30-minute demo on Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. More in-formation is available on recs-ports.ufl.edu.
Intramural Sports in Spring 2015
Intramural sports kick off in Spring 2015 with outdoor soc-
cer followed by 4-on-4 flag 
football and 5-on-5 basketball. Register for outdoor soccer by today and register for both flag football and basketball by Jan. 21. Other sports offered this semester include swim-ming, sand volleyball, tennis, dodgeball, a 2-person golf 
scramble and inner-tube water 
polo. Register on IMLeagues. Visit recsports.ufl.edu for the full schedule and more infor-mation.
Family FunDay at the Matheson 
History MuseumCelebrate more than 1,500 
years of Gainesville history 
with the installation of the Matheson’s new permanent exhibition entitled “Exploring Our Native Heritage,” which features a 1,500-year-old Plaza of the Americas from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. For additional 
information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History MuseumBecome a part of music his-tory. Learn how to become 
a better writer and hear mu-
sical masterpieces unfold around you with a lesson and presentation by the Dixie Desperados from 6 to 8 p.m. on Feb. 19. A similar event will be March 12 at the same time, featuring a lesson and presentation by Stan Lynch, 
the former drummer for Tom  
Petty and the Heartbreakers.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva    
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle @alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Singers on Turlington
From left: Ruben Jang, a 22-year-old UF fifth-year civil engineering student, plays guitar and sings along -
side Olivier Nsengiyumva, a 25-year-old UF chemistry graduate student, who was playing the cajon. Both 
are members of the Adventist Campus Ministry.
 IT CAN WEAKEN IT IN AS LITTLE AS TWO HOURS.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
A night out on the town 
might mean more than just a 
hangover the next morning.
According to a study con-
ducted by researchers at the University of Maryland in December, binge drinking 
has an immediate effect on the immune system, taking as 
little as two hours following peak intoxication to weaken 
it.
This can increase an indi-
vidual’s risk for illnesses such 
as the common cold, pneu-
monia and tuberculosis, said 
Natalie Kelso, a 27-year-old 
UF epidemiology doctoral 
student studying the inflam-
matory response of alcohol.
“Your immune system, in-
stead of just being a little ac-tivated, (is) going to become 
over-activated,” she said. 
“And it’s going to have to 
work a lot harder to combat 
the inflammation.”
In the study, 15 volunteers between the ages of 22 and 34 consumed enough alcohol, 
depending on their weight, to reach peak intoxication.
Before participants con-
sumed alcohol, researchers 
collected blood samples. Ad-
ditional samples were taken 20 minutes, two hours and 
five hours after volunteers 
drank, according to the study.
At the 20-minute mark, 
researches saw an increase in immune system activity, 
evidenced by an increase in white blood cells, according 
to the study. However, at the two- and five-hour marks, 
the researchers saw the white 
blood cell count dip below 
the level present when par-
ticipants were sober.
While there are studies 
showing the negative effects 
of binge drinking over time, Kelso said there are also ben-
efits to consuming small-to-moderate amounts of alcohol.
She compared small doses 
of alcohol consumption to getting a vaccination or exer-
cising.
“It’s sort of like priming 
your immune system,” Kelso 
said. “It’s good to work out 
your immune system so that 
it becomes better.”
Andre McFadden II, 22, 
agreed the decision to drink 
is up to each individual’s dis-cretion, but he said those who 
do drink should be account-
able for their actions.
“If you’re not responsible 
for it,” the geography senior 
said, “you’re going to suffer 
heavy consequences.”Study: Drinking has  
immediate effect on 
immune systems
RESEARCH
 HE USED A MACHINE HE DESIGNED.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
Jian Ge has explored the universe searching for 
other planets in the solar system since 2006.
In six years, the UF astronomy professor said he 
discovered 51 new planets, 38 brown dwarfs and 285 
binary star systems, which are two stars that share the same orbit.
He conducted his research in New Mexico with a 
machine he built called MARVELS, which stands for 
Multi-object APO Radial Velocity Exoplanet Large Area Survey.
Ge said he specifically wanted to study the forma-
tion of giant planets.
“We try to understand the giant planets’ forma-
tion and evolution,” he said.
Ge said he plans to lead another project in the 
future to gather a larger sample. He said he will 
hopefully be able to scan several hundred stars with improving technology, as opposed to the 60 he has been limited to studying during each exploration. 
He said his team needs to improve its data pro-
cessing for future observations.
“In order to find these giant planets, you need a 
big sample,” Ge said.
Natalie Foster, a UF astrophysics senior, said it’s 
vital to continue exploring and studying the uni-verse for other planets.
“It’s important,” said Foster, 21, “because we’re 
trying to find out where other life in the universe is.”UF professor discovers new planets“It’s sort of like 
priming your immune 
system. It’s good to work 
out your immune system 
so that it becomes 
better.”
Natalie Kelso
epidemiology doctoral student
“We try to understand the giant planets’ 
formation and evolution,”
Jian Ge
UF astronomy professorALEX HARRIS
Alligator Staff Writer aharris@alligator.org
Dani Hauser came home from 
Winter Break to a complete shock.
Over the break, a pipe burst in 
the upstairs bathroom of the Alpha 
Epsilon Phi sorority house, which, 
over the course of two weeks, 
flooded in five of the 22 bedrooms as water seeped through the floor to the living room below.
Hauser, a 21-year-old interior 
design senior, said she laughed then hysterically cried when she re-alized the last three and a half years of her projects, which she stored 
under her bed, were destroyed.
“It was all my hard work, gone,” 
she said.
All of her possessions were in 
garbage bags and there were fans 
and dehumidifiers everywhere, she said. Comforters and pillowcases were covered in mold.
Within 30 minutes of discover-
ing the gushing water, house mom Nancy Patee, who refused to com-ment, had a plumber on the scene, Hauser said.
A woman in the room next to 
Hauser left her laptop under her bed, which sustained irreparable damage. 
Damaged areas throughout the 
house had the floors rewaxed and the wallpaper, ceiling tiles and baseboards replaced.
The inhabitants of the room 
with the most water damage, Room 12, were relocated to air mattresses in the downstairs study room. 
All damage to personal be-
longings within rooms is covered by renter’s insurance because all members of the house sign a con-tract relieving the house of respon-sibility, Kenna said.
Hospital promotes tolerance, a positive self-image and leader-ship to high school students in Alachua County. Gainesville and Buchholz High Schools 
are only some of the schools 
that take part in the program.
“It’s pretty heartbreaking,” 
22-year-old Lizzie Lunior said. “Especially when you think about somebody taking their life at that age. Hope-
fully programs like this will 
really instill us with support and communication so people feel connected to the people around them.”The UF psychology and 
women’s studies senior works at the Alachua County Crisis 
Center answering phones for 
the crisis hotline, which she said is available to anyone in the community 24 hours a day.
“Anyone that needs to talk 
about anything going on in their life can call,” Lunior said.
The UF Counseling and 
Wellness Center also offers a 
24-hour phone service. 
“The important thing is that 
they reach somebody,” coun-
selor Linda Lewis said.
The center, which works 
with the U Matter, We Care program, screens people for suicidal thoughts when they come in for help, Lewis said. The center also offers walk-in emergency counseling at its 
Radio Road location and on 
the fourth floor of Peabody Hall at the Crisis and Emer-gency Resource Center.
“We’ve just gotten better 
and better at reaching out and getting students the help that they need,” Lewis said. 
The center also offers an on-
line program called Kognito, which teaches students what to do or say to a friend that may be depressed or suicidal. 
UF students worried about 
a classmate or friend can call 352-294-CARE or email umat-ter@ufl.edu for guidance.4, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Water streaks run down the rusted hood of a fireplace in the Alpha 
Epsilon Phi sorority house on West Panhellenic Drive.
He will also serve as faculty support, managing committees
DEAN , from page 1MENTAL , from page 1Students can call 294-care for  help
Kolenic said he is looking forward to 
strengthening the different types of research at 
the college, including how the arts can impact other fields, he said.
“The thing that separates disciplines is not 
what they study, it’s how they study,” Kolenic said. “On the arts side, we have methods that allow us to reckon with ourselves and identi-ties on the whole, as well as the world around us. It’s the same world; we’re looking at the same world, but we’re using different meth-
ods to ask different questions and find differ-
ent answers (than other fields).”
Kolenic’s job as assistant dean for research will be to support faculty with research and manage faculty program applications and in-ternal committees, Lavelli said.
“He is the support person for faculty, the 
way we have a support person for students,” 
she said.
Kolenic said he was drawn to UF’s interna-
tional reputation.“On top of that, the College of the Arts has 
a very strong profile in music, theatre, dance 
and art history, but it also has some great cut-ting-edge interdisciplinary centers,” he said. “The opportunity to help bring those bodies 
into their next stage and to work within the 
college was an opportunity I couldn’t pass up.”ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
Students will see more bike repair stations pop up on cam-
pus by Spring Break, which caused debate at Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meeting.
A $12,000 bill for the addition of 10 bike repair stations across 
campus was passed among two other resolutions.
Four stations will be at graduate and family housing loca-
tions such as Corry Village, University Village South, Tangle-wood Village and Maguire Village. Two stations will be built in the Tolbert and Broward areas for undergraduate students. The remaining four will be scattered across populated campus areas such as Norman Hall, Carleton Auditorium, UF Levin College of Law and the Cancer and Genetics Research Complex.
Funding was taken from student reserves, which brought a 
heated debate from several senators on whether to spend that 
money on the repair spots.
Sen. Preston Jones was in favor of the bill but disagreed with 
the funds coming from student reserves.   
“If we’re going to spend reserve funds, it should be in an 
emergency,” he said.
Sen. Jenny Clements said students have requested more bike 
repair spots.
“With this funding, this will be another project that will ben-
efit students overall,” she said.
Jones suggested the project be pushed to Fall so the bike re-
pairs would be included in the next budget.UF Student Senate 
debates opening new bike repair stationsAEPhi house flooded during break
STATE
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Florida Highway Patrol is urging 
Florida residents to remember the 
importance of a law requiring motor vehicles to merge away from other vehicles stopped alongside the road.
The Move Over law, enacted in 
2002, was designed to protect re-sponders to accidents or disabled vehicles from being hit by oncom-ing traffic by decreasing speed or switching lanes.
Highway Safety Patrol Sgt. Tracy 
Hisler-Pace, the troop public affairs officer, said she witnesses motorists 
failing to move over or slow down 
while passing emergency vehicles on a daily basis.
“Every time you’re standing on 
the side of the road and traffic is traveling by you at 70-plus miles 
an hour, it’s always stressful and al-
ways scary,” she said.
In Florida, motorists who failed 
to merge or slow down caused more than 130 traffic accidents in 2013, ac-cording to a statement by the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. Injuries occurred in 81 crashes, and two accidents result-ed in fatalities.
Under the law, motorists on a 
two-lane road are required to slow down to 20 mph below the posted 
speed limit or 5 mph on roads with a 
speed limit of 20 mph or less.
For multi-lane roads, drivers 
must vacate the lane closest to the stationary vehicle. But if drivers can’t, they must slow down to 20 mph below the speed limit.  
In Marion County in 2014, three 
people were killed after a roadside 
crash off of Interstate 75, two pedes-
trians and a Florida Highway Patrol trooper, according to a statement from the Florida Highway Patrol.
The fear of motorists not abid-
ing by the Move Over law “always makes you more nervous until you can complete whatever task that you are doing and get off the Inter-
state,” Hisler-Pace said.Florida Highway Patrol 
reinforces Move Over lawWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Cresonia Hsieh / Alligator
Movie Night
Filmmaker Jessica Oreck welcomes UF students to the screening and Q-and-A of “The Vanquishing of 
the Witch Baba Yaga” on Tuesday evening in the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica at UF.
LINDSAY ALEXANDER    
Alligator Contributing Writer
Smathers Library was quiet 
Tuesday evening except for the 
Russian and Polish murmurs com-
ing from the Isser and Rae Price 
Library of Judaica.
Jessica Oreck, a New York-
based director, showed her third 
film, “The Vanquishing of the 
Witch Baba Yaga,” to a room of about 70 students and professors during a free showing. 
The partly animated documen-
tary told the Slavic folklore of Baba Yaga and highlighted East-ern European landscapes and life.
Oreck was invited by John 
Cech, UF English professor and di-rector for the Center for the Study of Children’s Literature and Cul-ture, who had seen her first film.
Oreck said she was inspired 
to create the film in 2008 and so-lidified the idea during her travels in Eastern Europe. She listened to stories from Romanian poets 
about escaping to the woods to collect mushrooms, where they 
talked about life under Commu-nist politician Nicolae Ceausescu’s rule.
“I thought I was going to make 
a movie about mushroom collect-ing in Eastern Europe,” Oreck said. “To them, it wasn’t about the mushrooms. It was about the ges-
ture of returning to the woods.”
She traveled to five countries in 
Eastern Europe to make the film, 
which premiered in April 2014. It 
has since played in film festivals 
around the world, including Aus-tralia, Singapore and Moscow.
The crowd was mostly stu-
dents.
“It was really interesting to be 
able to look at folktales through a different lens, rather than through 
a book,” said Rebecca Vitkus, a 
20-year-old UF English senior.
The film will be shown next at 
the Alamo Draft House in Austin.
“As long as people are willing 
to see it, I’m willing to keep talk-ing about it,” Oreck said.Slavic folklore-based film screened at Smathers LibraryHEALTH
 HEALTH CARE CENTER VISITS HAVE 
DROPPED SINCE THANKSGIVING THOUGH.
ELIZABETH THOMPSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
For Ashlee Larranore, flu season is noth-
ing to worry about. Her last serious run-in 
with the disease was two weeks during her 
sophomore year of high school, and she relies on her strong immune system not to get sick.
“I just feel like I’m in good enough health 
to not have to get a flu shot this year,” Lar-ranore said.
But according to the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention’s weekly summary, flu activity in the U.S. remains high and will continue to rise for the next couple of weeks.
Forty-six states experienced widespread 
flu epidemics during the first week of the year. Compared to other states, Florida has reported a moderate amount of cases, accord-
ing to the summary.
Patient visits to the doctor for flu treat-
ment and flu-like symptoms are almost at the same peak as during the 2012-2013 season. 
Despite the increase of infectious disease, 
the UF Student Health Care Center reported a drop of students visiting the center since 
Thanksgiving.
Catherine Seemann, the communications 
coordinator for the center, said since it started offering vaccinations for students in October 2014, about 8,000 have been distributed. The 
center still offers flu shots for free to UF stu-
dents.
Seemann strongly suggests all students 
protect themselves against the flu this semes-ter. While the health center offers free shots to all UF students, she said other medical cen-
ters and pharmacies like CVS Health, Wal-
greens and local doctors’ offices also have shots available.
Even if a student doesn’t have time to 
come by the center for a free shot, most health 
insurance companies cover the flu shot, she 
added.
The center offers flu shots to UF students 
from 8 to 11:45 a.m. and 1 to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday.
Another recent report by the CDC shows 
that current vaccinations may not work as well against some other flu strains that have appeared this season. The CDC still recom-
mends immediate antiviral vaccination to 
protect against less severe strains.
“We recommend that all students get their 
flu shots as soon as possible,” Seemann said. “It can really make a difference.”Fla. experiences moderate flu spread, local shots still available
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville man was arrested at about 
midnight Tuesday after he reportedly made six 
false 911 calls in the span of a half hour.
Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies went to 
Roberto Lopez’s home at 2958 SW 39th Ave. 
around 11:45 p.m. to serve an injunction from 
his neighbors, whom Lopez had yelled at and threatened on multiple occasions, according to a police report.
When the deputies tried to serve the injunc-
tion, Lopez, 58, screamed at the deputies and accused them of siding with his neighbors and harassing him because he is Hispanic.
Shortly after the deputies left, Lopez began 
calling 911 and screaming that law enforcement would not help him because of his race and that someone needed to come to his home. He called six times within a half hour and yelled at the op-erators so loudly that three nearby officers over-heard him, according to the report.
“Thankfully we do not have to deal with false 
911 calls often,” Gainesville Police spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. “Folks generally understand that the 911 system is for emergencies only.”
Since Jan. 1, Lopez has called 911 at least 
16 times to complain about harassment from neighbors. When police responded, his neigh-bors said Lopez had been instigating arguments 
and yelling racial slurs, according to the report.
“Any false call is taking that person away 
from answering a potential life-threatening 
call,” Tobias said.
Officers arrested Lopez for one charge of 
misuse of the 911 system. As of press time, he remained in jail in lieu of a $15,000 bond.Local man falsely calls 911 
six times in less than one hour
 PLANS POSSIBLY INCLUDED 
POISONING HIS DRINK.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — An Ohio bar-
tender with a history of psychiatric 
illness was indicted last week on a charge of threatening to murder House Speaker John Boehner, possi-bly by poisoning his drink, according to records made available Tuesday.
A grand jury indictment filed in 
U.S. District Court in Ohio on Jan. 7 identified the accused man as Mi-chael R. Hoyt, a resident of Cincin-nati.
A separate criminal complaint 
said Hoyt was fired last fall from his job at a country club in West Ches-ter, Ohio, where he served drinks to Boehner, who is a member.
In a subsequent conversation with 
a police officer, Hoyt said that before leaving, he “did not have time to put something in John Boehner’s drink,” according to the complaint.
The court paper also said, “Hoyt 
told the officer he was Jesus Christ and that he was going to kill Boehner because Boehner was mean to him at the country club and because Boehner is responsible for Ebola.”Ohio bartender accused 
of threatening to kill House Speaker BoehnerNY filmmaker presented “We recommend that all 
students get their flu shots as soon 
as possible. It can really make a 
difference.”
Catherine Seemann
communications coordinator for the UF Stu-
dent Health Care CenterReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Vinyl made
heroic comeback 
last year
Vinyl was the laughingstock of the music industry ever 
since sales of compact discs — CDs — took off in the late 1990s. The digital music format seemed to sound 
as good, if not better, than its analog counterparts. Tapes 
sounded terrible, and vinyl records just took up too much 
damn space. There was no way you were going to fit those 
things in your car or your Walkman.
This trend of neglect continued vinyl’s apparent descent 
into oblivion. Sales bottomed out between 2005 and 2006, and 
it looked as if vinyl was going to be the first organ of the mu-sic industry to die. An entire generation — ours — grew up without the presence of the format that carried the best music 
of the previous century.
But that was the bottom of vinyl’s slump. Since then, sales 
have increased at a rate nearly as steep as their decline. More 
than 9 million vinyl albums were sold in 2014, a 52 percent increase in copies sold the previous year. Granted, they still only make up a slim marketshare of music sales. But clearly, unlike punk, vinyl isn’t dead.
Why is it that suddenly, we love this antiquated thing 
again?
Our theory: Vinyl records are dope as all hell.Sure, there’s the scientifically proven evidence — brought 
to us by the MythBusters, in case you were curious — that 
music sounds better when it’s played from a vinyl record. It’s 
better than tapes and better than digital audio files.
But that doesn’t really explain the comeback. The idea that 
the public would care for quality over convenience is totally negated by the existence of Taco Bell. All music everywhere is practically free now. Even services like Spotify, where you pay for the opportunity to stream unlimited amounts of mu-sic, do it dirt-cheap. Why would anybody choose to drop $50 on a hard copy of it?
Because there’s an incredible amount of sentimental value 
tied up in owning vinyl. Something about holding a physical copy of music you love, having stacks of music sitting around your room, is enough to make a person all fuzzy and emo-tional. It’s somewhere in the difference between streaming an album and holding an album that makes some weird, reptil-ian part of our brains go nuts. The ritual of removing a disc from its sleeve and listening to the pregnant silence — the one between the moment the needle drops and when the music 
starts — feels almost like witchcraft.
As far as physical copies go, vinyl looks and feels nicer 
than CDs. The album art is larger and more detailed, and usu-
ally includes some extra goodies — vinyl copies of Childish Gambino’s “Because the Internet” come with a screenplay — that you can’t get from CDs. But maybe the reason is that CDs aren’t a novelty for us; maybe students 30 years from now 
will discover the disk drives on their parents’ old laptops.
Until then, consider taking a trip to one of the local record 
stores and looking around. You might like what you find.
25 TOTAL VOTES44% YES
56% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Have you kept your 
New Year’s resolution(s)?Today’s question: Have you gotten a flu shot?College football: not so happily ever after
On Jan. 6, 2013, I nearly hit a naked man with my car.
The Florida State University Seminoles had just 
won the Bowl Championship Series National Cham-
pionship, and Tallahassee was ablaze with the excitement 
and pure joy victory brings. I was a student at FSU then and 
was driving back to my apartment when I almost collided 
with the aforementioned naked man. The thing was, I was too happy and too busy mentally preparing the witty status I would later post on Facebook about how Jameis Winston was a god sent from heaven to save the FSU football pro-gram — which I later deleted following the incident with the crab legs — to care that I had almost run over a streaker.
The rest of the ride home was less eventful, but in the 
hours and days following FSU’s biggest victory in more than 
a decade, a palpable electricity flowed through campus.
I bring this up not to taunt The Gator Nation, but to re-
mind everyone that this euphoria, this sense of being on top 
of the world — it does not last.
In the Donald L. Tucker Civic Center, a brilliant sense of 
togetherness washed over the room as Winston made the throw that won the championship. As a deafening roar filled the arena, strangers were hugging strangers, students were high-fiving security guards and a value-sized bin of cheese 
balls was hurled through the air.
The energy spilled onto campus, as students threw toilet 
paper into trees, jumped into fountains and, as I saw first-
hand, ripped off their clothes and ran through congested intersections singing “We are the Champions!” loudly and terribly off-key.
In the days that followed, victory celebrations and pa-
rades were held, professors were showing highlights of the game and FSU championship gear was being worn proudly 
by nearly every student I saw.
But then, it just stopped.
Our bubble had been burst, and it was time to face the re-
ality of a new football season filled with the unknown. How could we top this season? How would we silence the critics that would be coming now that we were the champs?
Gator Nation, I am going to let you all in on a secret. Be-
ing a champion in college sports is like being in a boy band. One Direction is the perfect exam-ple, which is convenient because I wanted to fit them in somehow.
A video of two of the band 
members leaked online showed 
them smoking pot on the way to a concert. GASP!
One Direction is a band made up of five young men in 
their 20s and two were caught doing something they should not have. GASP! The backlash was swift and brutal.
The point is, in the world of sports, you’re only a winner 
until that trophy arrives home. The second after you’re of-ficially on top, everyone else is coming after you.
With Monday’s inaugural College Football Playoff Na-
tional Championship over and done with, the Ohio State 
University Buckeyes may be hauling their hardware back 
home to cheers and celebrations, but it is the University of Oregon, along with all of the other losers, who really get the best deal out of all this.
The chance to rebuild and do it all over again — it may 
sound cliche, but it happens to be the perfect opportunity to try something new. For The Gator Nation, this means em-bracing a new head coach, new assistant coaches and plenty of new players. It means we have not lost yet, have not yet 
fallen behind and currently have a record of 0-0.
The first year of the College Football Playoff was not with-
out controversy. Was it perfect? Nothing is perfect unless 
you’re referring to One Direction.
The critics of the College Football Playoff can moan and 
groan all they like about the problems with this new system, but truthfully, it is a vast improvement over the BCS system. We would have had an entirely different championship matchup this year had the BCS remained intact.
With FSU unbeaten through the regular season, they 
would have earned a No. 1 ranking and a trip to the title game for the second year. Instead, they crashed and burned, much to the delight of my Rowdy Reptile roommates.
So was it a success? To that, I say, ask me in five years. 
And to that streaker whom I nearly ran over one year ago, I would tell him, keep doing you, bro.
Erica Brown is a UF journalism junior.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORErica Brown
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
I don’t care if you identify pri-
marily as an engineer, artist, janitor, ﬁ  reman, exotic danc-
er, librarian, lawyer, CIA agent or whatever your secret dream job may be. I’m going to convince you to start your own company this semester.
Consider this dream job: 2 to 4 p.m.You roll out of bed Monday afternoon 
anywhere in the world. Take a hot shower, brush your teeth, put on sweats and a T-shirt 
and saunter down the street to a cozy ofﬁ  ce 
for a latte, salad and some pizza. You had the option of telecommuting, of course.
4 p.m. to whenever your work is done
You and your friends gather around a 
table as if you were King Arthur’s knights, 
discussing everything from basketball season and TV to company strategy and John Doe’s cool new idea. You start work knowing ex-
actly why it matters — and so does the rest 
of your team.
Compare to this “dream” job:6:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
You make almost $95,000 a year. You wake 
up at 6:30 a.m. in New York or Silicon Valley; 
shower, brush your teeth, pack a peanut but-ter and jelly sandwich; get into uniform; wait 30 minutes in trafﬁ  c to get to the campus of 
some big, evil technology company; stumble 
to your cubicle; clock in; and review the cor-porate Zeus’ memo.
12:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
You binge watch Netﬂ  ix while skim-
ming through software feature requests; sit 
through long, boring meetings about hav-ing too many meetings; take a lunch break at your desk; complain with your co-worker 
about how you aren’t respected; and clock 
out at 5 p.m.
Be honest with yourself: Which situation 
would make you happiest?
Suppose I’m sick of school and opt to avoid 
academia and professional schools. Then my legal career choices become two options:
If I want to be an engineer, the best-paying 
job option I have is to work as a cog in a ma-
chine doing what somebody else tells me to 
do. Maybe if I put in enough hours, I’ll be a manager someday.
If I want to be anything else, I’m in for 
some tough luck. An article in The New York Times last year highlighted some chilling examples of college graduates in ﬁ  elds out-side of science, technology, engineering and mathematics still stuck in unpaid internship cycles.
Instead of settling for medi-
ocrity, there’s a road-less-taken 
option that passionate, non-con-
formist students of any background should 
do: create a startup company.
Ideas don’t have to be complicated. When 
I was a kid, I ran a car-wash business with my younger brother. All we needed was soap, a sponge and a water bucket. We raked in $8 a car.
In fact, as long as there’s a market need, a 
good startup can be whatever kind of busi-ness you want. Last summer, an app called Yo came out that just sends “Yo” to another user. Not long after release, it received more 
than $1 million in investment backing.
A study from Kauffman Foundation — an 
entrepreneurial research foundation — sug-
gests that almost half a million new busi-nesses sprouted up in 2013. In reality, I expect 
that number to be much larger.
One Gainesville incubator, the Florida In-
novation Hub at UF, lists more than 20 ten-
ants on its website. Participants in a student 
incubator, Gainesville Hacker House, recent-
ly launched useful products like Spin Chill — a machine made to quickly turn warm beer cold.
You can start networking anytime. If you 
don’t enjoy writing code, it isn’t hard to ﬁ  nd a College of Engineering undergraduate to help with a basic app, website or database. If you don’t want to illustrate and design 
graphics, there’s a vibrant art community in 
Gainesville.
There’s a catch: Running or working at 
a startup is a risk. It’s a risk because even though you have a job this week, you don’t 
know if it’ll be there the week after.
A report by CB Insights, an analytics 
company, concludes: “55% of failed startups 
raised $1M or less, and almost 70% compa-
nies died having raised less than $5M over-
all.” In general, ideas are unlikely to achieve Facebook- or Grooveshark-level success.
You don’t need to drop out of college like 
Steve Jobs or Mark Zuckerberg to become 
successful — even though Peter Thiel’s foun-
dation would give you $100,000 to do so. You could easily start a new project with your roommate or fellow scientists in your lab.
If you don’t try, you’ll never know what 
could have been. If you fail and can’t try again, at least your resume will stand out!
Andrew Silver is a UF mathematics junior. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.Time to rethink your dream jobColumn
On the very day that political 
cartoonists in France were mur-dered by Islamic radicals simply for 
exercising their right to freedom of 
speech, Students for Justice in Pales-tine member Amanda Nelson wrote an opinion piece urging the boycott 
of the only free country, accord-
ing to Freedom House’s rankings, in the Middle East: Israel. Aside from her absolute lack of empirical evidence for any of the allegations 
she hurls at Israel, she provides no 
proof whatsoever that boycotting companies such as Elbit Systems or Caterpillar will have any sort of tangible, positive effect on even one Palestinian-Arab. 
On the contrary, boycotting com-
panies such as SodaStream will lead to and has led to hundreds of Pal-estinians losing their only oppor-
tunity to an honest, well-paid liv-
ing working for Israeli companies. While extremism and war spread throughout the Middle East like wildﬁ  re, SJP would have UF boycott 
the only country in the region with 
academic institutions where Jews and Arabs peacefully live and study together in coexistence. 
  Nelson’s column last week 
made speciﬁ  c mention of the plight of Palestinian refugees — many of whom have resettled in the West. Of those who haven’t, many are 
kept in festering refugee camps by 
other Arab governments. SJP would have you believe that there is, in es-sence, no conﬂ  ict, just a one-sided 
struggle in which Israel bears all 
fault. Mention of the Palestinian ter-rorist groups that repeatedly blew up innocent civilians across Israel is entirely absent. Checkpoints and 
walls seem unnecessary when the 
ruthless attacks against Israeli ci-vilians that left thousands dead are 
conveniently brushed aside. 
Nelson shows no understanding 
of Israel’s unique situation as the 
only democratic nation surrounded 
on all sides by the likes of the Islam-
ic State group, Hamas, Al-Qaeda, Hezbollah, Palestine Islamic Jihad, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Ansar Beit al-Maqdis (a nasty, Sinai-based terror cell) and the list goes on. No mention 
was made of the fact that the Pal-
estinian refugee problem is a direct consequence of the Arab rejection of a two-state partition peace plan in 
1947 and the Arab state’s refusal to 
incorporate Palestinians into their host countries as equal citizens. 
Additionally, the column made 
no mention of the almost 1 million 
Jewish refugees, including mem-
bers of my own family, who were robbed and exiled from Arab coun-tries simply for being Jews after 1948. According to the author, “the plight of the Palestinians is one of 
the greatest human rights tragedies 
in modern history.” With all respect to the hardships of the Palestinians, the United Nations 2014 Human 
Development Report ranks Pales-
tine number 107 out of 187 countries in human development. Palestine is ranked above countries such as Egypt, South Africa and India, and 
it is considered above the average 
for Arab states in the Middle East. However, we have yet to see any articles from SJP addressing these 
human rights concerns. 
When will we see them mention 
the 9 million and counting Syr-
ian refugees and displaced families ﬂ  eeing the civil war? Or the Yazidis 
and Kurds facing genocide at the 
hands of the Islamic State group? What about the occupation of terri-tory by Russia, China and Turkey? 
As tends to always be the case with 
SJP, the narrow focus on a distorted view of the Arab-Israeli conﬂ  ict is an injustice to the millions of vic-tims of tyranny across the globe. 
With the Middle East in sham-
bles, it is clear where the future of the region lies: becoming more 
like Israel, not less. This university 
should continue to work alongside Israel to further the technological and scientiﬁ  c advancements that 
will make our world better.
Naor Amir
UF mechanical engineering seniorLetter to the Editor
Andrew Silver
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Van Truong, a 19-year-old anthropology sophomore, poses next to the “Starry Night” art 
piece she made on a whiteboard with her biology notes. Truong is applying for a grant within the Bob Graham Center for Public Service to bring the arts and sciences together.
 SHE’S APPLYING FOR A GRANT WITH THE BOB GRAHAM CENTER.
AMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Van Truong has a different way of study-
ing than reviewing notes and making flash-
cards.
The UF anthropology sophomore turned 
her biology notes into Vincent Van Gogh’s “Starry Night” in December on a whiteboard in Smathers Library during finals week.
“I can explain chronologically the order 
of where I placed each word on that Starry Night replica better than a sequence of events in evolutionary history,”wrote Truong, 19, in an email.
Truong is applying for a grant with the 
Bob Graham Center for Public Service to bring the arts and sciences together.“This is an opportunity to suggest some-
thing simple, like displaying more student 
created art in libraries that could positively 
affect the students at our university,” wrote 
Truong, who once studied materials science 
engineering.
Some students have taken notice. Rea-
Lynne Starbird, a UF physiology and kinesi-
ology sophomore, said she quickly snapped a 
photo of the “Starry Night” masterpiece and 
posted it on Facebook. It received more than 
1,000 likes.
“It caught my attention immediately,” 
Starbird, 19, wrote in an email. “It was stun-
ning, even more beautiful than the picture I 
took.”
Truong said she plans to continue making 
the masterpieces with or without the grant.  
“If I’m not awarded this grant,” she said, 
“you’ll still find me creating more Vincent Van Gogh replicas from my class notes on 
whiteboards in the library.”UF student combines art and 
science to study for examsLILIANNE BUSTO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The deadline for students  
who enrolled during or after 
Summer B to submit proof 
of health insurance is Friday, 
or they could face a fee and automatic enrollment in UF’s health insurance plan.
The Mandatory Health In-
surance initiative went into effect at UF on June 30.  
Students who enrolled at 
UF on or after June 30, or who 
completed one degree and 
moved to a new degree-seek-ing program, are required to show proof of health insur-
ance. 
Those who don’t show 
proof of insurance by the 
deadline will automatically be charged a fee to their stu-dent account, according to the UF Student Health Care Center. 
These students could also 
be automatically enrolled for the Student Health Insurance Plan, said Catherine See-mann, the communications 
coordinator at the Student 
Health Care Center.
The fee is separate from 
the penalties that could result 
from lacking insurance under 
the Affordable Care Act.
Students can either enroll 
in the Student Health Insur-ance Plan or complete a waiv-
er to opt out and use their 
own insurance.
Students who enrolled at 
UF before or during Summer 
A 2014 are exempt from the health insurance requirement.
However, all current stu-
dents have access to the ser-
vices available at the center 
regardless of whether they 
have health insurance, See-mann said.
For students who have 
their own plans, the center 
encourages patients to contact 
their insurance companies to find out what their plans cover. 
The health center offers 
services such as immuniza-tions and physical therapy. It also has a pharmacy and a women’s clinic.
To show proof of insur-
ance, students must submit a waiver online at studentin-surance.shcc.ufl.edu/waiver-
instructions.  Deadline to submit proof of 
health insurance to UF is Friday
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
It’s ladies’ night on Wednesdays — 
at the shooting range.
Women who visit Harry Beckwith 
Gun Dealer and Indoor Pistol Range in 
Micanopy on Wednesdays get to shoot 
at a discounted price, firearm instruc-
tor Michelle Pickett said.
“We were starting to get more and 
more women coming into the store,” Pickett said. “I was looking for some-thing more to offer to the ladies.”
At the beginning of 2014, Pickett 
also launched a local chapter of The Well Armed Woman, a national or-
ganization providing educational re-
sources to female gun owners. 
Pickett invites members to a gather-
ing once a month for a group discus-sion, guest lectures and a shooting ses-sion on the range together — living up to the organization’s slogan, “Where The Feminine and Firearms Meet.”While ladies’ night may be just 
for fun, the monthly gatherings focus more on personal safety. The meet-ings typically take place on the second Sunday and third Tuesday of every month, but there won’t be a meeting 
this month. 
Lindsay Tillman, 26, joined after 
taking an all-women concealed-weap-
on class at the range. 
She said her experience with do-
mestic violence showed her how im-portant it is to take measures to protect herself.
Tillman said Pickett teaches the 
women self-defense without having to use a firearm. She said she also enjoys the empowering atmosphere created by the group, a bond Pickett compared to a sisterhood.
“It’s kind of like your own little 
cheerleading team. It’s a lot of fun,” Tillman said. “I definitely think that everybody should give it a shot.”Local shooting range 
now hosts ladies’ nightsCAMPUS
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Authorities with the Charlotte 
County Sheriff’s Office and North 
Port Police Department were busy 
in 2014, each to the tune of more 
than 80,000 calls for service.
While sheriffs, deputies and po-
lice officers answered calls spread 
across their respective jurisdictions 
for myriad reasons, about 2 percent 
were generated from the same ma-jor retailer: Wal-Mart.
In fact, each of the four Charlotte 
County Wal-Marts — all within the 
sheriffs’ jurisdiction — had more 
calls for service last year than in 
2013, according to reviewed public 
records. A call for service is when someone contacts law enforcement 
seeking some kind of response.
“It’s the nature of the business,” 
CCSO Bureau of Law Enforcement 
Commander Maj. James Kenville said of Wal-Mart’s burden on depu-
ties. “But we understand that and 
work to minimize (calls).”
For example, he said, calls have 
included anything from working 
shoplifting operations with loss pre-
vention officers at the stores to hav-
ing sheriffs volunteer around the 
store to increase police presence.
There were 282 calls from the 
Punta Gorda store, 283 from the Englewood store, 384 from the Port 
Charlotte store on Kings Highway 
and 521 from the Port Charlotte store on Murdock. The four business locations made the most calls for ser-
vice in the county in 2014.
Since 2011, calls from the four 
Charlotte Wal-Marts have increased each year and have jumped a total of 
55 percent over that span. Kenville 
said Wal-Mart is frequently near the 
top of the list of places deputies re-
spond to, but he’s not worried.“There’s a high volume of calls, 
but there’s also a lot more people 
going through (the Wal-Marts),” he 
said. “So, we’re going to get called.”
In North Port, there were 1,199 
police calls for service to the city’s sole Wal-Mart, or more than three 
calls per day. North Port Assistant 
Chief of Police Anthony Sirianni 
said authorities have done their 
homework to prepare for so many 
calls. The events include anything 
from thefts to car crashes to reports 
generated by people going to the Wal-Mart to call in other crimes that 
happened elsewhere.
“In the event that a large retailer 
of this nature plans to come to the 
city, we do research on other locals and check their calls for service,” he 
said. “That way, we can plan and 
relocate resources to that specific 
zone.”
North Port police made 28 theft-
related arrests at the city’s store. The NPPD has even caught shoplifters at 
Shop With a Cop events.
About 35 percent of calls from 
the Charlotte Wal-Marts were for 
thefts and about 8 percent for car ac-
cidents.
Local law enforcement works 
with Wal-Mart’s loss prevention teams to catch criminals in the 
stores, but Wal-Mart corporate 
spokesman Aaron Mullins said Wal-
Mart’s shoplifting stats aren’t public 
record.Wal-Mart accounts for 2 percent of police calls in Fla. county
“There’s a high volume of 
calls, but there’s also a lot 
more people going through 
(the Wal-Marts).”
Maj. James Kenville
CCSO Bureau of Law Enforcement 
CommanderCHRISTINA HUNT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Craft beer lovers can soon re-
joice as Swamp Head Brewery 
moves to a larger location. 
The brewery that describes it-
self as “inherently Floridian” will open at the new location in the next couple of weeks, although no ofﬁ  cial date has been set, said 
Swamp Head assistant bar man-
ager Ryan Wakeland. 
Swamp Head’s current loca-
tion at 3140 SW 42nd Way is set to 
be demolished, but Wakeland said 
the company outgrew the smaller space months ago. The brewery will move about two miles away into a 13,000-square-foot facility 
located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave. 
Wakeland said the new build-
ing and larger lot will give the 
brewery more room for growth, surrounding wetlands and park-
ing spaces.
At the new location, there will 
be a 30-barrel brew system as op-posed to the 10-barrel one it has 
now, providing space for more 
Swamp Head brews, he said. 
Swamp Head offers a variety of beer including India pale ales, 
oatmeal coffee stouts and honey 
cream ales. Eric Portalatin, 22, said he en-
joys craft beer for its unique taste 
and is excited for the change of location. At his apartment, craft beer bottles pack the space on top 
of his kitchen cabinets. 
“My grandma saw all the 
bottles and almost had a heart at-
tack,” the UF family, youth and community sciences senior said. “Craft beer is much more diverse than big beer brands. I like both 
but prefer craft because it has 
more genuine ﬂ  avor.”
Portalatin said he is looking 
forward to touring the new loca-tion and continuing to support an 
environmentally conscious local 
business.
“Swamp Head not only makes 
excellent beer, but they also are 
conscious of their impact on local 
business and the environment,” 
Portalatin said.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Alligator File Photo
Both 32-ounce jugs and one-gallon jugs of beer are displayed at Swamp Head Brewery. The brewery 
is moving locations because it outgrew its original space.
LOCALSwamp Head Brewery to open at new location in coming weeks
“Swamp Head not 
only makes excellent 
beer, but they also are 
conscious of their impact 
on local business and the 
environment.”
Eric Portalatin
UF family, youth, and community 
sciences senior
 HIS SISTER ONLY HEARD FROM HIM NOW.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HAVANA — The Cuban spy traded to the U.S. for 
jailed Cuban intelligence agents but out of contact with 
his family for nearly a month is in the U.S. and is doing 
ﬁ  ne, his sister told The Associated Press in an interview 
Tuesday.
Vilma Sarraff, who lives in Spain, said her 51-year-old 
brother Rolando called her for the ﬁ  rst time since his Dec. 
17 release amid a big thaw in U.S.-Cuban relations. The 
brother told her he is “free and doing ﬁ  ne.”
She declined to say where he is living in the U.S. or anything else about her brother, a former cryptologist in Cuba’s Directorate of Intelligence who helped the U.S. 
crack a Cuban spy network in Florida.
Sarraff’s mother, Odesa Trujillo, told the AP that she 
and her husband had heard nothing from their son since 
his release but were optimistic about getting news about 
him within days. She said Sarraff’s 79-year-old father, 
also named Rolando, had come down with pneumonia since his son’s release.
The younger Rolando Sarraff was identiﬁ  ed in De-
cember by a former U.S. ofﬁ  cial as the released spy who 
President Barack Obama hailed as one of Washington’s 
most valuable assets when he announced the thaw in rela-tions. But U.S. and Cuban ofﬁ  cials never disclosed where he went after his release to Vilma Sarraff or her parents, who live in Havana.
Vilma Sarraff spoke a day after the U.S. conﬁ  rmed that 
Cuba had freed 53 political prisoners promised their lib-erty as part of the historic accord between Obama’s ad-ministration and the Cuban government.
Before his downfall, the younger Rolando Sarraff 
helped the U.S. crack the “Wasp Network,” a Florida-based Cuban spy ring that included members of the so-called Cuban Five, the last three of whom were released in exchange for him.
The Cuban Five were convicted in 2001 of being unreg-
istered foreign agents, and three also were found guilty of espionage conspiracy for failed efforts to obtain military secrets from the U.S. Southern Command headquarters.Cuban spy hailed by Obama ﬁ  ne, back on US soil after tradeWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-16-14-9-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short walk to bus stop, large yard for fun/garden, fireplace, DW, game room, cent heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text/call 352-339-2342 GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com   1-16-14-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-16-15-8-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
OFFICE ASSISTANT
No experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
EXTENDED DAY
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM 
IS NOW HIRING
ALACHUA COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
****ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES/ SPORTS - $10//hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
****CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS - $10/hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
Hours required - M,T, Th, F - 12:45-5:30PM
Wed. 12:30-5:30PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
For more information call : 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
1-14-15-6-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for 
a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
CPA firm needs general office help Tuesday & Thursday 0800-1400. QuickBooks, Excel, Scanning, & a Tax Class a plus--detail oriented a must. Email resume to soren@cpa.vg   1-14-3-14
-WANTED-
Pers./Admin. Asst.
$25/hr.
home & office work in
G’ville, Jax & Asheville
Ben Campen
352-375-4152
1-15-15-2-14
St. Johns River Water Management District is actively seeking multi-talented applicants for the position of Creative Services Specialist. Successful applicant will create web pages, design informational graphics and presenta-tions, and produce videos. For more informa-tion and to apply, visit www.floridaswater.com. EEO/DFWP/TFWP/VET PREF    1-20-15-5-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Alex Murphy is still 
adjusting to playing for the UF men’s basketball team. Read the story on Page 14.Billy D to coach U19 team again
UF men’s basketball coach Billy Donovan will coach the 2015 USA Basketball men’s U19 world championship team.Track duo earns SEC honors
Bridgette Owens and Damien Daniels were respectively named the Southeastern Conference’s Women’s Runner of the Week and Men’s Freshman of the Week, the conference announced on Tuesday.FINNEY-SMITH AVERAGING 18.3 POINTS AND 6.2 REBOUNDS IN FLORIDA’S LAST SIX GAMES
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
To coach Billy Donovan, Dorian 
Finney-Smith is a team player.
That’s why he had no problem 
coming off the bench last season — 
the first year he was eligible to com-pete at UF after transferring from Virginia Tech.
That’s why he would dish the 
ball out to keep the team flowing in-stead of taking an easy shot.
And for Finney-Smith, that role 
paid dividends last year.
“I think last year coming off 
the bench was one of those things where he kind of wanted to fit in,” Donovan said, “and he did have 
a good year for us, did play sub-
stantial amount of minutes, had some veteran guys around him that helped. But he was never one of those guys that ever really wanted to inject himself and do more, he never wanted to hurt chemistry. At times last year we needed him to do 
more, and I’m not so sure he ever 
felt comfortable that giving more, doing more would be the best thing for our team.”
Now that he’s healthy and a con-
stant in the starting lineup, Finney-
Smith’s numbers have only im-
proved since gaining the additional responsibility.
“I think he performs and plays 
better when he’s challenged,” Don-ovan said. 
And he was challenged early.The 6-foot-8 Finney-Smith 
opened the season scoring 15 points 
on 5-of-9 shooting in Florida’s 68-
45 win against William & Mary on Nov. 14.
But in that game, Finney-Smith Despite early challenges, Finney-Smith shining for Florida
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Sunday marked the start of the No. 3 
Gators’ 2015 season, but it also marked the 
end of an arduous journey for senior Kier -
sten Wang.
Against Ball State, Wang competed for 
the first time since the 2013 season, a year 
in which she appeared poised for a bright 
future. However, she suffered a devastating 
injury during the fall semester that followed 
— two adductor tears in her right leg — put -
ting that future in doubt.
There was hope last winter that the inju -
ry would heal quickly and Wang would be 
able to rejoin her teammates at some point 
late in the season, but the injury did not heal 
and she never got the chance to be part of 
the program’s second consecutive national 
title as a competitor.
“It was difficult,” Wang said. “It’s always 
harder ‘cause you know you wanna be out there. For me to watch people do floor — 
like, I love floor, and I wanna perform, … 
but I know (my teammates) had my back even though I couldn’t be out there.”
Wang said she did everything she could 
to contribute to the team, whether that was moving mats or simply cheering for her 
team as loud as she could, and she believes 
the experience has been valuable.
“I think it’s made me appreciate it a little 
bit more,” Wang said. “…I’ve just been see
-
ing all perspectives of what it is to be on a team and the importance of not only just 
competing, but being there for your team
-
mates in every aspect.”
But after the long 
months of rehab and train -
ing, Wang finally got the 
opportunity to regain the 
perspective she had de -
sired since the injury — 
the perspective of a com -
petitor.
She scored a respect -
able 9.800 in the vault and 9.825 on floor, and coach Rhonda Faehn said she could tell 
how much the moment meant to Wang.
“It was very, very emotional for her,” 
Faehn said. “You could just see the emotion 
and the stress level kind of release when she came off the floor, because it had been two 
years almost since she had competed and a 
long, hard road back because of the severity of the injury.”Wang back from injury for UFJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith dunks during UF’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Saturday in the 
O’Connell Center.
 JOAKIM NOAH, MIKE MILLER AND CHANDLER PARSONS ARE ALSO MAKING STRONG CONTRIBUTIONS.
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
This NBA season has not gone the 
way Mike Miller envisioned.
The former Florida Gator and NBA 
champion with the Miami Heat teamed 
back up with LeBron James in Cleveland this season, pursuing another title to cap 
off a career that has had its share of ups 
and downs.
With James missing the team’s last 
eight games before returning Tuesday against the Phoenix Suns, the Cavs have struggled to a 1-7 record in that span.
Miller, averaging 3.0 points and 
2.2 rebounds per game this season, has played sparingly off the bench. He missed seven games earlier in the season with a concussion.
While the Cavaliers are circling the 
.500 mark, several other former Gators are in prime position to provide produc-tion for potential playoff teams.
Al Horford, a two-time national 
champion for the Gators, has witnessed his Atlanta Hawks experience their best season so far in his tenure. Horford, who recorded his first career triple-double in 
a 105-87 win over the Philadelphia 76ers 
on Tuesday, remains a key component for a Hawks team that has gone a stag-gering 23-2 over the last 25 games.
When healthy, Horford has the mak-
ings of an NBA superstar, a center who has shored up his rim protection while also becoming a more diverse, back-to-the-basket player. The Hawks have de-
feated the East’s best, and the team cur-
rently sits at first place in the conference Al Horford’s Hawks 
soaring high, best in EastGATORS IN THE NBA
SEE GYM, PAGE 15SEE NBA, PAGE 15SEE FINNEY-SMITH, PAGE 15
Kiersten Wang
“I know this is where I’m 
supposed to be and it’s what I love 
doing.”
Kiersten Wang
UF gymnast “He has such a good feel. 
… He has a tremendous 
knack and very gifted 
basketball IQ...”
Billy Donovan
UF men’s basketball coachTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Fans 
took to the streets after Ohio 
State’s football championship 
victory early Tuesday, yelling 
and screaming in delight, setting nearly 90 fires and in the case of a 
few, tearing down an Ohio Stadi-
um goal post. A few injuries were reported.
Police made a handful of ar-
rests after using tear gas and pepper spray to disperse crowds of Ohio State students and other fans following the Buckeyes’ win.
Officers on foot, on horses and 
in cruisers patrolled the main drag through campus after mid-night Tuesday, when revelers 
spilled out of bars near the cam-
pus to celebrate the university’s 42-20 win over the University of Oregon in Dallas.
Thousands, chanting “Let us 
in!”, converged on the Ohio State 
football stadium where police 
used tear gas to turn them away. Most headed back to the bar area, where cruisers lined the street 
and officers limited pedestrian 
and vehicular traffic.
Fans tore down a temporary 
goal post used for high school games on the south end of the Ohio Stadium field, said univer-sity spokesman Dan Hedman.
University police responded 
to various places in and around campus, including Ohio Stadi-um, the university’s Mirror Lake, 
a popular student gathering spot, 
and the neighborhood north of campus, Hedman said.
“There was like a fog, because 
there was so much tear gas being used,” said Courtney Olesh, 19, an economics and finance major from Kent, describing the early 
morning scenes on campus.
The 89 fires reported to the 
Columbus Fire Department 
involved trash bins, Dump-
sters and couches, according to 
spokeswoman Battalion Chief Tracy Smith. The agency also said it responded to three reports of people with injuries in the 
campus area.
Smith says the 89 reports start-
ed coming in just before 1 a.m. 
with the last reported about 4:45 
a.m.
Some officers used pepper 
spray to clear revelers from the 
street, while canisters of tear gas were also deployed. The crowds 
began going home within about 
two hours.
WCMH-TV, showing images 
of revelers burning a couch, re-
ported Tuesday that police ar-
rested a handful of students who could face both criminal and uni-versity charges.
Gunfire in the campus area af-
ter the game was reported by po-lice dispatchers, with no reports of injuries, according to the Co-lumbus Dispatch.
No problems were reported in 
Oregon.HE IS 0-FOR-5 FROM THREE AND 
SHOOTING .500 FROM THE FREE-THROW LINE THIS SEASON.
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ 
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa 
The growing pains are in full effect for 
the Florida basketball program. 
With a slew of suspensions behind them 
and a not-so-stellar pre-conference sched-
ule finished, the Gators are moving toward the possibly greener pasture of the South-eastern Conference. 
Sitting with a 9-6 overall record and 2-0 
in the SEC, the Gators seem to have turned a new page.
And so has Alex Murphy.Although he practiced with the team 
throughout training camp, the transfer from Duke was not able to see game action until Florida’s 63-50 win against Wake For-est on Dec. 20, per NCAA transfer regula-
tions. Murphy scored nine points off the 
bench in his debut.
“I think I’m comfortable now, in the 
game … but I definitely want to get better,” Murphy said. “I’m not settling for where 
I’m at right now or anything. I need to im-
prove and do what I can to help the team.”
The road to Gainesville has been a 
winding one for the Rhode Island native, 
who initially attempted to bypass his se-
nior year of high school at St. Marks School to join Duke’s 2011 recruiting class.
After finishing up several requirements 
at South Kingstown High School, Murphy 
was able to join the Duke basketball team 
after his junior year.
The son of former NBA player Jay Mur-phy and brother of former Gator Erik Mur-phy, Alex has a natural ability to pivot be-tween various positions on the basketball court. 
He attributes the diversity to a high bas-
ketball IQ.
“I’ve been in college for a while now so 
I’ve learned a lot here and my past experi-ences too,” Murphy said after Florida’s 65-
63 loss to Florida State on Dec. 30. “I guess 
it’s just something where things come easy to me. Plays, different schemes, stuff we want to do (offensively) or defensively. I don’t know I kinda just pick things up fast.”
While Murphy’s college trajectory may 
seem journeyman-esque, he’s really only played one full season of college basketball — his redshirt freshman year at Duke. He redshirted his freshman year and played 
in just five games his junior year before 
transferring to Florida, where he sat out last season. 
Since making his Florida debut on Dec. 
20, Murphy has played in all five games and started one. 
But his stats have been subpar at best 
this season. Averaging 16.8 minutes per game, Murphy is shooting 50 percent from free-throw line, second worst on the team only to Chris Walker (43.5 percent). He has 
yet to sink a three-point shot, going 0-for-5 
from behind the arc, and he’s averaging 2.4 rebounds per game.
Murphy was quick to note that he’s con-
fident he can perform better than what he’s shown so far — especially from the free-throw line and three-point range. He said improvement on those fronts will come as his confidence grows.
“Sometimes when you’re shooting 
a bad percent from the free-throw line, you’re gonna stop shooting,” Murphy said on Monday. “You’re gonna stop attacking 
the rim aggressively because you don’t 
want to go to the free-throw line. That’s something that I can’t do. I’m not gonna do that.”
Coach Billy Donovan has said in the 
past that a key to Murphy’s and other play-er’s growth will be contingent upon how they handle themselves as they attempt to correct the struggles they’re facing on 
the court—in Murphy’s case, his offensive 
struggles.
“I have a totally different view because 
I think you can get so caught up into the result and you want to the same result,” 
Donovan said after UF’s loss to Florida 
State on Dec. 30, “but at the same point, they’ve got to have the correct, competi-tive, disposition, we don’t have that. We 
don’t.”14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alex Murphy attempts a layup during Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Sat-
urday in the O’Connell Center. Murphy has struggled through his first five games this sea -
son, going 0-for-5 from three-point range and making just 50 percent of his free throws.
AP Photo
Police officers try to disperse the crowd of Ohio State fans blocking High Street in Columbus, Ohio, as they celebrate the Buckeye’s 42-20 National Championship win over Oregon outside of Ohio State’s campus on Monday.
COLLEGE FOOTBALLOhio State football revelers set fires, tear down goal postMurphy still finding his way for UF after sitting out early in seasonShe added that the most stressful part 
for Wang was simply getting over the 
mental and physiological hurdle of get-
ting her confidence back and having the 
courage to go back out there, not only be-cause of the long layoff, but also because Wang hasn’t competed since the injury.
“So for her to go out and nail that first 
floor routine, I think she just had this huge sense of relief that was very over-coming for her, but very exciting at the same time,” Faehn said.
 “I know she feels she’s pumped, she’s 
ready, she’s excited to get back out there and do it again.”
Wang agreed.
“Once I was out there, it felt like I was 
back,” she said. “I know this is where I’m 
supposed to be and it’s what I love do-ing. Especially after I finished floor, after I hit a floor routine I was just like ‘This is 
it - I’m back.’”
Sloan update: An MRI revealed 
Bridget Sloan suffered a severe ankle 
sprain on Sunday. She was in a boot and 
on crutches Tuesday.
Sloan injured her ankle during her 
floor routine in UF’s season-opening win 
against Ball State. 
One rotation earlier, the junior earned 
a perfect 10 on vault, earning Southeast-ern Conference Specialist of the Week honors in the process.
UF said in a release that Sloan could 
return to the lineup late in the season, de-pending on her recovery time.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Consistency, health remain keys for Finney-Smith’s effectiveness
also suffered hairline fractures in the middle and index fingers of his non-shooting hand.
The Portsmouth, Virginia, native 
missed UF’s next two games — a 69-67 loss to Miami and a 61-56 over-time win against Louisiana-Monroe 
— while he tended to the injury.
He has since played in every 
game this season, but said after Flor-
ida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Saturday that he only re-
cently fully regained his confidence.
In Florida’s last six games, 
Finney-Smith is making 54.8 per-
cent of his shots from the field — 
including 43.2 percent from down-
town — and averaging 18.3 points and 6.2 rebounds per game.
But Finney-Smith has not let his 
injury define how he played.
“I played so I can’t use that as 
an excuse,” Finney-Smith said. “I’m just happy to be healthy.”
Added redshirt junior forward 
Alex Murphy: “He’s playing at a re-ally high level right now. I mean I think that’s a result of practice and inputting the time himself.”
Donovan credits Finney-Smith’s 
ability to adapt and expansive knowledge of the game as to why the redshirt junior has found his stride as of late.
“Dorian is such a good mover,” 
Donovan said. “He has such a good feel. … He has a tremendous knack and very gifted basketball IQ to un-
derstand everything and play ev-
erywhere. I think that’s what makes him so versatile.”
But even at that, Donovan said 
he wants to see Finney-Smith con-
tinue to play hard day-in and day-
out.
“He’s put together a stretch here 
where he’s been a lot more consis-
tent,” Donovan said. “Now, wheth-
er or not he can do that for the re-mainder of this season remains to be seen. Even this amount of time that he’s put together consistent games, 
that has not been his M.O. since he’s 
been in college, and he’s hopefully taken a step in the right direction of doing more of that.”FINNEY-SMITH , 
 from page 13
GYM , from page 13Sloan injury 
not good news 
for FloridaNoah helping guide Bulls in Rose’s absence
at 30-8.
The Hawks haven’t secured the Eastern 
Conference just yet, however, as Bradley Beal’s 
Washington Wizards have come on late recent-
ly. 
Despite experiencing a 120-89 walloping at 
the hands of Horford’s Hawks last week, Beal 
has regained the form he displayed last season 
that had numerous NBA pundits declaring him the next young guard to make “the leap” to stardom, like fellow Wizard John Wall has done over the course of the last year.
Joakim Noah’s Chicago Bulls have sorely 
missed the play of the oft-injured Derrick Rose, but the team has been thrilled with the emer-gence of two-way guard Jimmy Butler as a le-
gitimate NBA All-Star. 
Noah, who underwent knee surgery over 
the summer, has shown glimpses of the low-
post threat that won him the NBA Defensive Player of the Year title last season.  NBA , from page 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith grabs a rebound during UF’s win against Mississippi State on Saturday. The 
redshirt junior is averaging 14.1 points and 5.5 rebounds per game this season for Florida. 
AP Photo
Chicago Bulls center Joakim Noah (13) shoots past Orlando Magic forward Channing Frye (8) during the first half of Chicago’s 121-114 loss on Monday.
Highlight Performances
Al Horford, Atlanta Hawks: 21 
points, 10 assists, 10 rebounds 
in win against Philadelphia 76ers
Bradley Beal, Washington 
Wizards: 13 points, 5 rebounds, 3 assists in win against San 
Antonio Spurs
Chandler Parsons, Dallas 
Mavericks: 12 points, 3 rebounds in loss against L.A. Clippers
Marreese Speights, Golden 
State Warriors: 12 points, 8 rebounds in win against ClevelandGRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
 Just four games into Southeast-
ern Conference play, the Gators 
women’s basketball team is ﬁ  ghting 
for its season.
Sitting at 1-3 in conference play, 
Florida is searching for answers to ﬁ  x an offense that has sputtered at 
times and failed miserably at others.
Thursday night’s contest at Ken-
tucky has all of the potential to be a 
statement game for the Gators – just like it was last year.
Florida went into Lexington and 
upset the then-No. 6 Wildcats 83-73 in Rupp Arena on Jan. 5, 2014, a sig-nature win for the team. 
The win helped give the Gators 
the necessary momentum to push forward and make the NCAA Tour-nament.
For Florida, it is all about the 
next game. The Gators know that 
any game could spark a run and 
turn their season around.
“In this league, it’s dog eat dog,” 
said freshman Brooke Copeland in reference to SEC play. “You can not stop playing, you can not give any less effort or any less intensity 
throughout the entire game. We just 
have to learn to play with that (in-tensity) consistently throughout the entire game, not let up at all.”
With the team unable to keep the 
intensity up in numerous games, the Gators have either found them-selves down by a signiﬁ  cant margin in the opening minutes or the team has developed a sizable lead only to 
watch its opponent chip away and 
make it a ball game.
For a team that loves to run the 
court, the Gators have been un-able to run teams out of the gym 
— every victory is seemingly hard 
fought and close.
There is no time to get comfort-
able against any opponent.
“We have to put the past behind 
us, and know that what’s happened has happened and all we can do is go forward from here,” Copeland 
said. “After (the loss to) Missouri, 
we can only go up from here. If we stop here, it’s not going to be good for us at all.”
Finding success will likely come 
from getting Florida’s shooters out of the slump they’ve been in since the start of conference play. With Carlie Needles sidelined for the near future with a concussion, the 
Gators need starting guards Cassie 
Peoples and January Miller to step up in her absence.
While Peoples has 
done a sizable job this season, her ﬁ  rst in a dual point guard role, both she and Miller have struggled with shooting the ball as of late.
Peoples heads into Thursday’s 
matchup with the Wildcats shoot-ing 12-for-56 from the ﬁ  eld over the last ﬁ  ve games. 
Miller has been even worse, go-
ing a ice cold 6-for-42 over the same span.
The shooting woes have downed 
the Gators repeatedly, and the an-
swers the team is searching for can 
be found amongst all the misses. There doesn’t seem to be an easy ﬁ  x, however, 
when your ball handlers 
can’t knock down shots they’re used to making.
After the Gators went 14-for-61 
from the ﬁ  eld against Missouri, one 
would think the team would focus 
its efforts on working on its shoot-ing.
Not so, said redshirt senior Kay-
la Lewis.
“We’re really focused on our 
defense,” Lewis said. “A shooting night like that can happen to any team. Even if you’ve shot a thou-
sand shots the night before, some-
times the ball doesn’t go your way.”
16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
January Miller drives into the lane during Florida’s win against Jack-
sonville on Nov. 14. In UF’s last ﬁ  ve games, Miller has made just 6 of 42 shots as Florida’s offense has struggled to ﬁ  nd continuity.
Florida ﬁ  nding identity in SEC play
UF W omen’s 
Bask etball
MARY FRANCIS
Alligator writer @Bymaryfrancis
The UF men’s swimming 
and diving teams returned to 
the O’Connell Center Natatori-um unaffected by the hiatus in training that came with winter 
break. 
Associate head coach An-
thony Nesty, in his eighth sea-
son with the No. 4 ranked team, said the swimmers’ physical shape is always a worry come January.
“Fortunately they all did 
what they had to do at home 
during the holidays,” Nesty 
said, “and they came back in great shape and did what they had to do training leading up to that dual meet.”
Florida’s coaches stress to 
swimmers before each break to stay in shape during the several weeks out of the pool. 
But Nesty said this break a 
surprising nine out of ten lis-tened.
And at the Florida State 
dual meet on Jan. 3, the teams showed their physical upkeep.
In the ﬁ  rst meet of the spring 
season, Florida defeated No. 22 FSU in Tallahassee 173-126.
Freshman Caeleb Dressel, 
who participated in four events, fourth in the 200-yard freestyle and was part of the 400-yard medley relay team that ﬁ  nished in third place.
The Green Cove Springs, 
Florida, native was the No. 3 ranked recruit in Florida and 
No. 20 nationally in the 2014 
class.
“Caeleb is a fantastic athlete, 
and he was a fantastic athlete coming in,” Nesty said. “He’s one of the fastest high school kids ever.”
Though Dressel did not 
make any top individual times 
from the FSU dual meet, he 
holds the No. 4 times in the 50-yard and 100-yard freestyle this season.
Nesty said Dressel brings enthusiasm to a top Southeast-ern Conference program.
“Obviously when you get a 
kid as good as him, everybody gets pretty excited,” he said.
Women’s swimming and 
diving: Coaches expressed 
concerns for the women’s swimming and diving teams’ shape at FSU with the team’s last competition coming before Thanksgiving.
Florida’s 
seven-week down period did not en-sure victory, as the Gators experienced defeat at the hands of the 
No. 20 Semi-
noles, 185-115.
“We were a little rusty,” 
associate head coach Martyn 
Wilby said.
Junior Lindsey McKnight 
dominated the meet with three ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nishes in all her in-dividual events.
McKnight completed the 
200-yard freestyle in 1:48.86, the 200-yard breaststroke in 2:18.21 and the 200-yard IM in 2:02.28.
“(She’s) matured and now a 
leader,” Wilby said of the two-
time All-American champion.
“We always knew she was 
versatile, but now she’s start-
ing to show it. She can swim breaststroke legs, freestyle, IM, go anywhere from the 50 free to the 200 freestyle.”
Wilby said No. 12 Auburn 
will be a great SEC matchup come Jan. 24.
“They’re looking forward to 
it,” he said. “They like racing.”
For the men’s teams, Nesty 
stresses the clock is their en-emy.
“The most important thing 
to tell our kids is not to go out there and swim for time,” he said.
“Usually if you do that, you 
come up short every time.”Dressel, McKnight 
lead UF swim teamsSWIMMING & DIVING
Dressel
