VOLUME 109 ISSUE 78 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Same-sex unions blessed by local church
Ministers from United Church Gainesville blessed 
13 same-sex and heterosexual couples, pg. 5. New CrossFit gyms opening around town
Two new gyms are opening this year, pg 8.  
Gun deaths could surpass car deaths in 2015
The data is based on a Center for American Progress study, pg 3. 
UF men’s 
basketball coach 
Billy Donovan 
has been stressing 
consistency with his 
team as SEC play 
begins. Read the 
story on Page 13.
76/60
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Kelsey Grabach, a 21-year-old UF general business studies senior, plays music for a tour group on Century Tower’s 11th-ﬂ  oor carillon on Sunday afternoon. She was a part of a 50-minute concert
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
A plan from President Barack Obama to 
make the ﬁ  rst two years of community col-lege free has some Santa Fe academics and students at odds.
Obama said his plan, titled “America’s College Promise,” is simple: In order for stu-dents to earn two free years of classes, they will be required to attend school at least part-time, maintain a 2.5 GPA and make strides toward completing their degree.
Community colleges “would (also) have 
to do their part by offering high-quality aca-demics and helping students actually gradu-ate,” Obama said during a speech Friday.
Santa Fe College President Jackson Sasser 
praised the proposal, calling it a “noble mo-tion” but said it’s “very difﬁ  cult to conceive” the plan coming into effect anytime soon.
Regardless, the proposal would have a 
signiﬁ  cant impact because it would mean more funds for the college, which in turn would increase its ability to help students, Sasser said.
Some people have been less enthusiastic, 
questioning the president’s proposal.
Dan Sheremet, a 20-year-old Santa Fe 
psychology junior, pointed out that even if classes are free for students, the money to Santa Fe reacts to Obama’s community college plan
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Saturday afternoon for 
reportedly robbing a home in Por-ters Community along with two other people who have not yet been  
caught.
Tykey Taran Mendez, 22, of 9515 
SW 92nd St., was in a house with 
two residents, both UF students, and two friends Friday. Just after 2 p.m., two masked gunmen entered the home, which sits on the 600 Block of Southwest Third Street, ac-cording to a police report.
The gunmen took ﬁ  ve iPhones, a 
PlayStation 4, two guns, and at least $300 in cash. One of the gunmen kicked a resident in the face, accord-ing to the report.
Mendez helped the gunmen 
search one of the victims and then left with them.
After a cab driver described 
picking up Mendez and a second suspect about 300 yards from the house, Mendez was arrested at 845 NW Eighth Ave. just after 1:30 p.m. Saturday. During questioning, Men-dez gave ofﬁ  cers false statements, according to the report.
As of press time, Mendez is be-
ing held at the Alachua County Jail 
in lieu of a $100,000 bond for ﬁ  ve 
charges of home invasion robbery with a ﬁ  rearm.Two 
masked gunmen rob local home
LOCAL
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Stuart Bishop loved his truck.
He paid for the 2004 Dodge Ram himself 
and was ﬁ  xing it up with his father.
His parents couldn’t wait to see his infec-
tious smile when he opened their Christmas present: a promise of four Moto Metal mud grip tires.
“He just had so many dreams for that 
truck,” his mother said.Stuart never got to enjoy the tires, which 
arrived Wednesday. Instead, they were book-ends to his cofﬁ  n as an entire community came together to celebrate his life Saturday.
On Jan. 5,  just before 10 p.m., Stuart was 
driving west on County Road 318 when he veered off the road and hit a sign. His truck kept going, crashing head-on with a tree and then a fence. He wasn’t wearing a seat belt. Authorities pronounced him dead minutes later.He was 17.
      
Williston is a small town just a half hour 
south of UF, nestled between trees lined with Spanish moss and ﬁ  elds ﬁ  lled with cows. With barely more than 2,750 residents, the town has one high school. The sign overlook-ing Main Street embodies Williston’s South-ern charm: “Come once, you’re a guest. Come twice, you’re family.”
Small Florida town honors life of deceased
SEE OBIT, PAGE 4SEE TUITION, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 78 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva    photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle @alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi WickesFRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
62/39RAIN
59/43CLOUDY
66/52THUNDER-
STORMS
73/56THUNDER-
STORMS
76/60
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History Museum
Become a part of music history. Learn how to become a better 
writer and hear musical master-
pieces unfold around you with a lesson and presentation by the Dixie Desperados from 6 to 8 p.m. Feb. 19. A similar event will be March 12 at the same time, featuring a lesson and presentation by Stan Lynch, the former drummer of Tom Petty 
and the Heartbreakers.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free RecSports Fitness Event
Interested in exploring state-of-the-art fitness equipment such as TRX®, Power Plate® and Kinesis® and formats such 
as Mat Pilates, Inversion Yoga 
and Yin Yoga? UF RecSports is holding a free, open-house event promoting small group training. Register on RSConnect for a free, 30-minute demo on Tuesday or Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. More information is available on recsports.ufl.edu.
Find out if Peace Corps is for you
A Peace Corps applica-tion workshop will be held Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the International Center, Room 173, located in the Hub. Students will hear a brief over-view of Peace Corps, learn 
how to be more competitive 
for Peace Corps service and walk through the new-and-improved online application. The application deadline for Peace Corps programs depart-ing this summer is Thursday. Come see if Peace Corps service is the opportunity you’ve been 
looking for! Peace Corps has 
thousands of volunteer oppor-tunities for U.S. citizens aged 18 and older who are interested in public service abroad. The Peace Corps office is located at the UF International Center in the Hub in Suite 170. Call 352-294-2267 or email peacecorps@
ufic.ufl.edu.
Intramural Sports in Spring 2015
Intramural sports kick off in 
Spring 2015 with outdoor soc-cer followed by 4-on-4 flag football and 5-on-5 basketball. Register for outdoor soccer by Wednesday and register for 
both flag football and basketball 
by Jan. 21. Other sports offered this semester include swim-ming, sand volleyball, ten-nis, dodgeball, a 2-person golf scramble and inner-tube water polo. Register on IM Leagues. Visit recsports.ufl.edu for the full schedule and more infor-
mation.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays
Talking Gators meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the Entomology Building off of Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of 
Art. For more information, 
go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org. Talking Gators is also on Facebook. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are em-powered to develop commu-
nication and leadership skills, 
resulting in greater self-confi-dence and personal growth.” All are welcome.
Family FunDay at the 
Matheson History MuseumCelebrate more than 1,500 years of Gainesville history 
with the installation of the 
Matheson’s new permanent exhibition entitled “Exploring Our Native Heritage,” which features a 1,500 year old Timucuan canoe. This event, held on Jan. 25 from 1 to 4 p.m., will also feature Native American dancing, educa-
tional activities, face paint-
ing and much more. Another FunDay, which will be held on Feb. 15 at the same time, will give visitors the oppor-tunity to explore the contribu-tions the African-American community made to blues music. This event will also 
feature tours of the Tison 
Tool Barn and the Matheson House.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your foreign language skills, make friends, 
establish new contacts, 
strengthen your resume and intern abroad: All of these op-portunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on Feb. 4 on Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For ad-ditional information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or 
email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar
GIUSEPPE SABELLA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Car accidents are the leading 
cause of death for people aged 15 to 
24, but they may not be for long.
With rates dropping seven times 
faster than the rate of deaths by gun-
ﬁ  re, the top spot is likely to change 
this year, according to a recent re-port by the Center for American Progress.
Every 70 minutes, one American 
under the age of 25 is killed by gun-
ﬁ  re, the report said. 
Chase Summers, owner of Main 
Street Jewelry and Loans, said the 
gun culture is ﬁ  ne for responsible gun owners. The death rate is due to laziness, lack of safety education, mental illness and black market gun sales, he said.
He said he can refuse sale to any-
one he deems mentally unﬁ  t to own a gun, and he works with law en-forcement on stolen-gun cases.
Above the shop’s wall of guns 
is the Youth Handgun Safety Act, a document prohibiting the sale of handguns to minors. Federal law re-quires a minimum age of 21 to pur-chase handguns.
Joshua Roe, a 33-year-old UF 
graduate student and president of Students for Concealed Carry, said he wishes for a more compassion-ate culture, but a solution isn’t that simple.
“Maybe I’m wrong, and maybe 
sitting around the campﬁ  re singing ‘Kumbaya’ won’t work,” Roe said.MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Giuseppe Sabella / Alligator
A sign advertises guns for sale outside Best Jewelry and Loan on 523 
NW Third Ave. The owner commented on a recent gun deaths study.
STUDY2015: Guns could kill more than cars JENNY O’DONNELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Andrea Dutton and 
her team ﬁ  rst landed in the Seychelles islands in 2009, they were greeted by warm ocean breezes, high-end resorts and giant tortoises.
But she 
found there was more 
to these In-
dian-Ocean 
islands than 
sunshine  and luxury. Through her 
research, Dutton, a carbonate 
geochemist and UF assistant 
geography professor, found that fossilized coral on the shore revealed the sea level 
was 20 to 30 feet higher 125,000 
years ago.
Her research was published 
in a study in this month’s issue 
of Quaternary Science Reviews.
She said she did her research 
in the Seychelles because the sea level closely matches that of global mean sea level. Because the earth was also only a few degrees warmer 125,000 years ago, Dutton said this could have serious implications for the future.
The study found that the rise in sea level was due to the partial collapse of the Antarctic 
ice sheet.
“We’re going to have some 
thermal expansion, and at some 
point we’re going to run out of glaciers to melt, and there won’t be any left,” Dutton said.
Sea levels might rise even 
higher than the levels during the interglacial period because there is more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere today, she said.
Karen Vyverberg, a sec-
ond-year UF graduate student pursuing a Ph.D. in geology, worked with Dutton in the Sey-chelles in 2013. She said the ef-
fects might be seen in the near 
future.
“The sea level could rise 20 
to 30 feet starting in the next 
several decades when the tem-
peratures at the poles increase,” 
Vyverberg, 23, said. “We have 
to ask serious questions about building on coastlines and our water resources.”
Adam Heery, a 21-year-
old UF environmental science senior, said he appreciates re-search on rising sea levels.
“This study is a great step-
ping stone in data collection, providing a strong example to show society the consequences of climate change,” he wrote in an email.Professor’s fossil 
research reveals climate-change data 
Dutton
HE WAS HIT ON WALDO ROAD.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A 20-year-old man is left in critical condition at UF 
Health Shands Hospital after getting hit by a car Friday 
night.
Rude Jerry DeClasse was in the middle of Northeast 
Waldo Road at the 1200 block when a car hit him, ac-
cording to Gainesville Police. Although the driver tried 
to swerve around the man, he still hit DeClasse, whose body was thrown over the car.
Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer Warren Meek, who was 
driving behind, saw the accident. DeClasse was uncon-scious, and Meek began to perform CPR. Ofﬁ  cers ar-rived on the scene and assisted with CPR and the use of a deﬁ  brillator until emergency medical services arrived.
With a serious head wound and life-threatening inju-
ries, DeClasse was taken to Shands with a trauma alert, according to police.
According to two witnesses, DeClasse had jumped 
on the bed of their pickup truck prior to the crash. When they stopped the truck and told DeClasse to get out, he was “saying crazy things about God and other things,” they told police.
Earlier in the night, an ofﬁ  cer spoke with DeClasse’s 
roommates who reported him missing. They also said DeClasse was having “mental issues,” according to the report.
Police did not release any additional information 
about the driver. 
As of press time, DeClasse was still in the hospital in 
critical condition, according to hospital ofﬁ  cials.Man hit by car, in critical condition4, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
TOP LEFT: Stuart Bishop, 17, hugs his mother, BJ Bishop. TOP RIGHT: Stuart Bishop poses for a photo in 
his football uniform. BOTTOM: Stuart Bishop (right), poses for a photo with Will Thompson, 16, his best friend.
The program is estimated to cost $60 billion
pay for their classes will have to come out of someone else’s pockets.
“If the government is supporting 
(the two free years) ... they need to get the extra money from somewhere,” Sheremet said.
Caleb Redmond, a teacher at 
Windsor Christian Academy and a UF political science graduate, ques-tions the timing of Obama’s proposal when Republicans have the House majority.
“Couldn’t he have pushed this when his party was in control?” Red-mond asked in an email. “Many com-munity college students (which is a 
large percentage of the overall col-
lege population) will probably adore 
Obama’s idea, and when the Repub-licans oppose it, the students will be outraged.”
With the program to cost an es-
timated $60 billion over 10 years, according to the White House, Red-mond also questioned how the gov-
ernment plans to cover the costs of 
free college.
According to the White House, federal funding will cover 75 percent 
of the average cost of community col-lege for students eligible for the pro-
gram. 
States that choose to participate in 
the program will be required to cover 
the rest of the fees.
“With a climbing national debt, we 
already have a huge burden, and add-
ing to it seems absurd to me,” Red-
mond wrote. “In fact, it strikes me as strange that not only is our generation 
lacking a plan to repay our national 
debt, but we also seem indifferent to 
adding billions of dollars to it.” TUITION , from page 1
Family members said Bishop loved his truck, football and God 
Almost two weeks into 2015, the 
Williston family is missing a son.
Jonathen Joseph Stuart Bishop 
was born on Sept. 11, 1997, the son of Jonathen Bishop, 42, and Betty “BJ” Bishop, 40, and the younger brother of Katelyn, 20.
Stuart, as he was known, spent 
his childhood playing football, climbing on fire trucks and follow-ing his father as Jonathen worked with Station 72 of Williston Fire Rescue as a lieutenant.
“He was genuinely happy, he 
was genuinely loving,” his father said Friday. “He thought he need-ed to earn everything and give ev-erything. He was a wiser person than he was in years.”
When Stuart joined Williston 
High School football team’s defen-sive line and wore the number 64 for the first time, he was on “cloud nine,” according to Jonathen. A natural-born leader, he often led the team in prayer and kept spirits up when needed.
Family was just as important as 
football.
Stuart and his father spent their 
weekends hunting deer, digging, fishing and camping.
He was always a help to his 
mother. When she worked Christ-mas Eve, Stuart went to the store and got the ingredients for their traditional Christmas breakfast of sausage, gravy, biscuits and French toast.
“He never wanted to make his 
momma cry,” BJ said, stifling tears. “He loved his momma.”
But when he didn’t pick up his 
phone on the night of the crash, Stuart’s parents went looking for him. They rounded a corner and saw the flashing lights, the ambu-lance, the truck crumbled around the tree.
His momma couldn’t stop cry-
ing.
      
Reminders of Stuart were ev-
erywhere at the funeral.
Pictures of the truck lay along-
side pictures of Stuart with his family. The Monster logo, which he had hoped to outline in green lights on his truck, peeked out of a bouquet of green and yellow flow-ers.
A firefighter hat inscribed with 
his name balanced on top of the tires, honoring his eight weeks as an auxiliary firefighter and his dream of becoming a firefighter.
Members of the football team 
all wore their jerseys, alongside the most prominent symbol of the day: the number 64.
It was painted on the back of car 
windows, written on the back of T-shirts, displayed at the foot of the pulpit. And it was on Stuart’s chest when he was buried in Orange Hill Cemetery in Williston.
Stuart had even chosen a song 
played at the service: “Simple Man,” by Lynyrd Skynyrd. He had asked his friend Colin Garboski to play it on the guitar if he passed first.
      
In this close-knit town, the re-
covery has begun.
Williston High School set up a 
fund for the family. Alumni and students came forward to make shirts and bracelets in Stuart’s memory. Rose Fant, 45, whose son played football with Stuart, hopes to collect at least 200 written memories from people throughout the town and create a hard-bound book for the Bishop family.
“The way I look at it, Jonathen 
and BJ had a son,” Fant said, “but they gave a son to a community.”
Many are comforted by the fact 
that Stuart wasn’t afraid of death. In 2013, he returned from summer volunteering in New York and gave his life to Jesus, said assistant football coach and youth group leader Scott Hall.
His sister told his mother, he 
knew where he’d be.
A handwritten sign hanging 
over the casket gave viewers one more way to pay their respects.
“He will have his phone on him 
… like always,” the sign read. “He will carry your words with him for eternity. Please feel free to text him.”
Will Thompson, 16, a wide re-
ceiver on the team and one of Stu-art’s best friends, said there was one thing he’d tell Stuart if he had the chance.
“I’d just tell him I love him,” he 
said.OBIT , from page 1Tuition and fees at Florida’s most 
popular community colleges per 
credit hour for state residents
Miami Dade College:  $116.22
Santa Fe College: $125.33
Broward College:  $105.90
Tallahassee Community College:  $100.83
Valencia College:  $112.19
— Data compiled from college websitesMONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Gainesville Throwbacks
Jan. 15, 1969
Students rejoiced when the Rathskeller opened and prohibition ended at UF “with a gush” 
as the first beer hall opened up. “The Rathskellar committee wants to orient the university 
community to use the Rathskellar as a place to go for food, atmosphere and entertainment, 
and not as a beer-guzzling hall.”
Jan. 14, 1985The Hippodrome State Theatre faced dark days with a debt sitting at almost $100,000 and 
about 80 fire code violations. In order to keep the theater open, two firefighters kept a “fire watch” during performances. Then-Assistant Fire Chief Perry Kirkland said some of the ma-
jor changes would be expensive, but “we’re bending over backward to cooperate with them 
to mutually solve the problems.”
Jan. 9, 1992
The state investigated UF for improper storage of radioactive mixed waste, which was 
produced from medical and chemical research. The combination of radioactive isotopes and 
chemical waste was stored in the universi-ty’s waste storage facility off Archer Road, 
east of Southwest 34th Street. The univer-
sity used to ship out chemical waste for dis-posal within 90 days but kept radioactive waste for as long as two years to allow it to partially decay.
Jan. 19, 1993An officer said he heard a cannon-like 
explosion while investigating a homemade acid bomb explosion at 1 a.m. in front of Trusler Hall. The bomb was encapsulated in a two-liter soda bottle and made with 
household ingredients and acid. The re-
sponding officer found the bomb’s remains in bushes outside the dormitory. No one was hurt, and the culprit was never iden-tified, but similar explosions in the P.K. 
Yonge Laboratory produced a witness who 
told police he saw a “white man and two black men, all in their late teens.”
          LOCAL
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
In the peaked wooden chapel of The 
United Church of Gainesville, ministers 
blessed the now-legal unions of same-sex couples.
The church performed the marriage-
blessing ceremony in light of the recent leg-islation Tuesday making same-sex marriage legal in Florida. Thirteen couples from the congregation, also including heterosexual 
couples, had their marriages presented to 
God.
On Sunday, church members sat scat-
tered throughout the horseshoe-shaped rows of seats around the couples while the Rev. Andy Bachmann addressed the congre-gation from a lectern. Illuminated by golden lights, he opened the marriage-blessing cer-emony.
“Marriage is a civil right,” he said, “and 
love is a blessed gift.”
Of the same-sex couples blessed that day, 
most had been together for decades. For John Frachiseur and Luis Pedreria, a legal marriage has been 47 years in the works.
“They gave us the same rights that ev-
eryone else has,” Frachiseur said, “but we never felt we weren’t a couple, even though we weren’t married. The law is just in addi-tion to what we already have.”
For Pedreria, the only change was a men-
tal one. To finally not feel like a second-class citizen was a significant change.
“Neither one of us thought any of this 
would ever happen,” Frachiseur said.
Bachmann called the couples to join 
hands and recite line-by-line after him: 
“Beloved, you are my spouse and my 
partner.”
The couples recited after the reverend, 
some in a private murmur and some in bold confidence.
“I promise to be faithful to you, to love 
and care for you.” 
A tear rolled down the smiling face of a 
woman in a navy blue pant suit. She beamed 
at her wife, their fingers interlocked.
“In sickness and health and in joy and 
sorrow for as long as we both shall live.”
Members of the church stepped forward 
and rested their hands on the couples in prayer. Applause and laughter echoed after 
the last “amen.”
“We wanted to provide a religious, spiri-
tual context for a civil ceremony of mar-
riage,” said the Rev. Shelly Wilson, “to offer 
that blessing from the church and on behalf 
of God and the congregation.”
The church, which has been open to all 
gender identities and sexual orientations since 1991, supports the right to have stable, 
healthy relationships, so this blessing was a natural step, Wilson said.
As for Frachiseur and Pedreria, they have yet to get their marriage license. They aren’t in a rush.
“In my lifetime, I never thought I’d see 
this happen,” Frachiseur said.
UCG offers marriage-blessing ceremony for same-sex couples
Megan Reeves/ Alligator
Luis Pedreria, left, and his partner John Frachiseur, listen to the Rev. Andy Bachmann during a marriage blessing at United Church of Gainesville on Sunday morning. Pe-dreria and Frachiseur have been together for 47 years and were one of 13 couples blessed.
 THE JUDGE REFERRED TO THE ATTORNEY AS A “DIRTY OLD MAN.”
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LIHUE, Hawaii — A state appeals court affirmed a 
Kauai attorney’s harassment conviction for licking a for-
mer client’s ear.
Lawrence McCreery did intend to harass, annoy or 
alarm his former client when he licked the woman, the Intermediate Court of Appeals said in a ruling on Friday.
A judge found then-64-year-old McCreery guilty of 
harassment in 2012, calling him a “dirty old man.” The judge concluded there was no evidence the woman made up the story.
During the bench trial, the woman testified she hired 
McCreery to represent her in a child custody case.
“The witness testified that she went to McCreery’s of-
fice to pick up some papers and that, after McCreery made copies of the papers, he stood up, touched her hand, and 
said, ‘You look so good ... Too bad you’re married,’” ac-
cording to the appeals-court ruling. The woman testified she laughed and told McCreery she was happily married.
He then hugged her tightly and licked the back of her 
ear, she said.
“Quite frankly, these are the actions of a dirty old 
man,” Per Diem Fifth Circuit District Court Judge Frank Rothschild said at the time.
McCreery denied licking her and testified she initiated 
the hug. He was ordered to pay a $250 fine.Attorney’s ear-
licking harassment conviction upheld by appeals court
Alligator File Photo
Kevin Morris, 18, an electrical engineer -
ing freshman, walks with Beef Stew, his 
8-month-old iguana.
- EMILY CARDINALIReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Community 
college plan step 
in right direction
Good morning, Gators, and welcome back from what 
we hope was a good weekend. Between the first days of a new semester and the awful things that happened 
around the world this week, we all needed a break. Now that we’re all back in the groove, let’s start the new week with 
a controversial yet much less dismal piece of national news: 
President Barack Obama’s proposal regarding tuition in com-munity colleges.
On Friday, the president went public with a proposal to 
make tuition at community colleges across the country free for students who meet certain requirements.
Obviously, the plan was destined to garner criticism from 
its very inception. The “Obamacare of Education” — it took me about five seconds to generate that comparison — has 
already been assaulted on all sides. Like much of this ad-
ministration’s policy, the proposal looks beautiful on paper but is easily susceptible to reproach from those who oppose Obama’s policies by virtue of being his, as well as critics with motivations that are less dogmatic.
The typical partisan Republican rallying cry of, “It’ll raise 
your taxes!” has already rung out across the country. Ironi-cally, the president crafted his proposal with the help of Re-publican politicians from Tennessee. In fact, it was modeled 
after a program originally created by the Republican gover-
nor of Tennessee, Bill Haslam. States will be free to opt in or out, and will shoulder some of the financial burden. It’s an expansion of the federal government, but one that doesn’t en-croach on the authority of state governments. What we have here is a plan that will raise our country’s human capital with the support of liberals and conservatives alike, save for Tea Party-aligned politicians.
Non-partisan criticism of the plan is less focused on cost. 
Rather, it’s more focused on what the program won’t cover. Of all the barriers to success in community college, tuition is fairly low on the list. Expenses like living, travel and textbook expenses as well as poor quality of education are more signifi-cant obstacles to would-be degree holders. They’re also pre-cisely the stresses that wouldn’t be relieved under this plan, a fact which has education experts worried and disappointed.
Nonetheless, the president’s proposal would make it pos-
sible for millions of Americans to earn a degree they wouldn’t 
be able to afford or pursue otherwise. Included in the propos-
al is the requirement that participating community colleges would have to increase graduation rates and make their cred-its transferable to four-year universities in order to receive funding. This would not only improve an untold number of lives, it would also dramatically elevate the skill level of our population. While it will be expensive, enabling the educa-tion of our citizens seems like a more worthy and productive use of tax money than the $5 trillion we spent on keeping ter-
rorists out of power in Iraq. 
Look how well that turned out.
100 TOTAL VOTES86% YES
14% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Are you cold? Today’s question: Did you watch the Golden Globes?
NAACP bombing lacks media attention
You know all about the bombing that occurred outside 
of the Colorado Springs chapter of the NAACP last Tuesday, right? No? Well, the FBI is investigating the 
act of potential domestic terrorism after a homemade pipe bomb exploded but failed to ignite a 5-gallon gas container 
to which it was rigged.
The bombing happened Tuesday morning against the 
wall of a building shared by the local chapter of the NAACP 
and an adjacent barbershop. No one was injured, but the blast shook the building considerably — and the black com-munity even more. But frankly, the actual attack is not the main reason I was startled. The NAACP has a history of being the target of violence, and unfortunately this event doesn’t come as a surprise. What outraged me was the 
mainstream media’s failure to cover an event of this mag-
nitude.
According to the news site Think Progress, only one of 
the three major TV news stations — CNN, MSNBC and Fox News — discussed the incident on air within 24 hours. That coverage, which was not substantial, was seen on CNN at 6:34 a.m. Wednesday — 16 hours after the bombing. The attack the FBI is investigating as a possible act of domestic terrorism was so poorly covered that some residents of Col-
orado Springs weren’t aware a bombing occurred in their 
own city.
To understand the severity of this attack, and why it 
should have been covered more, let’s look at a timeline of events. The NAACP has championed for equality and prog-ress for people of color since 1909 — longer than any other civil rights organization. In past months, this specific chap-ter has been especially active, involving itself in local polic-ing issues and calling for prayer vigils following the Tray-
von Martin and Michael Brown decisions. On Jan. 5, the 
NAACP Legal Defense Fund asked Missouri Circuit Court Judge Maura McShane to appoint a special prosecutor and examine the grand jury proceedings that did not indict Of-ficer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown. Just 12 hours later, on an almost-tragic Tuesday morning, the bomb was rigged and detonated outside the NAACP’s building.
The investigation is ongoing, but it’s rather obvious to me this attack was an act of retali-ation as a result of the NAACP’s advocacy for justice in these re-cent cases. If so, such an attempt to silence them seems like an 
ugly page torn out of a book from 
1951 — when a prominent NAACP field secretary and his 
wife were killed by a bomb detonated in Mims, Florida, on Christmas Day. It’s deeply concerning.
Even more disconcerting, however, is the hampering of 
knowledge of the attack by not broadcasting it sufficiently. If a pipe bomb explodes outside of a particularly vocal chap-ter of a civil rights organization which has endured more than 100 years of threats, bombings and assassinations, it 
should be all over the news.
Our nation is immersed in a tense, racially charged con-
versation about police brutality. When the media fails to 
detail what could be backlash against unrest in the black community, they’re hiding the violence that people of color face when they speak out. Furthermore, if the media choos-es to provide extensive coverage of the violence by several extremists during the #BlackLivesMatter protests but fails to mention a vicious attack on the black community, they’re 
unfairly skewing coverage and depriving the nation of the 
complete story.
We’re trying to engage in meaningful dialogue to ease 
racial tensions and prevent future tragedies, but the media is depicting a violently outspoken black community while ignoring a cold-blooded attack aimed at silencing it. They’re presenting a one-sided conversation and hindering prog-ress as a result.
So, as the FBI continues its search for the perpetrator, 
this case needs to make its way to the spotlight. We have sat through weeks of coverage of the back-turning and tantrum-filled divorce between New York City Police and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, so we should be able to follow a bombing that seems to have been an attempt to kill members of the NAACP. All lives matter, and the media needs to report accordingly.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman.MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORChristopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Last week, President Barack Obama un-
veiled a proposal to make the ﬁ  rst two years of community college tuition free 
for students who uphold certain standards.
These standards include being at least a 
part-time student, maintaining at least a 2.5 GPA and making “steady progress” toward completion of an associate’s or a bachelor’s degree. This proposal is a noteworthy one, as it would help cover part of the cost for stu-dents to attend college and increase human capital in the U.S., something that is deﬁ  nite-ly lacking. However noble the cause is, the one big question that remains is how it will be paid for.
A program of this magnitude is bound 
to become the next Obamacare. It sounds good in talking points and in speeches, but in reality its cost far exceeds initial estimates. According to the most recent Congressional Budget Ofﬁ  ce Economic Outlook, from now until 2024, the cost of Affordable Care Act subsidies will increase eightfold and Med-icaid will double in cost, bringing the price tag for Obamacare up to $707 billion in 2024. Comparing that to the CBO projection of the cost of national defense in the year 2024, they will be nearly equal.
Again, making community college free is a noble endeavor, but so was the Affordable Care Act, and look at what its side effects have been: increased premiums, insanely high costs and a disruption in the marketplace. The same is bound to hap-pen with making community college free. Just look at the numbers.
According to the White House’s own 
projections, the average cost of tuition per year for community college students is $3,800 and 9 million people would beneﬁ  t from the program. Taking into account that the federal government would cover three-quarters of the cost and participating states would have to cover the rest, the cost of the program would be approximately $25.7 bil-lion each year. That number could be lower if you include part-time students and the fact that all 50 states may not participate, but it’s still a substantial amount. And that expense would increase if you also ﬁ  gure in the cost of Obama’s proposal for an American Tech-nical Training Fund, another government fund aimed at awarding college programs that provide accelerated training and accom-modate part-time work.
The White House announced the program 
would cost $60 billion over the next 10 years, a number that doesn’t seem to add up. Even being nice and lowering my estimate of $25.7 billion a year to $15 billion a year, the actual cost would be 
$150 billion; and that doesn’t even include inﬂ  ation and the increasing costs that we are bound to see happen with community col-leges. With more students enrolling, commu-nity colleges will increase their tuition costs to align with demand. It has happened with four-year universities, and the same trend is expected with community colleges.
Adding to the disingenuity of it all is that 
it’s advertised as “free” — but only the tu-ition is free. Tuition is only 21 percent of the total cost of community college. According to College Board, other costs for community college include off-campus housing at $7,705 a year, books at $1,328 a year and transporta-tion at $1,735 a year. Additionally, Obama’s proposal does not cover college fees, such as labs and campus health centers. Just like what he did with the Affordable Care Act, the president is trying to sell his plan as some-thing that it is not.
All of this might be worthwhile if the 
country gained some sort of value from it. Unfortunately, graduation rates for com-munity college students are at a shockingly low 25 percent among students who do not transfer to universities. Americans will fork over the money to pay for this program, but we won’t be getting any bang for our buck. The program pays for people to go to school, but hardly addresses any attempt to increase graduation rates, which is what really mat-ters. According to Thomas Bailey, director of the Community College Research Center at Teachers College of Columbia University, “Lowering tuition increases enrollments, and that’s a good thing — But cost isn’t the only barrier to ﬁ  nishing.”
Typical liberal policy will not work with 
community colleges just as it never works for anything. Throwing money at the prob-lem isn’t the only part of the puzzle. I would love to see a proposal from Obama that im-plements policies aimed at lowering costs of community college and four-year universi-ties, so that people can pay for it on their own without government assistance. The current plan will only inﬂ  ate costs over the coming years, putting a bigger burden on taxpayers with no noticeable results.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political 
science senior. His column appears on Mon-days.
Obama’s proposed ‘free’ community college has its faultsColumn
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org
As an avid consumer of 
news, I am noticing that the American media is not 
exactly as objective in their cover-age as they should be. Actually, 
that is an understatement. The 
mainstream news media seems geared toward a viewpoint that engages in speculation rather than the day’s news.
For example, there are a grow-
ing number of segments dedi-cated to the presidential race in 2016 as well as who will take 
leadership positions. Currently, 
the most talked-about names in the news cycle are Jeb “Not-Another-One” Bush and Hillary “New-But-Not-So-New” Clinton. Barbara Kellerman, a lecturer at Harvard University, believes the fascination with presidential races arises from cults of celeb-
rity, the drama of the electoral 
process and a sense of nostalgia. These interpretations, though, sound like excuses. This kind of news cycle always happens when a president is well into his second term, and Americans are feeling the eight-year itch. American me-dia need to slather on some lotion 
and get back to reporting on top-
ics that are relevant to the Ameri-can experience.
The attack on Charlie Hebdo 
received hours upon hours of news coverage, which makes sense given terrorist attacks have left a stain on America’s recent history. It’s easy to sympathize 
with the French people. But the 
day before the attack on Char-lie Hebdo, an unidentiﬁ  ed man planted a bomb outside of an NAACP building. Fortunately, no one was harmed by the blast. Most media companies that re-ported the bombing didn’t ac-tually cover it until Friday. The bombing of the NAACP building 
is an example of how white su-
premacist groups or persons are still actively attempting to sup-press civil rights groups, yet the bombing received little coverage.
Saturday, the terrorist group 
Boko Haram went on a murder-ous rampage on the city of Baga in Nigeria. But, like the NAACP 
bombing, this horriﬁ  c event re-
ceived hardly any attention in the American news media. Why?
It is because news institutions 
want higher ratings and more views on their websites. Stories about a bombing on our own soil and one of the deadliest mas-sacres in recent memory are not 
gaining much attention, because 
the American public wouldn’t be surprised to hear of massacres in Africa. 
It is my ﬁ  rm belief that if there 
is a story to be told, it should be told. The media have a duty to tell you what the important news of the day is and how it applies 
to individual lives. Focusing on 
people, no matter how oppressed they might be or where they are from, allows us to connect and sympathize with modern-day struggles.
Harold Joseph is a UF political 
science junior. His column appears on Mondays.Mainstream media 
has clear selection biasColumn
Harold Joseph
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Can You Hear the Bells A-Ringing?
Kelsey Grabach (left), a 21-year-old UF general business studies senior, talks to Alex Mazur, 21, and Mark 
Supinski, 21, next to Century Tower on Sunday afternoon during a 50-minute carillon concert. 
CAMPUS
SAVANA MORIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Horticultural Sciences 
Department chairman holds a 
unique position in the Internet 
anti-GMO community. Kevin 
Folta is the leading discreditor of the spokesperson for the on-line movement, nutrition activist 
Vani Hari — better known as The 
Food Babe — who’s famous for her campaign against Subway to remove an ingredient in its bread that is also found in yoga mats. 
He calls her claims “bogus 
science” and her methods “food terrorism” on his blog, and he has gotten the attention of health websites such as Well + Good.
“It’s important for students to 
know that she does not represent a scientific consensus or scientific point of view,” Folta said.
She uses her personal opinion, 
fear and misinformation to push companies into making unneces-sary changes to their products, Folta said.
“The chemicals that she rallies 
against are items that have been proven to be safe and effective in the context that they are used,” 
he said.
Hari received multiple praises for her public criticisms of the 
food industry and has an exten-
sive online following. She suc-
cessfully petitioned against in-
gredients used by restaurants such as Subway and Chick-fil-A, arguing that they were harmful 
to consumers. She also visited UF in October for one of the Dean 
of Students’ “Good Food Revo-lution” events. Folta said it isn’t right that Hari makes a profit off 
of her movement.
“The information needs to 
come from good evidence and 
sound science, not from some-one trying to sell you a book or 
someone who’s a celebrity based 
on the attention they get for bad information,” he said.
Shaun Plunkett, a 22-year-
old UF nutrition senior, said that people should be more con-cerned with developing healthy eating habits than the consump-tion of GMOs.
“(Hype over GMOs) is defi-
nitely a new thing,” Plunkett said. “I feel that it’s more people 
consuming junk food that’s caus-
ing this country’s health prob-lems.”
After The Food Babe’s visit to 
UF in Fall, Folta invited Mark Ly-
nas, author and environmental-
ist, to speak at UF.
“Mark is an example of some-
body who shows that you can 
change your mind, and it’s okay 
to change your mind,” Folta said. “I think he’s a great example of how we all should be thinking.”
Horticulture chairman stands ground in name of science
 THE BOOSTER ROCKET 
FAILED TO LAND.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CAPE CANAVERAL — 
SpaceX sent a supply ship soar-
ing flawlessly toward the In-ternational Space Station on Saturday, but the booster rocket 
ended up in pieces in the Atlantic 
following a failed attempt to land on a barge.
“Close, but no cigar this time,” 
the company’s billionaire found-er, Elon Musk, announced via Twitter shortly after the unprec-edented touchdown effort.
Despite the high-profile flop in 
the dark ocean, Musk said he was encouraged. The 14-story booster managed, at least, to fly back to the floating platform from an al-titude dozens of miles high.
“Rocket made it to drone 
spaceport ship, but landed hard,” he said in a tweet. “Bodes well for the future tho.”
He’s already planning another 
landing test next month.
Musk, who also runs electric 
car maker Tesla Motors, main-tains that recovering and reusing rockets is essential for bringing down launch costs and speeding up operations.
Until Saturday, no one had 
ever tried anything like this be-fore.
The modified barge — nearly 
the size of a football field — was positioned a couple hundred miles off Florida’s northeastern coast. The uncrewed platform was spared serious damage from the impact, although some equip-ment on deck will need to be re-placed, according to Musk. A recovery ship with SpaceX staff was a safe 10 miles away.
SpaceX’s primary mission 
was delivering more than 5,000 pounds of station supplies or-dered up by NASA, including 
hasty replacements for experi-
ments and equipment lost in the destruction of another company’s cargo ship last fall, as well as ex-tra groceries. Belated Christmas presents were also on board for the six station astronauts.
“Hurrah! A #Dragon is com-
ing to visit bringing gifts,” Italian 
astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti 
said in a tweet from orbit.
Without interfering with the 
$133 million delivery, Musk had fins for guidance and landing legs installed on the first stage of the unmanned Falcon rocket.
SpaceX launches for NASA, no luck“The chemicals that she 
rallies against are items 
that have been proven to 
be safe and effective in the 
context that they are used.”
Kevin Folta
UF Horticultural Sciences Depart-
ment chairman
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
What started out as an 
exercise gig in a one-car 
garage has evolved into a 
5,000-square-foot gym.
Sherman Merricks, owner 
of Dynasty CrossFit, began 
training with four pull-up 
stations in his garage. 
As the CrossFit scene in 
Gainesville grew, so did his 
business.
Dynasty CrossFit is 
moving from its previous 700-square-foot gym to a larger one at 3737 SW 42nd 
Ave. 
Two more gyms, or “box-
es” as CrossFitters call them, 
are also springing up this year.
“It was time for us to get a 
bigger spot,” Merricks said.
Visionary CrossFit, which 
doubles as a gym and art 
gallery, opened about two 
weeks ago at 716 N. Main St., owner Jesus Martinez said. The gym sits about half a mile away from CrossFit 
Gainesville.
Also opening within the 
next month is CrossFit Lead 
at 1022 NW 76th Blvd. 
Owner Caleb Whitfield, a 
former CrossFit Gainesville member, said there were only two CrossFit gyms around when he started training in 2009.
“All of a sudden more 
started popping up. It’s the fitness scene nationwide. 
People are getting away 
from traditional gyms,” Whitfield said.
Although the trend is 
picking up speed, the high-intensity training athletes go through to compete in CrossFit tournaments has sparked a controversial dis-cussion.
Nick Drago has been do-
ing CrossFit since he was in high school. The 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior is 
now a competitive athlete 
and coaches at CrossFit Gainesville, lcoated at 1126 NW Second St.
He said injuries are gen-
erally seen when training for competitions, not during regular day-to-day work-outs.
“I’ve never actually 
coached anyone and seen them get an injury,” Drago said. “The few people that 
have had little injuries here 
and there — it’s from train-ing to almost an extreme level.”
Paul Borsa, an associate 
applied physiology and ki-nesiology professor at UF, said beginners should ease 
the workouts.
“It places high forces on 
the muscle, which can be a 
risk for muscle strain,” he 
said. 
“That could be a potential 
danger for someone who is 
not accustomed to that type of exercise.”New CrossFit gyms 
open around town,focus on safety
“It’s the fitness scene 
nationwide. People 
are getting away from 
traditional gyms.”
Caleb Whitfield
CrossFit Lead ownerMONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Can You Hear the Bells A-Ringing?
Kelsey Grabach (left), a 21-year-old UF general business studies senior, talks to Alex 
Mazur, 21, and Mark Supinski, 21, next to Century Tower on Sunday afternoon during a 50-minute carillon concert. 
JUSTIN ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
One of the nation’s most popular pet 
stores has officially cut ties with China af-
ter thousands of pet illnesses and deaths 
were linked to Chinese-made pet treats.
Petco is discontinuing the sale of 
treats from China in order to stay true to 
the company’s commitment of putting 
pet health first, according to a release 
from the store.
The decision was made after more 
than 4,800 pet illnesses and 1,000 pet deaths were reported to the U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration since 2007. 
A majority of the claims were made af-ter pets consumed jerky treats, many of which possibly originated in China.
Kat Drawdy, owner of Earth Pets — a 
local Gainesville pet store — thinks the move is a great idea.
“Earth Pets has never sold any food 
from China,” she said. “They’re poorly 
regulated and we know that.”
Earth Pets, located at 404 NW 10th 
Ave., provides customers with natural pet products from ethical companies.
“We are really passionate about our 
animals and our community, and we 
want to make sure that nothing would harm them,” Drawdy said.
Sky Levi, Drawdy’s son and an em-
ployee at Earth Pets, also felt the move was responsible.
“A lot of Chinese companies do use 
preservatives that we have banned in the 
U.S. for very good reasons — all health 
related,” Levi said.
Courtney Sutter, a 20-year-old UF 
zoology sophomore and dog owner, be-lieves the move was positive for Petco 
because they’re taking ownership of mis-
takes. She said she thinks the reactions 
from competing companies will show the 
magnitude of Petco’s decision.
PetSmart, a major competitor, is al-
ready following in the footsteps of Petco 
and will remove all Chinese products by 
March. 
Moving forward, Petco will begin to 
use more American manufacturers and 
work with countries like New Zealand and Australia.Petco removes all Chinese 
pet treats from store shelves
WORLD
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PARIS  — More than a million 
people surged through the boule-
vards of Paris behind dozens of world leaders walking arm-in-
arm Sunday in a rally for unity 
described as the largest demon-stration in French history. Mil-lions more marched around the country and the world to repudi-ate three days of terror that killed 17 people and changed France.
Amid intense security and 
with throngs rivaling those that followed the liberation of Paris from the Nazis, the city became “the capital of the world” for a day on a planet increasingly vul-nerable to such cruelty.
More than 40 world leaders 
headed the somber procession — Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu and Palestinian Presi-
dent Mahmoud Abbas; Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov — setting aside their dif-ferences with a common rallying cry: We stand together against 
barbarity, and we are all Charlie.
At least 1.2 million to 1.6 mil-
lion people streamed slowly 
through the streets behind them and across France to mourn the victims of deadly attacks on the satirical newspaper Charlie Heb-do, a kosher supermarket and po-lice officers — violence that tore 
deep into the nation’s sense of 
security in a way some compared to Sept. 11 in the United States.
“Our entire country will rise 
up toward something better,” French President Francois Hol-lande said.
Details of the attacks contin-
ued to emerge, with new video 
showing one of the gunmen 
pledging allegiance to the Islamic State group and detailing how the attacks were going to unfold. That gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, was also linked to a new shoot-ing, two days after he and the brothers behind the Charlie Heb-do massacre were killed in nearly simultaneous police raids.
The attacks tested France’s 
proud commitment to its liber-ties, which authorities may now curtail to ensure greater security. Marchers recognized this as a watershed moment.
“It’s a different world today,” 
said Michel Thiebault, 70.
Illustrating his point, there 
were cheers Sunday for police 
vans that wove through the 
crowds — a rare sight at the many demonstrations the French have staged throughout their re-bellious history, when protesters and police are often at odds.
Many shed the aloof attitude 
Parisians are famous for, helping strangers with directions, cheer-
ing and crying together. Sad and 
angry but fiercely defending their freedom of expression, the marchers honored the dead and brandished pens or flags of other nations.
Giant rallies were held 
throughout France and major cit-ies around the world, including London, Madrid and New York — all attacked by al-Qaida-linked 
extremists — as well as Cairo, 
Sydney, Stockholm, Tokyo and elsewhere.
In Paris, the Interior Minis-
try said “the size of this unprec-edented demonstration makes it impossible to provide a specific count,” noting that the crowds 
were too big to fit on the official 
march route and spread to other streets.
Later, the ministry said 3.7 
million marched throughout France, including roughly be-tween 1.2 million and 1.6 million in Paris — but added that a pre-cise count is impossible given the 
enormity of the turnout.
“I hope that at the end of the 
day everyone is united. Every-
one — Muslims, Jews, Christians, Buddhists,” said marcher Zakaria Moumni. “We are humans first of 
all, and nobody deserves to be 
murdered like that. Nobody.”
On Republic Square, deaf-
ening applause rang out as the world leaders walked past amid tight security and an atmosphere of togetherness amid adversity. Families of the victims, holding each other for support, marched 
in the front along with the lead-
ers and with journalists working for the Charlie Hebdo newspa-per. Several wept openly.
“Je Suis Charlie” — “I Am 
Charlie,” read legions of posters and banners. Many waved edito-rial cartoons, the French tricolor and other national flags.
As night fell on the unusually 
unified city, some lit candles.
“It’s important to be here for 
freedom, for tolerance and for all the victims. It’s sad we had to get to this point for people to react against intolerance, racism and fascism,” said Caroline Van Ruymbeke, 32.
Millions rally for unity against terrorism attacks in France Since 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration warned consumers of a 
potential link between reported illnesses 
in dogs and the consumption of Chinese-made jerky treats.
 The majority of complaints involve 
chicken jerky (treats, tenders and strips), but others include duck and sweet po-
tato as well as treats where chicken 
or duck jerky is wrapped around dried fruits, sweet potatoes or yams. Pet owners should be aware that manu -
facturers do not need to list the country 
of origin for each ingredient used in their 
products.
 Top three brands of chicken jerky the 
FDA warns consumers against: Canyon Creek Ranch Jerky Treats or Tenders, 
Waggin’ Train Jerky Treats or Tenders and 
Milo’s Kitchen Home-Style Dog Treats.
— Sources from Petco and the FDAInformation to protect your pet: 
“It’s a different world 
today.”
Michael Thiebault
marcherMONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-16-14-9-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short walk to bus stop, large yard for fun/garden, fireplace, DW, game room, cent heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text/call 352-339-2342 GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com   1-16-14-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-13-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANT
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description.E-mail resume and day/year-round avail -
ability to info@thornebrookchocolates.com.    1-13-15-5-14
Sun Country Sports is accepting
applications for all depts., incl. rock-climbing, 
swim, summer camp, parties, gymnastics,
cleaning & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
1-13-15-5-14
Homework coach wanted for 7th grade boy with Aspergers. Tues, and Thurs, 3:30-5:30 preferred, Pick up from school or bus, home-work at library, drop off at home. $10/hour. E-mail qualifications to:ceramix@cerazone.net    1-12-15-4-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
EXTENDED DAY
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM 
IS NOW HIRING
ALACHUA COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
****ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES/ SPORTS - $10//hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
****CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS - $10/hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
Hours required - M,T, Th, F - 12:45-5:30PM
Wed. 12:30-5:30PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
For more information call : 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
1-14-15-6-14
Mechanical and Electrical Engineer Needed. Graduate student or senior preferred. Part time, flexible hours. Project list, NDA req, resume/CV, copy of DL, recommendations. $25-$30/hr. Call 850-508-9601, Dr Jones.    1-12-15-3-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14CPA firm needs general office help Tuesday & Thursday 0800-1400. QuickBooks, Excel, Scanning, & a Tax Class a plus--detail oriented a must. Email resume to soren@cpa.vg   1-14-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Holston, Alhassan compete in USA intersquad
Sophomore right-side hitter Alex Holston and freshman 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan trained with the USA Volleyball Women’s National Team on Friday.Three baseball players named preseason All-Americans
Shortstop Richie Martin and pitchers A.J. Puk and Logan Shore preseason All-Americans by Perfect Game. Players were selected based on a balance of past performance, 2015 expectations and prospective talent.Ronni Williams and the UF women’s basketball team fell to Missouri on Sunday. Read the story on Page 16.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
Florida basketball coach Billy Donovan 
credits the strength of Florida’s pre-confer-
ence schedule with teaching his team the hard lesson he couldn’t quite communicate to his 
players.
“I don’t think those guys came into the sea-
son with the right mental approach,” Dono-
van said, “and as hard as I tried to get them there, we were not there.”The list of necessary improvements was a 
tall order for a young team that lost four start-ers from last year’s team to graduation.
And as expected, the Gators struggled. Against Miami, against Georgetown, 
against No. 5 North Carolina, against No. 11 Kansas, against Florida State and against de-
fending national champion UConn — Florida 
struggled.
But the Gators are starting to buy in, and 
Donovan is seeing the development he has wanted since the beginning of the season.
Now riding a two-game winning streak, 
Florida (9-6, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) re-mains undefeated in the SEC after a blowout 72-47 win against Mississippi State (7-8, 0-2 
SEC) in the O’Connell Center on Saturday 
night.
Florida’s confrontation with its own weak-
nesses is proving positive dividends on the court, but the Gators aren’t quite there yet.
Florida’s most apparent flaw this season 
has been failing to show up strong for the sec-ond half of a game — whether they held a lead at halftime or not. 
The Gators first 
two conference wins, Wednes-day’s 72-68 nail-
biter against South Carolina and Saturday’s blowout victory over Mississippi State, have proven Florida is capable of securing SEC wins. 
Consistency remains the next challenge, 
however, along with a stacked schedule of ranked conference opponents.
“We’re just trying to take it one day at a 
time,” redshirt junior Dorian Finney-Smith said. “Everything that happens before to-night’s game, you can’t do anything about it.”
Donovan was quick to assert that the daily 
process is necessary for the team’s develop-ment and chemistry, with the Gators attempt-
ing to learn from the losses and move past 
them as Florida’s competition continues to increase.
“We are not going to be able to out-talent 
people, we’re not. We’ve got to become a re-ally good team,” Donovan said. “It’s got to be a team that the sum is greater than its parts and their focus needs to be not on how am I doing but how do I make the other four guys 
around me better.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 72-47 win against Mississippi State on Saturday in the O’Connell Center. After 
a poor start to the season, the Gators started out Southeastern Conference play with two straight victories.
Gators showing progress in early Southeastern Conference wins
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Doug Nussmeier has his hands full.
While Florida’s new offensive coordi-
nator has seen success at previous coach-ing stops — most notably Alabama in the 2012 and 2013 seasons — he is now 
responsible for breeding success in a 
Gators offense that has been stagnant for four years running.
Every position is up for grabs.“At every position on offense we 
want to create competition,” Nussmeier said. “You want to have the best players you can.”
One of those po-
sitions where com-petition is imminent heading into next sea-son is quarterback.
The Gators are 
sporting a young 
signal-calling corps 
heading into the 2015 season, with fresh-men Treon Harris and Will Grier the early leaders for the starting spot.
Harris took over the starting job fol-Nussmeier excited for 
quarterback competitionGYMNASTICS
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
The UF gymnastics team won its season 
opener, but it may have lost something — or 
rather someone — more important.
No. 1 Florida defeated Ball State by a total 
score of 196.925-193.700 on Sunday in what 
amounted to an imperfect but ultimately suc-
cessful first meet of the year. But the story of the day was star junior Bridget Sloan.
Sloan injured her ankle during the final 
tumbling pass of her floor routine, causing her to grimace in pain as she stood on one leg, struggling to summon the will to finish. 
She could not. The injury also prevented her from com-peting in the Gators’ final routine, the balance beam.
“Obviously we won’t know more details 
until she gets examined by our medical staff (Monday) and gets an MRI so that we can fur-ther find out in detail what really is wrong and then the healing process from there,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “We’re keeping our fin-gers crossed that it’s just a kind of bump in the road and that she will be back before the season ends.”
Faehn was forced to readjust her lineup in 
the final rotation and replace Sloan with Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto on the balance beam. Dancose-Giambattisto filled in admirably, scor-ing a 9.900.Sloan hits perfect score on vault, 
injures ankle in season opener
Nussmeier
UF Bask etball
SEE NOTEBOOK, PAGE 15
SEE GYM, PAGE 1514, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
UF tops Mississippi State
After struggling in non-conference play, the Florida men’s basket-
ball team has won its first two Southeastern Conference games, most recently a 72-47 victory against Mississippi State.
Above: Sophomore center Chris Walker dunks. Walker finished 
the game with two points, four rebounds and two blocks.Top Left: Freshman forward Devin Robinson, who scored 12 points 
in the win, attempts a layup.
Middle left: Alex Murphy (right) and Devin Robinson 
(left) defend Mississippi State point guard I.J. Ready.
Bottom left: UF point guard Kasey Hill attempts to block 
a shot by Mississippi State’s Roquez Johnson.
Bottom right: A bloodied Alex Murphy sits on the bench  
after being hit in the face. The redshirt junior forward finished the game with seven points and two rebounds in 13 minutes of action.
Photos by Andres Leiva and Jordan McPherson“It’s hard, I’m not gonna lie and 
say the team wasn’t rattled heading 
into beam,” Faehn said, “because there’s a lineup change and every-one’s concerned for (Sloan), and 
I was proud of the way we did re-
spond and for Bianca to come in on last minute’s notice and get a gor-geous beam routine.”
The rest of the team struggled 
to do the same, however, as Florida only managed to score a 48.825 for the routine  — its only sub-49 score.
Senior Rachel Spicer and fresh-
man Ericha Fassbender both fell during the routine and scored a 9.200 and 9.300, respectively, and senior Kytra Hunter had a close call before recovering to score a 9.825.
Leading up to the injury, though, 
the Gators performed well, finishing with the second highest opening-meet score in UF history.
The Gators performed best on 
the vault, scoring a 49.500 team total with Sloan putting in a perfect 10 on her first vault of the season. 
She has now scored a perfect 
mark in the vault, beam and floor.
Hunter won the 13th all-around title of her career, scoring a 39.475, with her best score coming in the vault. Senior Kiersten Wang, who did not compete last season after suffering two adductor tears in her right leg, competed in the vault and on the floor, scoring a 9.800 and 9.825 respectively.
Florida’s freshmen had mixed 
results in their first collegiate meet. Kennedy Baker scored no worse than 9.825 in the three routines she competed in, and Faehn said she was “just a picture of calm and con-fidence.”
Alex McMurtry scored a 9.850 
in the vault, her lone rotation, while Fassbender struggled, adding a 
9.725 on the floor to her aforemen-
tioned beam routine.
The Gators will now be faced 
with juggling their lineup on a short week, with their first home match taking place Friday night.
“This is what we train for every 
year,” Faehn said. “You can never count injuries or illnesses and ev-
eryone has to be able to be prepared 
and step up when they need to and be called upon, and that’s what we’ll be looking for, especially over these next four to six weeks.”MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs a floor routine during Florida’s win against LSU last season. Sloan injured her 
ankle while performing her floor exercise in UF’s 196.925-193.700 win against Ball State on Sunday.
Skipper wants running backs to score, Summers needs linemen
lowing Florida’s 42-13 loss to Missouri on Oct. 
18. He finished the year completing 49.5-per-cent of his passes, 1,019 passing yards, nine passing touchdowns and four interceptions.
Grier earned a redshirt during his first year 
with UF.
“Obviously, any time you have young 
quarterbacks, it’s difficult because it takes time,” Nussmeier said. “Everybody wants in-stant results. But the good thing is you get to build them from phase one.”
Skipper wants running backs to score:  
When Tim Skipper heard from coach Jim McElwain about becoming UF’s next running 
backs coach, he didn’t think twice about the 
decision.
“I was ready to walk here,” Skipper said.And now, the 36-year-old Skipper is ready to take over a Florida running back stable that 
contains a potential three-headed monster in 
Kelvin Taylor, Adam Lane and Brandon Pow-ell.
“We’ve kind of got a little combination of 
thunder and lightning,” he said.
But ultimately, for Skipper, the most impor-
tant attribute in his running backs is the ability to score.
“It doesn’t matter if he has to go 99 or he 
has to go 1,” Skipper said. “He just has that knack to get in the end zone.”
Summers working with small numbers:  
Mike Summers, the only coach returning from last year’s staff, successfully restructured a weak Florida offensive line in 2014.
Now, he’s tasked with doing it again.With the departure of four starters to the 
NFL Draft and three other linemen — Nolan 
Kelleher and Drew Sarvary seeing their ca-reers end due to medical hardships — Sum-
mers has just eight scholarship linemen and two with starting experience. 
“Certainly that’s an area that we’re going 
to have to address and we’re going to need to have some players come in and be ready to play,” Summers said, “but wherever there are concerns there are also opportunities.”
Summers praised the development of tack-
les Rod Johnson and David Sharpe and said their development is a key first step in devel-oping the offensive line.
“That’s what motivates you as a coach,” 
Summers said. “These guys have got tal-ent and they’ve got energy and they’ve got a whole lot of football in front of them. I’ve been so encouraged with their development and really where they are right now looking forward, trying to work with them and know where they can get to.”
Nord looking for a tight end: The Gators 
have not had a reliable pass-catching tight end since Jordan Reed left for the NFL Draft in 2013. Over the past two seasons, tight ends have been responsible for 30 receptions, 279 receiving yards and three touchdowns.
Special teams coordinator and tight ends 
coach Greg Nord plans to change that.
“We look for guys that can go make plays 
and the biggest thing about our offense is get 
the ball to the playmakers,” Nord said. “We’ve 
got to have ‘get it to’ players in our offense.”
Continue reading this story online at 
alligatorSports.org.
NOTEBOOK , from page 13Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto replaced Sloan in beam rotation
GYM , from page 13 HE’S THE 11TH UF PLAYER TO 
BE INDUCTED.
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
For the 11th time in school history 
and the fifth time in the past 10 years, 
the Florida Gators have an inductee in the college football hall of fame.
Wes Chandler was a rare wide receiv-
er who starred in a run-heavy offense for the Gators from 1974-1977. He finished his tenure as a two-time All-American and had 92 catches for 1,963 yards and 28 touchdowns.
“For me just to get to Florida and play, 
let’s face it, I was a high school running back and converted wide receiver when I went to Florida and converted back my senior year,” Chandler said. “That made 
it very difficult for me to make those ad-
justments but I appreciated the fact that Florida believed in me and thought I had talent to make those kind of adjust-ments.”
Chandler was selected third over-
all by the New Orleans Saints in the 1978 NFL draft and in 11 years as a pro amassed more than 9,000 total yards.
Now, Chandler is the president of 
the startup football league Major League Football, set to launch in the spring of 2016. Chandler even made an impres-sion on new offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier.
Continue reading online at 
alligatorSports.org.Wes Chandler inducted 
into CFB Hall of FameTRACK AND FIELD
KYLE BRUTMAN         
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
Coming off their first meet of the season, 
the top-ranked Gators track and field teams 
have already experienced how events can 
come down to mere centimeters.
While Florida was able to win the cham-
pionship in two of its four events, one-one 
hundredths of a second made the difference 
for the Gators in their two losing events.
Junior sprinter Antwan Wright finished 
runner-up to Kennesaw State’s Drew Dug-gans in the 60-meter dash final, a race that 
would be near-impossible for the naked eye to judge. Duggans finished in 6.73 seconds, while Wright finished in 6.74.
Sophomore hurdler Yanick Hart also fin-
ished in second place in the men’s 60-meter hurdle final. In a neck-in-neck race, unat-tached hurdler Eric Keddo finished in 7.92 
seconds, while Hart finished in 7.93.
Although Hart was not victorious, he and 
junior hurdler Moriel Pitt (8.09 seconds) set 
their season-best marks.
While victory was only a hair’s length 
away for the Gators in both of the men’s events, the same could not be said about Florida’s female competitors.
Senior Bridgette Owens, who broke the 
school and meet records for the 60-meter hurdle during the first day of the meet, won the finals in 8.11 seconds.
Sophomore hurdler Ryann McEnany ran 
around a hurdle mid-race and was disquali-
fied.
Junior sprinter Shayla Sanders took the 
cake in the 60-meter dash, finishing the race 
in 7.45 seconds, matching her result from last 
year’s UAB Blazer Invitational.Hurdlers, sprinters show 
promise at UAB Blazer Invite
“We’ve kind of got a little 
combination of thunder and 
lightning.”
Tim Skipper 
Running backs coachCAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
The Gators men’s tennis team started 
its dual-meet season on a high note.
With a combined 12 matches (four doubles, eight singles) played on Satur-
day, No. 13 Florida (1-0) defeated William 
& Mary (1-1) 9-3 on Saturday at the Ring 
Tennis Complex.
Coach Bryan Shelton considers this match to be just the starting point for the rest of the season and is confident that as 
the season progresses so will his players.
“I felt like our guys showed a lot of grit 
and we are very energetic throughout,” 
the third-year head coach said. “I feel like we just need to continue getting better and 
we got better today.”
After starting off with a 3-1 bout in 
doubles play, the Gators finished their 
season debut winning six of eight singles 
matches.
Six of UF’s singles players won the first 
set of their singles match, while four were 
able to sweep through all three of their sets.
The Gators saw strides Saturday from 
sophomore standouts Elliott Orkin and Maxx Lipman
In doubles play, the duo ran out to a 
fast start against the Tribe’s Will Juggins and Lars de Boer, winning 10-2 on the No. 2 court.
After a promising freshman year, Or-
kin brought his talents back to Florida this 
spring season. 
Orkin, who earlier this week said “the 
sky is the limit this year”, swept all three 
sets (6-4, 6-2, 6-2) against Juggins on Sat-
urday.
The 5-foot-8 Marietta, Georgia, native 
is looking forward to what the rest of the 
season has to come for Florida.“If you go through lines one through 
eight I would guess that not everyone 
played their best match,” Orkin said. “But 
we all have things to work on and we’ll definitely get better as the season pro-gresses.”
No. 34 Lipman went head-to-head with 
freshman Christian Cargill on the show court, ultimately taking two of three sets (7-6, 6-7, 6-3).
Two of the three sets between Lipman 
and Cargill went into a tiebreak. 
Lipman was able to pull together a win 
for Florida in the last set with a (6-3) third set.
“There were a lot of 
tough points out there and tough positions I was in, but I played re-
ally well and I was happy I was able to 
pull out a win for the team,” Lipman said. 
“We should be able to build on what 
we did (Saturday) and in practice and 
throughout the season.”
Florida’s next home game is Friday at 3 
p.m. against Troy University. 
“As we get ready for Monday, our next 
practice, we need to come ready again and utilize this week before we play on 
Friday,” Shelton said. “This team is de-
veloping a good mindset, they’re working hard and they understand that no days are promised.”16, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams attempts a layup during Florida’s win against Jacksonville on Nov. 
14 in the O’Connell Center. Williams scored 12 points in UF’s loss to Missouri.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Elliott Orkin returns the ball during Florida’s 9-3 win against William & Mary on Saturday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Sophomores lead Florida men’s tennis to season-opening winWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
The Southeastern Conference 
is undoubtedly tough this sea-
son, with six teams ranked in the AP Top 25. 
After a mediocre finish in 
non-conference play this sea-son, the Gators women’s basket-ball team needs to capitalize on games against mid-level confer-ence opponents if the team has any chance of returning to the NCAA tournament. 
So far this season, that hasn’t 
happened. 
Florida arrived in Columbia, 
Missouri this weekend looking for its second SEC win against a struggling Tigers team, yet left searching for answers after a 66-
47 loss on Sunday. 
Florida (9-8, 1-3 SEC) was 
hoping to correct the mistakes 
that doomed the team at home 
against Ole Miss on Thursday. 
But the Gators once again let 
a slim halftime lead turn into a 
monumental deficit in the sec-ond half. 
Despite a poor first half 
shooting-wise, Florida held a 24-
22 lead at the halfway mark, with 
the Gators coming out hot from 
the field in the beginning of the 
game. 
Brooke Copeland and Cassie 
Peoples opened the scoring with 
a three-pointer apiece, and Flori-da seemed poised to correct the shooting troubles the team has displayed recently in SEC play. 
But Florida would finish the game 14-for-61 from the field, 
good for a season-low 23 per-
cent, and Missouri (11-6, 1-3 
SEC) made sure to capitalize on 
the opportunity to get its first 
conference victory of the season. 
“We shot poorly and unfortu-
nately that’s not a new trend for 
us,” coach Amanda Butler said in a release.  
“That’s why it’s just so im-
portant that we don’t have those defensive breakdowns, in par-
ticular defensive breakdowns as 
rebounders. If you’re not going to shoot well, we have to have a heroic effort on the boards and we didn’t have that.”
It would be the Tigers who 
would get hot from behind the 
arc, using a barrage of long-
range shots to eventually pull 
away from the Gators after the 
break.
Missouri opened the contest 
2-for-12 from three-point range, the team seemingly unable to find a consistent rhythm in its 
offense. 
The Tigers came out of the 
break shooting hot like wasabi, 
going 7-for-14 from three-point 
in the second half, including 
their first 18 points in the second half from downtown. 
Ronni Williams and Peoples 
led Florida with 12 points each, yet Peoples shot just 2-for-18 
from the field. 
The 5-foot-6 guard couldn’t 
find a rhythm the entire night 
save for the opening minutes from behind the arc, going 0-for-11 from inside the three-point range. 
January Miller, expected to 
provide ball facilitation in place 
of the injured Carlie Needles, 
continued her shooting woes 
of late, going scoreless amid an 
0-for-8 shooting performance from the field.
For Florida’s defense, it ap-
pears that the team needs to hold opponents below 60 points to se-
cure a victory — the Gators are 
1-5 this season when opponents 
score in the 60’s against them. 
Butler has been exceptionally complimentary of the Gators de-fensive prowess this season, yet the other side of the game is a different story entirely. 
The poor execution of the 
team’s offense has left the eighth-
year coach searching for answers, 
and fast, considering Florida’s next two opponents, Kentucky on the road and South Carolina at home, both hold a place in the top 10 of the AP rankings.UF drops second-straight SEC game
UF Tennis“We shot poorly and 
unfortunately that’s 
not a new trend for us.  
That’s why it’s just so 
important that we don’t 
have those defensive 
breakdowns, in particular 
defensive breakdowns 
as rebounders. If you’re 
not going to shoot well, 
we have to have a heroic 
effort on the boards and 
we didn’t have that.”
Amanda Butler
UF coach