VOLUME 109 ISSUE 82 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gamesville Tabletop offers board game 
haven to locals
Tonight is Friday Night Magic at the store, pg. 9. Gators, let me be your dirty Dear Abby
Sex columnist Robyn wants your sexy questions, pg 6.  
Voluntary GatorCloud transition period ending Jan. 29
Mandatory migration will begin after that time, pg 3. Kasey Hill 
and the UF men’s 
basketball team 
defeated Auburn on 
Thursday to remain 
perfect in SEC play. 
Read the story on 
Page 13.
61/37
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  12SPORTS 13
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Smash Bros.
From left, Juan “Hungrybox” Debiedma, a 21-year-old UF chemical engineering senior, plays a game of “Project M” against Ed Fonseca, a 23-year-old UF digital arts and sciences senior. A variant of the popular ﬁ  ghting game “Super Smash Bros.,” “Project M” pits players against each other in 2-D ﬁ  ghting arenas.
 ONE ROBBER IS STILL AT LARGE.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police found and arrested a 
man Wednesday morning who ofﬁ  cers said 
was connected to a recent house robbery.
Amadino Rahim Ortiz, 21, was arrested 
after ofﬁ  cers recognized him running from 
a car parked suspiciously.  
Ortiz was connected to a robbery in the 600 block of Southwest 
Third Street, according 
to a police report. Just after 2 p.m., he and two masked gunmen robbed the home, taking several electronics, two guns and $300 cash. 
On Saturday, ofﬁ  cers 
arrested one of the men, 
22-year-old Tykey Taran Mendez. The oth-er two were not caught. But on Wednesday at 
about 3 a.m., an ofﬁ  cer spotted a gold Mitsubishi 
Galant traveling west on Southeast Fifth Avenue. The car stopped abruptly and turned into a parking space in front of an apart-ment complex, according 
to the report. When an of-
ﬁ  cer found the car, it was empty. The of-
ﬁ  cer then spotted Ortiz and Devante Lee Mitchem, 20, running away from a build-ing.
The ofﬁ  cer recognized Ortiz as one of 
the robbery suspects and asked him about the incident. Ortiz said he was involved in the robbery and was arrested on charges of loitering and home invasion with a ﬁ  rearm. As of press time, Ortiz is being held at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $525,000 
bond. 
There are no reports that Mitchem was 
involved in the robbery.
GPD makes second arrest in downtown robbery
CAMPUS
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
For the UF College of Medi-
cine, Tuesday was another day of 
high rankings — particularly for its residency programs.
Doximity, a professional net-
work for physicians, partnered with U.S. News & World Report ranked  ﬁ  ve of UF’s programs in the top 10 in the South. 
According to Doximity’s web-
site, more than 50,000 physicians were surveyed to collect data about program size, percentage of alumni who subspecialize and percentile rank of alumni-au-thored publications.
Among similar residencies in the South, the anesthesiology res-idency ranked at No. 2, and the neurological surgery program 
ranked at No. 3.
“I think we always knew that 
we had one of the top neurosur-
gery programs in the country, but this just conﬁ  rms it and pub-licizes it.” said Brian Hoh, UF professor and program director of neurosurgery.
The otolaryngology program 
— for ear, nose and throat care — 
ranked No. 9. 
The obstetrics and gynecology 
residency program, along with  
the orthopedic surgery residency program came in at No. 10.
Sama Ilyas, a UF biology se-
nior, said she is not surprised by the high rankings because the college itself has been consistent-ly ranked in the top 50 by U.S. 
News & World Report.
“I think this is great news for 
us as pre-med students at UF,” 
Ilyas, 21, said. “It’s exciting and humbling to be part of such an in-novative and rising institution.”
UF medical school residency programs ranked in top 10ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Engineering students and professionals dis-
cussed issues ranging from infrastructure im-provements to wearable technology Thursday afternoon at the Gator Engineering Leadership and Diversity Summit.
The event focused on leadership and diversity 
in engineering, featuring ﬁ  ve keynote speakers and 13 panelists, including Linda Hudson, chair-man and CEO of the Cardea Group; and Brig. Gen. Maureen LeBoeuf, retired director and head of the Department of Physical Education in the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
UF President Kent Fuchs gave a speech about 
the importance of women in engineering to a full 
crowd in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
“Historically, when it comes to nurturing 
women in engineering leadership, we in higher 
education have been part of the problem,” Fuchs said.
He said UF boasts more female engineering 
majors than the national average for universities.UF Engineering 
summit focuses 
on tech future
SEE ENGINEER, PAGE 4Mendez
 Ortiz
News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 82 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
70/45SUNNY
64/41SUNNY
66/39PARTLY 
CLOUDY
68/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
61/37
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Ballroom. Today, Price has 
more than 20,000 followers on YouTube, and his “I Knew You Were Trouble” cover has received more than 1 million 
hits. The night will also fea-
ture live comedy from Eric Schwartz, an inflatable sticky wall, free food and two show-ings of the movie “Fury,” starring Brad Pitt. The event is free to all UF students with a Gator 1 Card. Students may invite one guest to the event. 
Check-in begins at the Reitz 
Union Information Desk on the first floor at 7:30 p.m. 
The Hippodrome Cinema pres-
ents Shakespeare’s Globe on Screen: ‘Twelfth Night’The Hippodrome Cinema presents the first film of the 
Shakespeare’s Globe on 
Screen series “Twelfth Night” on Saturday. The film be-gins at 3:30 p.m. Tickets are $20. Patrons who would like to see all the Shakespeare’s Globe on Screen films have the option to pay $55 and ex-perience three of the six films 
or the option to pay $110 
and experience all six perfor-mances. The Hippodrome Cinema is located inside the Hippodrome State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete listing of films and additional showtimes, please visit thehipp.org.
Got something going on?WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Office of Victim Services seeks 
peer advocate teamThe UPD Office of Victim Services is actively seeking student leaders for the Peer 
Advocate team. This team is 
comprised of UF students in-terested in developing Victim Services on UF’s campus. Peer Advocates will have the oppor-tunity to educate peers in on-campus presentations, develop training programs related to victim services and assist with 
community outreach events. 
Applicants should be 18 or older. For more information, email a resume and letter of intent to annekcarper@ufl.edu or nphineas@ufl.edu. For more information about the Office of Victim Services, visit police.ufl.edu/victim-services/.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, The Women’s Student Association and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are ex-cited to unveil our Be a Game Changer Video Contest. Help 
educate UF on how to intervene 
to end sexual violence. And what better way to teach than by doing? So show us your best bystander scenarios in public service announcement video format, and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for submission 
is March 1.  For official rules 
and eligibility, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
GatorNights Presents Violinist 
Rhett PriceViolinist and YouTube sensa-tion Rhett Price will perform at GatorNights Friday at 10 
p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,  aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
CAMPUS
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
UF Webmail is retiring, prompt-
ing a voluntary migration process 
to the new GatorCloud email by 
Jan. 29 before the transition be-
comes mandatory in February. 
Todd Williams, UF Information 
Technology project manager for 
the Student Webmail Deprecation 
Project, wrote in an email the vol-untary period was created for an orderly transition.
“Students can sign up for the 
voluntary migration through a fairly simple process, and I would encourage any students who haven’t already to do so sooner rather than later as the voluntary migration slots are limited,” Wil-liams said.
Students can sign up to move 
by visiting it.ufl.edu/gatorcloud. Students will go through a process to determine their eligibility for 
the migration and select an avail-
able date. 
Once their migration date ar-
rives, students will receive an email to the old mailbox, notify-ing them that the new mailbox 
has been created and providing 
instructions on how to log in, Wil-liams said. Once the new mailbox is creat-
ed, all incoming emails will be sent there. The old email will be copied 
over to the new mailbox during 
the proceeding 24 hours. 
During that time, the the old 
webmail system will still be avail-able, allowing access to emails, but no new emails will go to that inbox.
When the mandatory student 
migrations begin in February, the process will be largely the same, but UFIT will randomly assign mi-gration dates, Williams said.
“We will certainly notify affect-
ed people of the date that’s been 
selected for them, but we won’t be 
able to accommodate changes to the assigned date,” he said. 
A mandatory date was set be-
cause everyone’s mailbox must be off of the old system in order to start the new system, he said. He added he expects that all students will be moved to the new system by the end of March.
More than 10,000 students have 
been successfully moved to the new system through the voluntary process so far, he said. 
Marena Laufle, a UF nursing se-
nior, said she chose to voluntarily transition to GatorCloud email be-cause she wanted to have control over the situation.  
She said the transition was easy 
because all the login information is the same.
“Personally, I love the new sys-
tem,” Laufle, 21, said. “It took a 
little getting used to, but now that 
I’ve gotten the hang of it, I think it’s pretty easy.”
Voluntary GatorCloud email transition period ending Jan. 29
After, mandatory switches will continue until March
“Students can sign up 
for the voluntary migration 
through a fairly simple 
process, and I would 
encourage any students 
who haven’t already to do 
so sooner rather than later.”
Todd Williams
UFIT project manager
Screenshots
Students and faculty can start their email transitions through a link on webmail.ufl.edu or by going to it.ufl.edu/gatorcloud. Once there, they will sign up and request a migra -
tion date between now and Jan. 29. After then, UFIT will assign dates to move emails from WebMail to GatorCloud, which is Outlook Web App based.4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Retired Brig. Gen. Maureen LeBoeuf speaks on leadership to a large audience of Gator Engineering 
Leadership and Diversity Summit attendees. LeBoeuf chaired the Department of Physical Education at the United States Military Academy at West Point and carried the unique title, “Master of the Sword.”
AMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
To become happier this year, UF student Edith 
Perez said that she will be striving to make more 
friend connections. 
Students around the nation have determined 
what will make them happier in 2015 compared to last year, according to a study conducted by Stop Procrastinating, the leading productivity website blocker.
The findings are based on a survey of 1,000 
students who created a list that included the 10 most popular activities, personal goals and events that they want to change in their lives to become cheerier this year.
“Based on these findings, it seems that our 
generation is moving toward a more positive light and away from the egocentric sphere we appear to be in,” Perez, a 19-year-old philosophy and 
criminology freshman, said. 
Students appear to want to spice up their ro-mantic lives in 2015, as “a meaningful relationship 
and/or to change partners” landed at No. 1.
Alicia Baker, a GatorWell health promotion 
specialist, wrote in an email that seeing this goal at the top was promising. 
“For years, there has been an increased aware-
ness of what is now called ‘hook-up culture,’ where people will casually make out or have sex with no relationship or commitment, and I think 
some students are emotionally exhausted by 
that,” Baker said.
Also listed was getting more sleep, seeing less 
war, having less debt, making more real friends, cooking more and even spending more time studying.
Dr. Frederic Desmond, a research assistant in 
UF’s Department of Psychology, thinks that hap-piness is a transient state and that it is not realistic 
or healthy to be happy all the time.
“Looking at the study, I see that students are 
not trying so much to find happiness in their life 
this year, but more of a balance,” Desmond said.Study shows student happiness 
resolutions for the New YearUF boasts more female engineering majors than national average
“As UF’s brand new, second-
week president, I will do all I can to 
continue this progress,” he said.
As Fuchs stepped off the stage, 
the first keynote speaker of the day, 
Intel Corp. Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer Kim Stevenson,  took his place to share how women have made significant contributions toward improving technology.
She said women have created an 
array of technology, such as wireless phone chargers and wearable tech-nology.
She held up her wrist to show a 
small screen disguised as fashion-able jewelry that shows the nearest restaurants, pulls up text messages and tracks heart rates.
The next technological phase will 
be wearable, she said to the audi-ence.
“You will be that next generation 
to bring that to life,” she said.
Stevenson asked students to 
leave a legacy and take on the chal-lenges of the future by working to improve transportation, public health, overpopulation and food re-
sources.
Jeremy Magruder, 27, said she 
has gone to every College of Engi-
neering summit.
Magruder, a National Society of 
Black Engineers graduate student coordinator, said leadership is ex-tremely valuable as an engineer.
The UF civil engineering Ph.D. 
candidate said she was glad the seminar was specifically geared to-ward leadership, women and aca-demia in engineering.
As a student, she said she has ex-
perienced a gender disproportion.
“I’ve never had a faculty member 
teach me in my field that is female,” she said.
She said she hopes to see more 
women and minorities in engineer-ing — starting with herself.
“Particularly for me as an Afri-
can-American,” she said, “I don’t see a lot of African-American wom-en who are in faculty engineering or who are in engineering leadership roles.”ENGINEER , from page 1
SOFIA COSTAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Free how-to-quit smoking class-
es are now available at Grace Mar-ketplace.
The program, which held its 
first session Sunday, is spon-sored by the Florida Department of Health Bureau of Tobacco Free Florida and the Suwannee River Area Health Education Center, said Sarah Catalanotto, tobacco program manager.
The classes are held every 
Sunday from noon to 1:30 p.m. at Grace Marketplace’s Empower-ment Center, located at 2845 NE 39th Ave. The course, which goes through the quitting process, is held once a week for six weeks, said Catalanotto.
Duane Gildea, tobacco treat-
ment specialist, is the instructor for the how-to-quit classes. He 
said the Area Health Education 
Center chose Grace because of the location and the people they are able to help there.
“(The Quit Smoking class) is a 
potential model for what a com-munity that believes in taking care of our most vulnerable citizens can do when people work together,” 
Gildea said.
To register for the classes at 
Grace Marketplace, call 866-341-
2730.Grace Marketplace now 
has stop-smoking courseFRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Russian-backed separatists sit on top of a tank at the check-point north of Luhansk, Eastern Ukraine on 
Monday. An attack on a passenger bus in eastern Ukraine killed 12 people Tuesday, likely dealing the final blow to hopes that a short-lived and shaky cease-fire could take hold.
WORLD 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
DONETSK, Ukraine — Rus-
sian-backed separatists announced 
Thursday they had captured the shattered remains of the Donetsk airport terminal in eastern Ukraine 
and plan to claw back more terri-
tory, further dashing hopes for a lasting peace agreement.
The airport, on the fringes of 
the rebel stronghold of Donetsk, has been at the center of bitter battles since May. Control over it was split between the separatists and Ukrainian forces who had 
held onto the main civilian termi-
nal. Reduced to little more than a shell-littered wreck, the building is of limited strategic importance but has great symbolic value.
An AP reporter saw a rebel 
flag hoisted over that building Thursday, although fighting still appeared to be ongoing. Ukraine 
insisted government troops were 
holding their positions at the air-port.
Alexander Hug, deputy head of 
an Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe monitor-ing mission to Ukraine, said rebel forces carried out artillery attacks from within residential areas.
“These attacks ... attract coun-
ter-fire from positions opposite 
and other directions, which leads 
unfortunately to repeated civilian casualties and damage for infra-structure,” Hug said.
The rebel leader in Donetsk, 
Alexander Zakharchenko, said the separatist offensive would contin-ue, and its goal was to recapture all territory lost to government forces 
last year.
“Let our countrymen hear this: 
We will not just give up our land. 
We will either take it back peace-fully, or like that,” Zakharchenko said.
If the separatists do advance 
further, that would undermine the chances of resurrecting a Septem-
ber cease-fire that laid out specific 
demarcation lines between the op-posing sides. The rebels’ disregard of that agreement appears to defy Moscow’s public backing of the peace deal.
The likelihood of any further 
negotiations looks compromised against the backdrop of continued 
unrest.Ukraine separatists claim victory in battle for key airport
ONE PULLED A POLE FROM THE 
GROUND.
MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writer mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a man at Grace 
Marketplace Wednesday after officers said he 
yanked a pole out of the ground and swung it at a woman. 
Just before 5 p.m., Brian James Doyle, 28, 
began arguing with the woman because he said she owed him money, according to a po-lice report. “I’m going to kick your 
a**,” he said to the woman. “I’m going to cut you.” 
Doyle then walked 
away and pulled a 4-foot-long pole out of the ground, according to the report. He walked toward the woman 
and continued to threaten her as he swung the pole 
around. 
An officer heard the argument and or-
dered Doyle to drop the pole, at which point he did. The officer then had to force Doyle to the ground after he ignored police commands, according to the report. 
Officers arrested Doyle on charges of ag-
gravated assault, simple assault, disorderly conduct and resisting an officer without vio-lence. As of press time, he remained at the Ala-chua County Jail in lieu of a $4,000 bond. 
      
A local man was arrested Wednesday 
night after police said he threatened another man with a knife near the entrance of Grace Marketplace. 
At about 11:15 p.m., Robert James Thomas, 
36, started arguing with a man — whom he told officers he had a previous argument with — before pulling out an 8-inch butcher knife, according to a police report. 
“I’m going to kill you 
since you didn’t go to jail,” Thomas said to the man before pointing the blade at him. 
The man backed away 
and called 911 before 
Thomas returned to his 
tent, according to the re-
port.
Officers found and arrested Thomas on 
charges of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. As of press time, he remained at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
Two arrested at Grace Marketplace for threats with pole, knife 
Doyle Thomas
Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
41 TOTAL VOTES71% YES
29% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThursday’s question: Do you think pro-
grams to help people stop using tobacco should be free?Today’s question: Have you migrated your UF email 
yet?Gators, let me be your dirty Dear Abby 
I’ve been writing this column for a year now, and I 
think it’s high time I introduce myself. My name’s Robyn, but I’m also affectionately referred to as 
“that one girl who writes those sex articles.”
Here’s a brief bio: I’m a journalism junior here at UF, 
minoring in theories and politics of sexuality. When I’m not writing about dicks for the newspaper, I enjoy 
watching cute animal videos, taking naps and eating 
brunch. My favorite beverage is whiskey sour, I take my coffee black and I enjoy skinny dipping in the warmer months.
So, why the sex column? Sex and sexuality are huge 
parts of everyone’s lives, even if you’re not having it, and I think it merits some serious discussion. Plus, sex and journalism have a huge commonality — they’re all about connecting with other people.
That’s where you guys come in. I want to connect 
with you. No, not in the way you’re thinking — get your minds out of the gutter. This semester, I’m hoping to get more feedback from you on what you want me to cover.
I’ve gotten a fair amount of feedback in the past. 
Someone once commented on an article, “Can you write about anything other than sex or does your life consist solely of getting plowed?” 
In response, no. I take breaks for food, showers and 
writing this weekly column.
I went to a party one night and someone thanked me 
for writing an article that convinced him to buy lube and a vibrator. I get recognized on a fairly regular basis because of this column. I can also credit my weekly ar-
ticles for a fair number of Facebook friend requests and 
date invitations.
Once, I went to a party — by far, I get the most com-
ments when I’m surrounded by drunk people — where 
someone yelled across the room that I should write 
about anal sex.
To be fair, I haven’t covered that topic yet because writing about anal sex, much like having it, isn’t something that you just wake up and do 
on a whim.
One of the questions I’m 
asked most often is, “How 
do you come up with article 
ideas?” 
Normally, I write about 
things my friends or I have 
experienced recently or timely subjects mentioned in 
other news outlets. This year, though, I want to take a 
different route.
I want to write about what you want to know. So, I’m 
asking for your input. Put on your thinking caps and 
send in all your wild ideas, burning questions, com-
ments and criticisms to opinions@alligator.org. I’ll use 
your submissions as inspiration for future columns.
I do have a few requests, however. Please refrain 
from emails like, “You should write about this dick.” That doesn’t work on Tinder, and it’s not going to work 
here, either. The ideal submission would be something 
relatable to the masses, along the lines of, “Can you write about having phone sex? My boyfriend and I are long-distance and are looking for ways to spice up the 
relationship.”
I hope that by doing this, we can start a productive 
discourse about sex. I look forward to the next few 
months and to writing columns that are more relatable to reader interests. 
Thanks for reading the Alligator and this column, 
and thanks in advance for the conversations I hope we have in the future.
Now get cracking on those emails. In the meantime, 
go America, go Gators and go home with a 10.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.Turns out we were lucky that it was just really, really 
cold last week. This time around, we got a hefty dose of bleak and rainy on top of the frigid air we’ve unfor-
tunately had to get used to. But if Florida really is as weird as everybody else in the country seems to think — see Jon Stewart’s ﬁ  erce description of us from Tuesday’s “The Dai-ly Show” — it should be unbearably hot and humid soon. To celebrate getting one day closer to that time, here’s your damp-yet-bitterly-cold edition of... 
Darts & Laurels
Craft beer, unlike wearing ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  ops out of season, is a not-
awful trend that caught on in the past ﬁ  ve years or so. Rather than mass-producing a product that tastes like liquiﬁ  ed, fer-mented Wonderbread, craft breweries work hard to create small 
batches of delicious beer. A single craft brewery produces hard-
ly a fraction of what giants like Anheuser-Busch do in a day, but together, the country’s 2,700 small breweries and their growing market share are starting to worry the giants.
Craft breweries everywhere rely on selling beer on-site to 
stay aﬂ  oat, which is becoming a wing of Florida’s tourism indus-try. This is important, as other than gator farming and construc-tion of private airports for Scientologists, tourism is our main industry. But the Florida Retail Federation is suing the state to 
repeal a law allowing craft breweries to sell beer. This would 
put scores of breweries out of business and all but guarantee no 
new ones would emerge. It’s clearly a power move by the big retailers and brewers to snuff out their smaller competitors, and they’re using the legal system for that. For that, we’re handing 
a sorry-your-beer-sucks-but-keep-your-hands-off-our-local-
business DART to the beverage interests at work in our state.  
Past the immediate aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo magazine 
shooting, the world’s political climate is beginning to readjust. 
The ﬁ  rst sign of this came with the arrest of Dieudonne, a French public ﬁ  gure who walks the line between comedian and anti-se-mitic agitator. Responding to the march attended by 1.5 million in Paris, he posted a Facebook status calling it “a magical mo-ment comparable to the Big Bang.” But he also said, “I feel like Charlie Coulibaly,” a mashup of Charlie Hebdo and the name of Amedy Coulibaly, who killed four Jewish hostages in a Kosher deli last week. Dieudonne was arrested a few days later. 
France has existing laws against hate speech and Holocaust 
denial for which Dieudonne could have been charged. Instead, the French government chose to prosecute him for “defending terrorism,” which is troubling because, unlike hate speech, this doesn’t have a concrete deﬁ  nition. Potentially any speech could fall into this category because it’s so subjective. Dieudonne is a terrible person, but arresting him for this sets a dangerous prec-edent, especially when he could be arrested for breaking other laws. For its hypocrisy following a show of support for free speech, we’re giving the French government a DART.  
Closer to home, UF astronomy professor Jian Ge just ﬁ  nished 
six years of research, ﬁ  nding scores of new celestial bodies. This includes 285 binary star systems, meaning he may have found the real-life Tatooine. For all his hard work, we’re giving Dr. Ge a thanks-for-keeping-our-Star-Wars-dreams-alive Laurel.  
And that wraps up this Darts and Laurels. We hope you have 
a less rainy weekend.FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Generally, when people think of Disneyland Park, 
they picture a fantastic time with friends and family. Sure, they may get sick riding around on the Alice 
In Wonderland teacups, but few expect to get literally sick, especially with the measles. However, that’s exactly what 
happened to at least 26 people who recently visited the Cali-
fornia theme park.
Measles is a disease which, until recently, was almost 
entirely eradicated from the U.S. Just three years ago, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported fewer than 100 cases of measles. Estimates for 2014 have seen that number rise to more than 600, and it’s obvious that 2015 is off to a rough start. Yes, the measles rival Prince for the biggest comeback of 2014.
Why are measles making a comeback? Junk science scared 
far too many parents into deciding against vaccinating their children. Despite more than a half-century of hard work by physicians and scientists to eradicate a highly contagious air-borne virus, parents decided that anti-vaccination crusaders like Jenny McCarthy were better sources of information than medical doctors.
The mind reels at the sheer insanity of that statement 
because it simply should not be true. Yet here we are, with 
more than two dozen people sick with a previously eradi-
cated disease at a theme park.
Believing junk science or simply using Google for infor-mation about your health is not how Americans should respond to more than a century of incred-ible progress in health care. Yes, millions of Americans are still 
without health insurance, and we 
still have a long way to go to end heart disease and cancer — the two top causes of death in the U.S. — but we’re far better off today 
than we were a century ago.
Yet every day Americans eschew medical expertise for 
the latest trend they ﬁ  nd on wacky blogs and from TV per-sonalities like Dr. Oz more seriously than their family physi-
cians. Regardless of your beliefs, that is both very wrong and 
very stupid.
The ﬂ  u is back with a vengeance this year and, naturally, 
some want to blame the vaccine. Yes, the ﬂ  u drifted from the expected strain and rendered the vaccine less effective, but the shot remains the best protection against the virus. Disagree? Talk to medical experts, who believe the areas hit hardest by the ﬂ  u so far this season were the same ones that had too few people receiving the shot.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to 21st century America.Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political campaigning 
graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.Measles comeback anti-vaccinators’ fault Column
Charity is an incredible thing. It’s a way for us to 
show we care for one another, and it provides resources and aid to those in need both domes-
tically and internationally. It has changed the lives of thousands every year, from building homes for Hurri-cane Katrina victims in 2005 to providing medical care to Ebola virus patients in West Africa in 2014.
Corporations can be large 
sources of funding for chari-ties. According to Forbes magazine, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. gave more than $300 mil-
lion in charitable donations in 2012. 
What I ﬁ  nd troubling about this isn’t the notion of 
giving to charity. I think that’s great. 
Rather, it’s the surprisingly common misconcep-
tion that philanthropy is somehow synonymous with 
corporate social responsibility.
Corporate social responsibility is deﬁ  ned by In-
vestopedia as “corporate initiative to assess and take responsibility for the company’s effects on the envi-
ronment and social welfare.” 
Corporate social responsibility is the concept that 
it is a company’s duty to mitigate negative social and 
environmental effects caused by the company. Sure, 
philanthropy can be a component of corporate social 
responsibility. A company can be a good corporate citizen by donating to charities that foster positive change in its surrounding community. 
However, if that same company largely exploits 
people, environmental resources or both in its opera-tions, it cannot be considered socially responsible.
An example of such a company is the department 
store chain J.C. Penney Co. The company gives to a 
number of excellent charities, including the Boys and 
Girls Clubs of America and America’s Military Youth programs. 
But it was also one of the retailers whose products 
were manufactured in Rana Plaza, an ofﬁ  ce building 
in Bangladesh that collapsed in 2013 after its unsafe 
conversion into an industrial facility. The collapse killed more than a thousand people and injured thou-sands more. 
Many of the clothing companies involved in the 
collapse pledged to help raise $40 million toward restitution funds for its victims. But after a year only one-third of the money had been raised, and J.C. Pen-ney Co. had not contributed to the fund, according to 
Forbes magazine.
I would like to clarify that I am not trying to de-
monize J.C. Penney Co. I am merely using it as an 
example of a problem that can be found in many cor-
porations. 
Chevron Corp. makes philanthropic donations to 
the communities it operates in, yet it refused to accept 
blame for an oil spill in Ecuador in 2011, despite the fact that it polluted a large rainforest and caused ill-
ness within surrounding populations of people.
Corporate social responsibility is not the act of bal-
ancing an ethical checkbook. 
Donating corporate proﬁ  t to a charity means very 
little if that proﬁ  t was attained by causing signiﬁ  cant 
harm to the lives of people and the environment. 
Perhaps instead of funneling money into highly 
publicized philanthropic causes, companies should focus these efforts inward.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics junior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.Corporate social 
responsibility and charity are not 
the same thingColumn
Namwan Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org
This fall, after signiﬁ  cant push 
and pull among the White House, CIA and Congress, the 
Senate Select Intelligence Committee published the executive summary of its report on uses of enhanced inter-
rogation techniques — considered by 
many to be torture — by American 
intelligence in the aftermath of 9/11. 
The revelations in the report 
caused shock and indignation around 
the world, with many allies and ad-versaries of the U.S. condemning the practices. The report set off a ﬁ  erce debate in the U.S. between critics of the program and its defenders, who maintain that using enhanced interro-gation allowed the U.S. to gain infor-mation on terrorist cells and prevent terrorist attacks.
However, this line of reasoning is 
a red herring. Regardless of whether 
torture is effective in securing infor-
mation, it diminishes U.S. diplomatic capital, lessens its moral advantage over repressive governments and weakens the inﬂ  uence of its condem-
nations and the rationale for global 
humanitarian intervention. These diminish American inﬂ  uence inter-nationally, which hurts America’s 
long-term security regardless of the 
short-term gain from intensive inter-rogation of terrorist suspects.
Multiple U.S. allies, including im-
portant NATO partners such as Tur-
key, have publicly condemned the 
CIA’s use of enhanced interrogation. Other close allies such as the United Kingdom have been heavily impli-cated in assisting Washington in the 
interrogation of suspects. Nations in 
both situations will feel burned by the U.S. and be signiﬁ  cantly less willing to support similar initiatives in the future.
For allies who worked closely with 
intelligence ofﬁ  cials on this project, the revelations will hurt their inter-
national standings as well. They will 
thus be considerably more cautious in working with the U.S. on sensi-tive intelligence projects in the future because they may be im-plicated and criticized for their roles in American 
actions. In either case, the 
torture program and its subsequent concealment and release 
weakened the integrity of America’s 
diplomatic relationships with close 
allies, hampering national security in 
the long run.
The rendition and interrogation 
program also weakens American 
diplomatic strength due to its private 
collaboration with regimes it publicly condemns. Among the nations that assisted the U.S. with the rendition and interrogation of subjects were 
Iran, Libya, Syria and Uzbekistan. 
These nations have poor human 
rights records and have been openly 
denounced by the American govern-
ment for various harsh and authori-
tarian activities. American collabora-tion with these governments in such unsavory practices as the rendition 
and torture of terror suspects under-
mines its moral authority.
Governments such as the regime 
of Bashar al-Assad in Syria — which 
has killed thousands of Syrians with 
artillery, gas, bombings, torture and executions — could even use the sup-posed precedent set by the torture program to argue against stiff pen-
alties from the U.S., and the interna-
tional community, and to reject criti-cism of their inhumane actions. 
This will also weaken the argu-
ment for international humanitarian intervention against regimes that en-gage in major human rights abuses of their citizens for the same reason: They can point to the CIA torture 
program as a precedent for justifying 
harsh crackdowns on opponents.
Furthermore, the torture program 
makes the U.S. seem hypocritical, criticizing the authoritarian and op-
pressive tendencies of these govern-
ments on one hand while cooperating with them on the torture program on 
the other. This weakens America’s 
moral advantage over authoritar-ian governments such as 
Russia, China and Iran. It makes our condemna-
tions of those nations’ re-
pression of dissidents and 
political opponents ring hollow in the 
ears of the international community 
and hampers our ability to promote 
human rights around the world.
The ostensible hypocrisy between 
America’s humanitarian rhetoric and 
its apparent violations of the rights of 
suspects and detainees will also em-
bolden the nation’s rivals. They will almost certainly use the warped logic that the American mismatch between rhetoric and action justiﬁ  es their own 
misdeeds, such as detention of politi-
cal opponents and destabilization of neighboring countries. 
By emboldening America’s au-
thoritarian adversaries and contribut-ing to a “culture of contempt” toward human rights, the CIA’s use of torture will hamper the goal of achieving a 
more stable and democratic world.
The American public remains un-
certain about the justiﬁ  cation and 
legality of the CIA’s enhanced inter-
rogation. However, regardless of any 
justiﬁ  cation, the use of torture hurts America’s image abroad. 
Correspondingly, this damages 
national security by hampering 
U.S. diplomacy, angering American 
friends and emboldening American opponents. Allies will either feel left out of cooperation on a major Ameri-
can intelligence program or betrayed 
by the publication of their involve-ment in these activities. Adversaries will be able to invoke the American use of torture as a warped justiﬁ  ca-
tion for their own oppressions and 
violations of human rights.
Thus, even if the use of torture did 
result in helpful information, it will hinder America’s longer-term secu-
rity objectives and make the country 
less safe.
Wright Smith writes for the Harvard 
Political Review. This article originally 
appeared on UWire.Winning the battle, losing the war UWire
Wright Smith
UWire8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Founders Day
Ianthea Mobley (center), a 20-year-old UF African-American studies junior, cuts slices of cake for 
passers-by at an Alpha Kappa Alpha Founders Day celebration event on Thursday on Turlington Plaza afternoon. The sorority was founded in 1908.
 HE WILL START APRIL 20.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
Starting in April, Saqib 
Mukhtar will be working 
with drones to monitor crop 
disease and pests as the new 
associate dean and agricul-ture program leader of UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-cultural Sciences Extension.
Mukhtar will be working 
with technology to ensure 
agricultural producers are as 
efficient and environmental-ly friendly as possible.
“The rea-
son we went 
with Dr. 
Mukhtar is 
that he has a very strong 
background 
in research, as well as 
program extension delivery, and he has some very good ideas for advancing the in-novativeness and entrepre-neurial side of agriculture,” 
said Nick Place, the IFAS Ex-
tension dean.
Mukhtar will be joining 
the IFAS staff April 20, leav-ing his post as a Texas A&M University professor in the biological and agricultural 
engineering department and 
AgriLife Extension service leader. 
Other associate deans 
of IFAS were paid around 
$150,000 last year.
Following a nationwide 
search, two candidates were 
brought to campus for inter-
views, Place said. The other was a candidate from Uni-
versity of Georgia.
“He’s really going to help 
us push the envelope in re-
gards to doing a lot more 
cutting-edge kind of things and helping us to really ad-vance the higher-end types of programs we do in all 
kinds of agriculture,” Place 
said.
Based on Mukhtar’s pre-
vious experiences, Place said 
he could tell that he will be a 
good leader and team build-er.
“(Mukhtar will) mentor 
and coach faculty to help 
them be most productive and 
making sure they’re meeting the most pertinent needs of clientele around the state,” 
Place said. 
Mukhtar said he is look-
ing forward to influencing 
change with his leadership and vision.
“(The position) provides 
the opportunity to hopefully make a difference in the ag-ricultural and horticultural 
programs,” Mukhtar said. 
Mukhtar was drawn to 
the job for the UF/IFAS Ex-
tension program’s connec-tion to Florida residents, he 
said.
“It has several very strong 
programs that have been 
developed by the thorough 
input from the citizens of 
Florida and very important stake holders,” Mukhtar said. “And I hope to be able to contribute to the emerg-
ing and existing issues in the 
area of agriculture and horti-culture to improve the lives of the people of Florida and 
beyond.”UF welcomes new 
IFAS dean to lead agriculture program
TRENDS
 SOME DELIVERY DRIVERS PAY THEIR 
OWN GAS EXPENSES.
NICOLETTE AMICO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cheaper gas is having a positive impact on some 
local restaurants and businesses.
As of press time, the lowest gas price in 
Gainesville is $2.06 at Murphy Express, located at 
6360 NW 13th St. near Northwest 23rd Street. The steadily decreasing prices have cheapened costs 
ranging from food suppliers to delivery expenses. 
Even though menu prices aren’t dropping, cus-
tomers are benefitting.
“We can be a bit more generous with our por-
tions,” said Coleen Tobin, a manager of Harvest Thyme Cafe downtown. “We can offer different 
specialty items because we can spend the extra money.”
She said seasonal produce prices have dropped, 
and the extra charge that comes with delivering products has decreased as well.
Delivery drivers are also benefitting even though 
food delivery prices have not seen a drop.
“It has definitely improved driver morale,” said 
Jackson Bodiford, a manager and dispatcher for Gainesville2Go.com. “Our drivers love the low gas 
prices.”
Gainesville2Go pays its drivers a set wage, but 
drivers are responsible for their own gas expenses, 
so they’ve been saving money.
Bodiford said Gainesville2Go could invest in 
other business models if gas prices remain low. However, he predicts prices will rise again by sum-
mer.
“Lower gas prices really just means our drivers 
are making more money and are happier,” he said.Recent lower gas prices benefit 
delivery drivers, local restaurants
“We can be a bit more generous with our 
portions. We can offer different specialty 
items because we can spend the extra 
money.”
Coleen Tobin
Harvest Thyme Cafe managerMukhtar
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer ichoen@alligator.org
Callie Williams has passion for 
two things: her 18-year-old son, 
Grey, and Dungeons & Dragons.
Williams combined her two pas-
sions and launched Gamesville Ta-
bletop in November.
Located at 4211 NW 16th Blvd., 
Gamesville was originally a place 
for Grey Williams and his home-school group to meet and play board games. Callie Williams figured sell-ing games would be a perfect way to fund the space.
But the business took off, and 
Callie Williams’s said her outlook changed.
“Now, I’m just passionate about 
games,” the 44-year-old Gainesville resident said.
Dozens of board games line the 
shelves of the store, ranging from Monopoly to Pathfinder to Settlers of Catan  and everything in between.
Look around, and you’ll see hun-
dreds of playing cards propped up in glass shelves, as well as dragon figurines and other fan merchandise lining the walls of the store’s front room.
Trek a bit farther into the back 
room and you’ll find the main rea-son for the store’s popularity.
That’s where Gamesville hosts 
gaming events every day except Monday where children, students and residents of all ages gather around tables to play their favorite board games.
Since its opening, the shop’s busi-
est days have been on the weekends, Callie Williams said. But lately, busi-ness has increased. She said on Sat-urday, every seat was filled.
Each day of the week is dedi-
cated to a different gaming theme: Wednesdays are reserved for role-playing games and Thursdays are for Grey Williams’ home-school group. Stop by on a Friday for Fri-day Night Magic and be greeted by a store full of eager gamers playing magic-themed games. On Saturday at 6 p.m., the Gainesville Pathfind-er Society will meet, followed by a night of war-miniature tabletop games.
“It’s been a good mix of every-
one,” Callie Williams said of cus-tomers. 
She added she’s proud to offer a 
haven where gamers who may not have anywhere else to go can come together.
“So far, that’s been one of the fa-
vorite things. People will say to me, ‘Wow, this is just what we needed. 
I’m so glad you’re here,’” Callie Wil-
liams said. “It’s been awesome.”
Grey Williams, a Santa Fe College 
freshman, has inherited his mother’s enthusiasm for gaming. His mother introduced him to Dungeons & Dragons when he was 9 years old as a means to keep his mind sharp dur-ing home schooling.
“I like to say I was practically 
raised by Dungeons & Dragons,” Grey Williams said.
About a decade later, gaming has 
transformed into a lifestyle for him.
“Before the game store opened, 
I heard people saying stuff like, X is my life, baseball is my life, cook-ing is my life, something is my life. 
I always thought that’s weird. I 
wouldn’t really want my life to be anything,” he said. “But then this game store opened. If I had to pick one thing to be my life, this would be it.”FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Robert Kagel, a 21-year-old UF information systems senior, reaches across the table to move a game-
piece for his character, Kahw the Tengu. Kagel was playing a campaign from the tabletop game Path-finders, in which players adopt personas and play through dungeons represented by table mats.
Gamesville Tabletop offers board game haven to locals
WORLD
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PARIS — Hackers have tar-
geted about 19,000 French web-
sites since a rampage by Islamic extremists left 20 dead last week, a top French cyberdefense offi-
cial said Thursday as the presi-
dent tried to calm the nation’s inflamed religious tensions.
France is on edge since last 
week’s attacks, which began Jan. 7 at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. The paper, repeatedly threat-
ened for its caricatures of the 
Muslim Prophet Muhammad, 
buried several of its slain staff members Thursday even as it reprinted another weekly issue with Muhammad on its cover.
Calling it an unprecedented 
surge, Adm. Arnaud Coustil-liere, head of cyberdefense for the French military, said about 
19,000 French websites have 
faced cyberattacks in recent days, some carried out by well-known Islamic hacker groups.The attacks, mostly relatively 
minor denial-of-service attacks, 
hit sites as varied as military reg-
iments to pizza shops, but none appeared to have caused serious damage, he said. 
Military authorities launched 
round-the-clock surveillance to protect the government sites still coming under attack.
“This is the first time that a 
country has been faced with such a large wave,” Coustilliere said. 
Among the groups suspected 
of launching the attacks, French officials named MECA: Middle East Cyber Army, Fallaga team 
and Cyber Caliphate.
According to Arbor Net-
works, a private company that 
monitors Internet threats, France was the target of 1,070 denial-of-service attacks in the past 24 hours alone. 
That’s about a quarter as many 
as the U.S., but the U.S. hosts 30 times as many websites.
Coustilliere called the attacks 
a response to the massive dem-onstrations against terrorism that drew 3.7 million people into the streets Sunday across France. 
He pointed to “structured 
groups” that used tactics like posting symbols of jihadist groups on companies’ websites.
France sees 19,000 cyberattacks since last terror rampage 
“This is the first time that 
a country has been faced 
with such a large wave.”
Arnaud Coustilliere
Head of cyberdefense for the French 
militaryFRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1600/mo 3413 NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com 352-339-2342    1-16-14-9-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short walk to bus stop, large yard for fun/garden, fireplace, DW, game room, cent heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text/call 352-339-2342 GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com   1-16-14-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-16-15-8-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in 
Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-
ganization. Must have a background in ed 
or a student in the college of ed.
email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   
1-20-14-10-14
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the job experience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-16-15-8-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is looking for a JV Girls Tennis Coach. Practices start 1/12 and season ends 3/28. Qualified ap-plicants with previous tennis experience as a player or coach should send resume to jmalloy@oakhall.org.    1-16-15-7-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14St. Johns River Water Management District is actively seeking multi-talented appli -
cants for the position of Creative Services Specialist. Successful applicant will create web pages, design informational graphics and presentations, and produce videos. For more information and to apply, visit www.floridaswater.com. EEO/DFWP/TFWP/VET PREF    1-20-15-5-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
Investor seeks student partner / webde -
signer to help build web-based business in exchange for % of business. Willing to cover expenses. Must be positive. jholifield1@gmail.com    1-16-15-1-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    1-16-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Training! 3 Week Program. Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators.  Lifetime Job Placement Assistance with National Certifications.  VA Benefits Eligible! (866) 912-0572    1-16-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Home most weekends. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    1-16-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Professional Editing Service.
Dr. Trad Nogueira-Godsey is offering his ser-vices to help you produce the best version of your writing. Visit www.tradgodsey.com for details or contact him directly attradgodsey@gmail.com    1-16-15-2-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    1-16-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679    1-16-1-15
Aircraft Dispatch Careers start here – Just 10 weeks training for FAA certification. Working for airlines, airports, cargo and more. Call AIM free info 866-314-5838    1-16-1-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
MEDICAL BILLING TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a Medical Office Assistant! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! Online training can get you job ready! HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! 1-888-528-5547    1-16-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    1-16-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Open House
Want to work for alligatorSports this semester? Then 
stop by our open house today from 2-5 p.m. Our ofﬁ  ce is located at 1105 W. University Ave.Gordon Watson will return to the singles lineup when UF plays Troy today. Read the story on Page 16.
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
The Gators are surging at the 
right time.
After opening up Southeastern 
Conference play with back-to-back wins, Florida secured win No. 3 on Thursday, defeating Auburn 75-55 
in the O’Connell Center.
With the win, the Gators (10-6, 
3-0 SEC) are now one of two teams 
undefeated in SEC play,  joining No. 1 Kentucky as the only teams 
that are still perfect in conference 
play.
Kasey Hill had arguably one 
of his best nights of the season on 
Thursday.
The sophomore point guard 
notched 12 points, ﬁ  ve rebounds, seven assists and three steals in a team-high 31 minutes played. 
The win marked just the third 
time this season Hill scored at least 
10 points and his ﬁ  rst since Flori-
da’s loss to Florida State on Dec. 30.
For the second consecutive game 
in conference play, Florida held the lead for the entirety of the game.
But while the Gators managed 
to stay ahead of the Tigers (9-7, 1-2 SEC) and clinch their 24th consecu-tive conference win, they found themselves in early foul trouble yet again. 
Florida committed 20 personal 
fouls on Thursday.
“Last year and the two or three 
previous years, I felt like we were one of the best teams in the coun-try and playing defense without fouling,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
“We are fouling at an astronomical 
and alarming rate. I mean it’s 20 
fouls every game.” 
Fouls were such a problem 
that starter Dorian Finney-Smith’s 
minutes on the court were limited 
when he committed two fouls early 
in the ﬁ  rst half. 
But the redshirt junior forward 
still ended the game leading the 
team with 14 points though he went just 4-for-10 in ﬁ  eld goals in 
24 minutes.
In starting freshman guard 
Chris Chiozza’s 25 minutes played 
he totaled nine points and two as-sists. 
The Gators altogether were 12 
for 18 on free throws — consistent with 11 made free throws they’ve been averaging. 
Jon Horford, playing in his ﬁ  rst 
game since being suspended on Jan. 7 for conduct detrimental to the team, played 10 minutes off the bench, scoring ﬁ  ve points and rack-ing up four personal fouls.
Redshirt junior guard Eli Carter 
scored 12 points off the bench with three assists and two rebounds. 
Hill credits Florida’s success to 
10 players scoring for the Gators and 36 points off the bench.
“When 10 guys score, I mean 
we have a good chance of winning the game cause they can’t just key on one person so it allows space for everybody else on the court,” Hill said. 
“We move the ball and play to-
gether when a lot of people score.”
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Florida played arguably its best game 
this season, its ﬁ  rst against a ranked op-
ponent, but the Gators women’s basket-ball team couldn’t overtake Kentucky, ultimately falling 62-56 in Lexington. 
The Gators had multiple opportuni-
ties to pull away from the No. 10 Wild-
cats, who were missing leading playmak-
er Janee Thompson. 
Despite playing without Thompson, 
who suffered a dislocated left ankle and broken ﬁ  bula Sunday 
against No. 1 South Carolina, the Wildcats 
found a way to make 
up for her missing production, receiving 20 points from Makay-la Epps and 14 points from Linnae Harper to outlast the visiting 
Gators. 
Kentucky (15-3, 4-1 Southeastern JOHNSON’S JOURNAL
The Florida Gators are do-ing what Billy Donovan expressed so many doubts 
about - they’re learning how to win. 
But, like everything else, it’s 
a process. 
After entering Southeastern 
Conference play one game over .500, the Gators have quickly registered only their second win-streak this season.
It’s not just that they’ve won, but more 
importantly how they’ve won these last three 
games against lesser opponents that should 
give you an ounce of optimism as Florida gets into the meat of the SEC.
UF started strong against South Carolina 
on the road, and after opening on a shooting tear, the game calmed down. Florida had to ﬁ  nd a way to win by making 10 of 11 free throws in the game’s last 2:47 to put South Carolina away, some-thing they didn’t do in the previ-ous game against UConn.
Then in the home opener 
against Mississippi State, Flor-ida got the Bulldogs down and kept them there, stepping on their throat and burying an of-fensively inept opponent. The 
same thing happened Thursday in the 75-55 victory over a similarly scoring-challenged Auburn team.
If you’re ready to pencil them into an 
NCAA tournament bracket I beg you, use caution.
They’re getting “there” —  that place 
where you feel good about them as a com-plete product — but there are still lapses in UF improving, but not there yetEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill drives down the court during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn on Thursday in the 
O’Connell Center. The sophomore point guard scored 12 points in the win.
Amanda Butler
Florida defeats Auburn to remain undefeated in SEC play
Hill scored 12 points
“When 10 guys score, 
I mean we have a good 
chance of winning the game 
cause they can’t just key 
on one person so it allows 
space for everybody else on 
the court. We move the ball 
and play together when a lot 
of people score”
Kasey Hill
UF point guard
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15
RichardJohnson
twitter: @RagjUF
SEE JOURNAL, PAGE 15Gators fall to Wildcats in 
close game on the roadWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Quotable
“We have three days to get ready for the number one team 
in the country. What a great opportunity.” 
UF women’s basketball coach Amanda Butler 
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
For the UF gymnastics team, 
life without Bridget Sloan begins 
tonight.
No. 3 Florida (1-0) hosts No. 21 
Auburn (1-0) at 6:45 p.m. in the 
O’Connell Center, marking the 
ﬁ  rst time Gator fans will get to see the team compete this season.
However, the Gators will be 
without star junior and fan-favor-
ite Sloan, who is out indeﬁ  nitely 
with a sprained ankle she suffered 
in Florida’s season opener against Ball State.
Sloan’s absence leaves some 
big shoes to ﬁ  ll, so big in fact that the Gators plan on using multiple gymnasts to ﬁ  ll their injured lead-er’s role.
Freshman Kennedy Baker is ex-
pected to compete in all-around, adding ﬂ  oor to the other three ro-tations she competed in last week. 
Coach Rhonda Faehn said ju-
nior Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto, who replaced Sloan on the balance beam Sunday, has a good chance to keep that spot against Auburn. 
Faehn also said she was look-
ing at freshman Alex McMurtry, who competed on the vault during Florida’s win on Saturday, as a po-tential ﬁ  ll-in on beam as well.
“There’s no doubt in anyone’s 
mind that we’re gonna be able to pick it up as a team and ﬁ  ll in Sloan’s spot,” Dancose-Giambat-tisto said. “Rhonda asked us at the end of the meet who wants to ﬁ  ll in Sloan’s spot and who thinks that they can score as high as Sloan’s 
scores, because she’s obviously a 
very important component of the team. Everyone raised their hand.
“Everyone’s very conﬁ  dent in their abilities to raise up for the oc-casion and just perform like we do in the gym.”
Baker is also someone who 
could begin to ﬁ  ll Sloan’s role as the face of the program. 
She had a successful ﬁ  rst meet 
against Ball State, scoring 9.825 or higher in her three rotations, and Faehn raved about how impressed she was with the freshman’s per-formance - particularly the compo-sure she showed in such a pressur-ized situation.
And although Baker has a 
much different demeanor than Sloan, Faehn believes she still has a competitive spirit that fans will embrace.
“I would expect the same,” 
Faehn said of how she expects Baker to handle the Auburn meet. “She is a very calm, composed competitor. … When she’s on the 
equipment, it’s all business, and 
it’ll be hard pressed to see her crack a smile, but we’re working on it.”
“She is a great competitor and 
I’m excited to see her ﬂ  oor routine because you will see her person-ality and her attitude come out, which will be nice.”
Baker and her teammates will 
also get their ﬁ  rst taste of being on live television for a regular season meet Friday. 
The SEC Network will air the 
meet as its ﬁ  rst gymnastics broad-cast of the year.
“It’s gonna be a little different 
to have shorter rotations and times 
in between,” junior Bridgette Ca-
quatto said, “so we’ve practiced it in the gym and it’s gonna be a little more rushed, but it’ll be fun altogether.”14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto competes on the uneven bars during Florida’s win against Arkansas last 
season. Dancose-Giambattisto is one of the gymnasts seeing an increased role with Bridget Sloan injured.
GYMNASTICSFlorida using multiple gymnasts to replace injured Sloan
UF Sports In Action This Week
Friday Saturday
Men’s Basketball:
@ Georgia at 2 p.m. 
Athens, GeorgiaMen’s Tennis:
vs. Troy at 3 p.m. 
Ring Tennis Complex (Free)Gymnastics:
vs. Auburn at 6:45 p.m. 
O’Connell Center (Free)Florida’s last ﬁ  ve home openers
2014:  
Bridget Sloan and Kytra Hunter 
recorded back-to-back 10s on ﬂ  oor 
as Florida defeated Georgia 198.05-
196.70.2013:  
 Ashanee Dickerson posted a 
meet-high 38.900 all-around 
score to lift UF to a 196.575-
190.55 win against Ball State. 2012:  
The Gators posted top marks 
in every rotation as Florida 
defeated Illinois-Chicago 
196.175-191.875.
2011:  
 Reigning SEC Freshman of the Year Ashanee 
Dickerson won four of ﬁ  ve event titles — 
including all-around (39.55) — as Florida 
defeated Nebraska 196.925-194.950.2010:  
 After holding just a .350 lead heading into the 
ﬁ  nal rotation, the Gators recorded a 49.200 
mark on the ﬂ  oor exercise rotation, holding on 
for a 196.575-195.925 win against Arkansas.play and scoring droughts,  like when 
a 19-point lead quickly becomes 10 against the Tigers. 
There is still quite a bit of defend-
ing with unnecessary fouls, and there 
is Chris Walker who still struggles and 
who, according to Donovan, has begun to get down on himself.
No low-post presence has emerged, 
and that alone should worry you as March sits six weeks away.
The next ﬁ  ve games are where the 
rubber will really meet the road for this team. It starts with the road game 
against Georgia on Saturday.
Yes, on its face it seems like a slam-
dunk, but as Walker has shown, those aren’t always as easy as they seem. 
Winning on the road in conference 
play is never easy. Compound that with 
the fact that Florida knows it is more talented than Georgia, and the fact that there is a two-day turnaround in which rest will be key. 
Will complacency set in? If it does, 
the Bulldogs — who aren’t as bad as you think, with wins over Kansas State, Colorado and Seton Hall under their belt — will prevail in the indoor version of the outdoor cocktail party.
Thursday’s Auburn game started 
a stretch of three games in six days for Florida, a test of its fortitude to be cer-tain. Georgia on Saturday is followed by LSU on Tuesday at home. 
The Tigers have the Nos. 2 and 3 re-
bounders per game in the SEC in Jordan Mickey (10.6) and Jarell Martin (8.9). 
Georgia, by the way, boasts Marcus 
Thornton, the league’s ﬁ  fth best re-bounder. 
For those keeping score at home, 
that’s four of the ﬁ  ve best rebounders in the conference — lumping in Auburn’s Cinmeon Bowers, the league leader — in three straight games.  
Yes, Florida is improving, but it’s 
about to get real. 
The Gators have failed nearly every 
test they have faced this season besides Wake Forest, and they’re about to face ﬁ  ve more before January wraps up. 
They better remember their erasers, 
and you should too, because if they fail more often than not they won’t be part 
of that tourney bracket you penciled 
them into.
Conference) and Florida (9-9, 1-4 SEC) changed leads 17 times, the most lead changes all season for the Gators. 
Cassie Peoples paced Florida with 12 points, but 
the redshirt junior shot just 4-for-15 from the ﬁ  eld to 
continue her SEC shooting woes. 
The Gators have repeatedly stressed the impor-
tance of taking care of the basketball, but Florida 
coughed the ball up 27 times — displaying a care-lessness that has crippled the team throughout the season. 
With Florida down 57-54 with under a minute to 
play, Kentucky missed a three-pointer from the cor-ner and Florida had a chance to tie the game up, or 
cut the deﬁ  cit to one point. 
But Florida surrendered an offensive rebound, 
forcing the Gators to foul under the basket. 
The Wildcats’ Azia Bishop went to the line with 
a chance to put the game away, but she missed both 
free throws. 
However, Bria Goss corralled the second con-
secutive offensive rebound for Kentucky, and two Makayla Epps free throws put the game away for 
good.
Florida had a rough going from the free throw 
line, with the team leaving crucial points at the line 
that could have affected the ﬁ  nal outcome. The Gators went 3-for-9 from the charity stripe, with only two of those attempts — both misses by fresh-man Brooke Copeland — coming in the second half.
The Wildcats went to the line 22 times and con-
verted 13 of their attempts.
“There wasn’t just one thing and you can’t look 
down the stretch, you have to look at the game in its entirety and some of the decisions we made throughout the game,” coach Amanda Butler said in a release.
Kayla Lewis had 10 points and eight rebounds 
for the Gators, while Ronni Williams and Haley Lo-renzen added eight points apiece.FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
First 100 People get a free T-Shirt!
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan calls out a play during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. 
The Gators are on a three-game winning streak.
Gators still struggling with personal fouls
JOURNAL , from page 13
W-HOOPS , from page 13UF turned the 
ball over 27 times 
against KentuckyCAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
After opening the year with a 
9-3 win against William & Mary, 
No. 13 Florida looks to continue 
building today when it hosts 
Troy at 3.
The Gators (1-0) will receive a 
boost when action begins at the 
Ring Tennis Complex, as junior 
Gordon Watson is set to make his 
singles debut against the Trojans.
Watson believes he has some-
thing to prove to himself, his 
coach and teammates.
“I’m physically back and 100 
percent,” Watson said. “Coach and I have talked and I’m ready to go. He knows that, and he wouldn’t put me on the court for any other reason if I was injured 
or wasn’t feeling great.”
The 5-foot-11 Naples native 
tallied a team-high 24 doubles 
victories in the 2013-2014 season.
Coach Bryan Shelton is excited to see Watson back on the court in singles play, and is conﬁ  dent that Watson is not only a key part of the team, but he’s also a threat 
to his opponents.
“He’s a big piece to this whole 
puzzle for us,” Shelton said. “I 
think of the last couple years, he 
has been in some big matches for 
us, he has a lot of experience, he’s one of the most talented players I’ve coached in my 15 plus years of coaching. … Once he realizes just how good he is and starts to fully take advantage of that and make the most out of it he can be one of the most devastating play-
ers in college tennis.”
Shelton is excited to have the 
right-handed hitter back in sin-
gles play today. The Gators have 
used the last six days to work on 
individual strengths and weak-nesses the team took note of in the win over William & Mary. 
“We’ve had a good, hard week,” Shelton said. “We’ve pushed really hard with condi-tioning and footwork and move-ment this week.”
Shelton said as the season 
progresses, the Gators will have their ups and downs, but the third-year UF head coach wants 
the team to stay focused on the 
long-term goal - playing the best tennis possible. 
“Overall, I see this team as be-
ing committed to working hard each day and bringing their very best,” Shelton said. “It’s just that their very best changes from one day to the next.”
All in all, Shelton is deter-
mined to not only put a win on the board for UF, but also con-tinue to improve throughout the 
year and trust the process.
“Ultimately, our goals are to 
continue to develop each day,” 
Shelton said. “We don’t get too worked up about any one match, 
we’re excited about every oppor-
tunity but the real thought pro-cess here is to take these opportu-nities and use them to get better, 
learn from them, create win-win 
situations where as if you win or you do something well, that’s great, you build conﬁ  dence. If you don’t do something well you 
become more resilient.”
Watson considers today’s 
match against Troy to be just an-
other game as the team marches 
its way through the season.
“The match (today) is go-
ing to be a tough one,” Watson 
said. “Like I’ve said before, every match is a stepping stone to our 
main goal.”16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gordon Watson (right) high ﬁ  ves teammate Diego Hidalgo during a doubles match in Florida’s 9-3 win 
against William & Mary on Saturday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
MEN’S TENNISUF’s Gordon Watson to play in singles lineup against Troy
Gordon Watson 
2013-2014 Stats
Overall Singles: 23-13
Dual Singles: 11-9
SEC Singles: 3-4
Overall Doubles: 24-17Dual Doubles: 9-13
SEC Doubles:  5-7“(Gordon Watson’s) a 
big piece to this whole 
puzzle for us. I think of the 
last couple years, he has 
been in some big matches 
for us, he has a lot of 
experience, he’s one of 
the most talented players 
I’ve coached in my 15 plus 
years of coaching. … Once 
he realizes just how good 
he is and starts to fully take 
advantage of that and make 
the most out of it he can be 
one of the most devastating 
players in college tennis.”
Bryan Shelton
UF men’s tennis coach