ABOUT 30 PEOPLE 
SUPPORTED PLANNED 
PARENTHOOD AT THE 
“PINK OUT” RALL Y.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
On Tuesday, the Rev. Donna 
Tara Lee wore a pink shirt that 
clashed with her vibrant blue 
hair. 
The blue hair was a gift to her-
self, bestowed on her 67th birth-
day.
But the pink shirt was a state-
ment supporting an organization she believes in. 
She stood in a cluster of 30 
pink-clad Planned Parenthood 
supporters gathered on the corner 
of University Avenue and North-west 13th Street on Tuesday eve-ning to demonstrate their support 
for the organization. 
The rally was held in response 
to the House of Representatives’ 
recent bill to defund the organi-zation after controversial videos 
surfaced in July, ﬁ  lmed by the 
Center for Medical Progress and featured Planned Parenthood ofﬁ  cials discussing the sale of 
aborted body parts to medical re-
search. 
For Lee, the debate is a reli-
gious one. 
A local LGBTQ+ activist and 
organizer, she is a member of the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Gainesville. The congregation states on its website that it is a 
liberal church, welcoming people 
regardless of race, religion, gen-der, sexual orientation, and other attributes.
“The church has backed wom-
en’s reproductive rights for 50 years, pretty much since it was an issue,” Lee said. 
She said the House of Repre-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 27 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
Florida basketball holds media day
Senior Dorian Finney-Smith is expected to take 
on a leadership role this year, pg. 14
Furry tactics
Photos: UF SG parties campaign with puppies, pg. 3
UF grads raise money for water puriﬁ  cation 
project
They hope to bring product to Haiti, pg. 5Gainesville celebrates the good ol’ Cup of Joe
Check out the story and photo story, pg. 8
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
The ﬁ  rst day of voting for the Fall Stu-
dent Government elections saw 6,427 stu-
dents voting.
This is more than the ﬁ  rst day of Fall 
2014 elections, when 5,457 ballots were 
cast, but less than Spring 2015, when 8,093 students cast their votes on the ﬁ  rst day.
There was one issue during the ﬁ  rst day 
of elections when the voting system had to 
be refreshed to reﬂ  ect District A having 10 
seats, instead of the nine it had last year, 
and District C has six seats now instead of the seven, Supervisor of Elections Erica Baker wrote in an email. This was resolved within the ﬁ  rst 15 minutes of polls being open.Max Dunevitz, a UF electrical engineer-
ing sophomore, walked out of Marston Sci-ence Library wearing a voting sticker. He cast his ﬁ  rst vote for SG Senate on Tuesday because he said voting is empowering.
“Part of it’s a responsibility,” the 
18-year-old said. “If you don’t, you’re missing out on something.”
Jaclyn Biedronski, 21, has been vot-
ing since her freshman year. The District D resident said students can’t complain if they don’t vote.
“I think we should act upon our rights,” 
the UF international studies and psychol-ogy senior said.
Vinny Nguyen, a UF biology junior, said 
those who don’t vote do nothing to change the system.
“You make a big difference,” the 
20-year-old said.  First day of SG elections has high turnout 
At the rally, they wore pink CAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF animal sciences freshman 
Kristen Lyons walked barefoot up Museum Road, high heels and re-sumes in hand.
As she approached the Stephen 
C. O’Connell Center on Tuesday, the 18-year-old stopped, handed her papers to a friend and began squeezing her feet into 3-inch tan heels.
Even though she didn’t think 
there would be many veterinari-ans hiring at the Career Showcase, Lyons said, “It can’t hurt to come and try out.”
She was one of about 7,000 
students predicted to attend the showcase Tuesday and today, said 
Career Resource Center Director 
Heather White. This Fall, students will be greeted by 90 additional employers looking to hire Gators.
Tuesday marked the ﬁ  rst day 
of UF’s Career Showcase, a semi-annual, two-day job fair hosted by the center, she said. The ﬁ  rst day catered to students in non-techni-
cal ﬁ  elds like English, accounting 
and history. The second day is geared toward students in techni-cal ﬁ  elds like engineering, chemis-try and computer science. Career Showcase will open at 9 a.m. to-
day and end at 3 p.m.
This semester, 378 companies 
signed up to participate, with 90 
of those coming to UF for the ﬁ  rst time, White said. This is about a 6 percent increase from last Fall.
Notable ﬁ  rst-timers include 
Facebook, Kellogg’s, Saks Fifth Avenue, PayPal and TripAdvisor, 
she said.
“There was a lot of buzz and 
excitement the past few weeks,” 
White said. “Our numbers (for companies attending Showcase), for the ﬁ  rst time, are back to pre-recession.”
For UF ﬁ  nance senior Maria-
Audrey Chadili, getting the chance 
to talk with newcomer Kellogg’s 
reminded her of home. The com-pany’s headquarters is in Michi-gan, the 21-year-old said, which borders her home country, Cana-da.    
“For me personally, it’s a com-
pany I know a lot about,” she said, adding that Frosted Flakes 
was one of her favorite cereals as 
a child.
On Tuesday, company booths 
were squeezed side-by-side on both ﬂ  oors of the O’Connell Cen-ter. UF accounting sophomore Taylor Zeisloft said he hoped to speak with a recruiter from the accounting ﬁ  rm Deloitte, who at-
tended the showcase for the ﬁ  rst 
time.
The 19-year-old said he 
planned to speak with representa- 90 new companies at 
UF Career Showcase
 Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
T amara Leisey (left), her husband Silvestre Hernandez, their 1-year-
old son Ollin Hernandez-Leisey and Rawlings Elementary School teacher Christe McGann rally Tuesday. Leisey said the couple got medical tests at Planned Parenthood before conceiving Ollin.     
SEE CAREER,  PAGE 4SEE PARENTHOOD,  PAGE 4Voting will continue today“I think we should act upon our rights.” 
Jaclyn Biedronski
UF international studies 
and psychology senior
“There was a lot of buzz 
and excitement the past 
few weeks. Our numbers 
(for companies attending 
Showcase), for the irst time, 
are back to pre-recession.”
Heather White
Career Resource Center 
DirectorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Banned Books Week Read-out
The George A. Smathers 
Libraries will celebrate liber-
ating literature Thursday from 
noon to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. Students, faculty and staff are invited to read a 
short passage from a banned 
or challenged book. Stop by to read or listen to others read and enjoy pizza and soda.
Gainesville Interfaith Alliance
Gainesville Interfaith Alliance for Immigrant Justice will screen the award-winning 
documentary “The Hand That 
Feeds” at the Millhopper Branch Library at 6:30 p.m. Monday. The 2014 film follows undocumented-immigrant res-
taurant workers in their strug-
gle for a living wage. The film will be followed by a discus-sion of immigration and living-
wage issues led by Jeremiah 
Tattersall and Diana Moreno.  Don Smith will moderate the open-audience discussion. The event is open to the public 
without charge.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a Disney-villains-themed event 
Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature Stuff-a-Dalmatian, a hypnotist and a costume 
contest with Disney prizes. 
GatorNights will also be host-ing showings of the movie “Inside Out”  at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The night will end with breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 
Cards. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the 
event.
Coming Out Kinky: A Grown Up 
Comedy
This comedy follows one ad-
venturous woman’s curious 
exploration of her sexuality. “Coming Out Kinky” has fe-male-empowering and sex-pos-
itive messages, including learn-
ing to make good choices and trusting the wisdom of one’s own body. Young women will see themselves in protagonist 
Jean Franzblau as she finds solid footing across the uneven 
terrain of sexual experimenta-
tion and expression. The show 
is certainly R-rated and will be shown tonight from 8:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Ustler Hall Atrium. For more infor-
mation, go to facebook.com/
events/958752354171288/.
5K Walk to Eliminate Health 
DisparitiesInterested in raising awareness about health disparities while exercising and having fun? UF’s Health Disparities Research 
and Intervention Program 
(Dr. Carolyn M. Tucker, direc-tor) and Suwannee River Area Health Education Center (Sarah 
Catalanotto, executive direc-
tor) are sponsoring a 5K walk titled “2015 Walk to Eliminate Health Disparities: Walking to Promote a Healthy Weight” 
on  Oct. 10. There will be free 
prizes and healthy snacks. All are welcome to register in ad-vance, free of charge, at http://
tx.ag/5KWalk.
Talking Gators meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesdays at 
5:45 p.m. in the Entomology 
Building Room 1031, located at 970 Natural Area Drive. Everyone is welcome to attend 
and learn about Toastmasters. 
For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. 
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your 
friends out to the clubs bi-
weekly lessons and dances every Monday and Friday. The club have free lessons for be-ginners and intermediates open 
to everyone. Monday nights 
the club is at the Reitz Union Breezeway, located at 655 Reitz Union Drive, with lessons 
from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and so-
cial dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday nights the club is at the Unified Training Center, located at 809 W. University 
Ave., with lessons from 8 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to midnight. If you have any questions or would 
like to get involved, please 
find the club on Facebook at www.facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/. We hope to dance with you all soon.
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, 
or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. First-prize winners will each 
receive $100, second-prize 
winners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will receive $25. Total prizes will equal 
$525. The submission period 
will end Oct. 9. For more in-formation, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html or email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-
tidisciplinary clinic at the 
UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. The program provides free and 
confidential legal representa-
tion, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as 
immigration and restraining or-
ders for the protection against domestic violence. The pro-gram also has a social worker who specializes in intimate 
partner violence and provides 
counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal 
system and providing valuable 
community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to con-tact the clinic, please call 352-273-0805 or email drake@law.
ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 27
HIGH  90° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello Broward Hall Library
 Health Science Center, C2-041C Bryan Hall, Study Area Jennings Hall Library Law School (Bruton Geer) Marston Science Library Murphree Area Commons Norman Hall Education Library Reitz Union Computer Lab Southwest Recreation Center Springs Area Ofﬁ  ceWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015    ALLIGATOR   3
Emma Green / Alligator 
Eight-week-old corgi Beau Franklin yawns after a morning of campaigning 
Tuesday on Turlington Plaza. His owner, Hana Sladick a 21-year-old family youth and community science senior, brought him with her to promote Access Party during Student Government elections.
VOTEOfficial BallotVOTING LOCATIONS
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff
Polti-Pups
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Zach Kozik, a 21-year-old UF criminal justice junior, holds Luke, a  9-month-old Pomera-nian, outside the Hub on Tuesday. While stopping to pet the pup, Kozik learned about Impact Party’s platform from Luke’s owner, Roshelle Twymon, a 19-year-old UF politi-cal science sophomore who was campaigning for the ﬁ  rst time. Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Hunter Faubion (left), a 25-year-old UF finance alumnus, types out his contact information for Jess Morales, a group tal-
ent acquisition manager for Enterprise Rent-A-Car, at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Tuesday during Career Show-case. Faubion searched for a corporate finance job, and he said he hopes to hear back from Procter & Gamble. 
By Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite being in a state where the 
average temperature doesn’t dip be-
low 65 degrees, UF is labeled a “cool school.”  
In this month’s “Sierra Maga-
zine,” UF ranked 56th out of 153 “cool schools.” The Sierra Club, a sustainability organization, ranks schools’ “coolness” based on its 
sustainability programs, said Alli-
son Vitt, UF Office of Sustainability’s outreach and communications coor-dinator.
“We are striving to be among the 
best of the best,” she said.
In 2010, the university ranked 
84th, meaning UF moved up 28 plac-es in five years.
This leap can be attributed to UF 
sustainability programs’ expansion and increased diversity, Vitt said.
There are more sustainability-
related classes this year compared to classes in 2010. This year, there are 216 undergraduate courses related to 
sustainability, Vitt said.
Cabot Zucker, a UF sustainability 
and the built environment senior, 
said he has seen an increase in class-es that integrate sustainability into their curriculums. 
UF’s waste-management pro-
gram, which increased recycling op-tions on campus, also contributes to 
the Sierra score, Vitt said.Zucker, 22, said he thinks the 
program is forward-thinking.  
“It’s impressive with how far 
they’ve come,” he said.
Included in the waste-manage-
ment initiative is a push for the use 
of more environmentally friendly products, Vitt said. In 2011, UF en-couraged Chick-fil-A to switch from Styrofoam to paper cups. This has diverted 1.2 million units of foam products from landfills, Vitt said.
UF is also a plastic-bag-free uni-
versity, Vitt said. This means no 
food-service company on campus uses plastic bags. For example, at 
Subway, customers get their sand-wiches wrapped, instead of placed in plastic bags.   
Additionally, the Office of Sus-
tainability is including more students in its conservation efforts, she said. The office’s student-intern program has grown from a handful of interns to more than 20 interns. These stu-dents help plan and run the office’s events, like the UF sustainability hut.
“We have a goal in mind,” Vitt 
said.  “We use them to get to that 
goal.”
New study shows UF improves in sustainability ranking 
By Sara Perlman
Alligator Contributing Writer
More research is in UF’s Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences’ future.
UF IFAS was awarded nearly $125.8 mil-
lion in research funding for the 2014 to 2015 
fiscal year, said Jackie Burns, the UF/IFAS dean for research said.
The majority of the funding comes from 
federal programs, like the National Insti-tutes of Health and National Science Foun-
dation, Burns said.
The IFAS funding total for this year ex-
ceeded last year’s by 23 percent. She said 
this is a result of UF faculty’s innovative 
grant proposals.
“Both our new and older faculty have 
done an excellent job searching for funding 
in their research expertise,” Burns said.
People want UF’s scientists’ help, said Doug Archer, the IFAS associate dean for re-search. Companies donate to IFAS because they have faith in the program experts’ abil-
ities, he said.
“It’s thrilling to bring money in and be 
able to use that money to build a better sci-
ence base,” Archer said. “It allows you to propel into the future. It’s a big deal.”
Students also benefit from the research 
funding, said Jack Payne, UF senior vice 
president for agriculture and natural re-
sources. The funding supports both faculty and student research.  
UF nutritional sciences junior Cassandra 
Etzig said she likes that the money will fund her research under a grant from the Nation-al Institutes of Health. With the grant, she is able to assist in the food nutrition lab.
“Thanks to the NIH grant, I have had re-
search opportunities to help me advance in my future career,” the 20-year-old said.IFAS research funds increaseSILK, COTTON SCARVES, 
SHAWLS AND BED SPREADS 
WERE ALSO SOLD.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tables in the Reitz Union glittered with 
sterling silver necklaces and bracelets.
On Tuesday, the Reitz Union Arts and 
Crafts Center hosted a jewelry sale in the 
union in hopes of cleaning out its inven-tory from previous semesters, said Kellan McLaughlin, a 20-year-old UF nursing senior 
who is a student manager for the center.  The 
sale also served to let students know that the center, located in the basement, exists, said Julia Campitelli, 19, who works for the center.
“A lot of people go down into the (Reitz 
Union) basement and are like, ‘Oh, what is this?’” the UF advertising sophomore said. 
The Arts and Crafts Center offers UF stu-dents creative classes, like jewelry making, at 
a discount rate. By selling the jewelry, it can 
make room for more popular activities’ sup-plies, such as ceramics, McLaughlin said. 
Students could buy the jewelry at a dis-
counted price. Those who bought one item could purchase another for $1, she said. Most of the items sold were sterling silver, silk and cotton scarves, shawls and bed spreads.
The center declined to comment on how 
much money it made from the sale.
UF exploratory freshman Maria Grosso 
said she went to the Reitz looking to buy rings for her mother and sister. 
“They really love jewelry, and this would 
make a perfect gift,” the 19-year-old said. Craft center sells bling in Reitz
tives from the top four accounting 
firms, which included Deloitte. The company had some of the longest lines at the showcase.
“I feel like I’m still early,” he 
said, “but it’s time to buckle down and see what’s out there.”  
He said he thinks UF offers a 
wide range of potential employers at the showcase every year.
“It speaks a lot about UF’s na-
tional prominence,” he said. “I think it makes us feel great as stu-
dents that these companies want 
us.”CAREER,  from pg 1There are 378 companies participating 
sentatives is trying to use reli-
gion to decide what is right, but noted that there are plenty 
of people who don’t hold that 
same viewpoint.
“They have the right to be-
lieve what they believe, but so 
does everybody else,” she said. 
“This isn’t a theocracy.”
The rally marked Madeline 
Fitts’ first time organizing an event in Gainesville. 
The 27-year-old said she re-
ceived an email from MoveOn.org requesting an event orga-nizer for the nationwide rally to 
support Planned Parenthood. 
“It’s a political grassroots 
movement trying to combat a 
lot of the misinformation being spread by the videos, which (the 
Center for Medical Progress) ac-
knowledged were heavily ed-ited,” she said. 
UF students were lacking in 
attendance, but a group of four Eastside High School students rallied using handmade signs. The 16-year-olds were all mem-
bers of the Eastside Young Dem-
ocrats, a club they formed at the start of the semester.
One of them, Margaret 
Parker, held a sign that asked, “When you vote against health-care and human rights...can you really call yourself pro-life?”
Parker said she hopes the 
event will call attention to the issue, combating the stigma around Planned Parenthood.
“The recent action taken by 
conservatives is counterproduc-tive,” she said. “There are a lot of misconceptions, and by com-ing out here we hope to clear 
some of them up.”PARENTHOOD,  from pg 1High school students 
showed their supportUF is now ranked 56th
CAMPUS
“A lot of people go down into the 
(Reitz Union) basement and are like, 
‘Oh, what is this?’”
Julia Campitelli
UF advertising sophomore
“It’s a political grassroots 
movement trying to combat 
a lot of the misinformation 
being spread by videos, 
which (the Center for 
Medical Progress) 
acknowledged were heavily 
edited.”
Madeline Fitts
Planned Parenthood supporter4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015GNV man charged, cocaineWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015    ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff deputies arrested 
a UF student last week for missing his court 
date after he was charged for owning an il-legal alligator skin.
Cristov Dosev, 22, received a citation in 
December after the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission found the skin be-hind his Kappa Alpha fraternity home, com-mission district spokesman Brad Stanley said.
Dosev is listed as the fraternity’s president 
on the UF Interfraternity Council’s website, and he reportedly told FWC ofﬁ  cers the skin belonged to him. 
Stanley said offenders usually receive a 
notice to appear in court and are ﬁ  ned up to $500. “Evidently he didn’t go to his court date,” he said.
Hunters can apply for a permit to kill alli-
gators every year, and random applicants are picked to receive two tags. 
Dosev told ofﬁ  cers the body was roadkill, 
Stanley said, but unless the alligator’s tail is tagged, it’s illegal to own.
Dosev could not be 
reached for comment as of press time.
He is a senior in the UF 
College of Business, ac-
cording to UF spokesman 
Steve Orlando.
Police arrested Dosev on a charge for the 
unlawful possession of an alligator skin and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Wednesday afternoon on a $500 bond.UF student received citation 
for illegal alligator skin By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man ear-
ly Tuesday morning after he reportedly tried 
to hide cocaine and escape arrest.
About 3 a.m. Tuesday, Alderious J. White, 
21, reportedly hit the gas on his four-door 
Pontiac when an ofﬁ  cer tried to pull him over, 
according to a police report.
A light hung over White’s license plate, 
making it hard to see and causing the ofﬁ  cer to ﬂ  ash his lights at the corner of Northwest Fourth Avenue and Northwest 13th Street, ac-cording to the report.
White eventually got out and ran from his 
car, jumping two fences before getting arrest-
ed on Northwest Fifth Avenue.
Police reportedly found 0.1 grams of co-
caine among four containers in his car, ac-
cording to the report.White was transported to Shands Hospital 
for strained breathing and a rapid heartbeat. 
Police believe he ate an unknown amount of 
cocaine before the chase, GPD spokesman 
Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
White was convicted of 
eight unarmed robberies on Jan. 28, 2008, according to 
the report. Since 2012, he was also found guilty on 
various charges including 
domestic battery, posses-sion of a weapon and re-
sisting an ofﬁ  cer, according to Alachua Coun-ty court records.
Police arrested White on charges of co-
caine possession, resisting an ofﬁ  cer, habitu-ally driving with a suspended license and two counts of resisting an ofﬁ  cer.
Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $20,000 bond.
FLORIDA IS ONE OF 19 
STATES NOT ACCEPTING 
THE EXPANSION.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
State leaders gathered Tuesday 
evening to speak about Medicaid ex-
pansion and its effects on Gainesville 
residents during a monthly Alachua County Labor Coalition meeting. 
State Rep. Clovis Watson could 
not speak as originally planned due to a family emergency, but his chief of staff, Michelle Sherﬁ  eld, spoke on his behalf about the need for Florida to accept a federal Medicaid expan-
sion. 
Florida is one of 19 states opting 
not to accept the expansion at this 
time, according to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation. The study found that 31 states, including Wash-ington, D.C., had adopted the expan-sion by Sept. 1. One state, Utah, has adopted it under discussion. 
“The primary reason (Watson) 
supports it is because it is critical to the working poor, and that’s who the Medicaid expansion would beneﬁ  t,” 
Sherﬁ  eld said. 
She said people in the states 
that have adopted the expansion 
are getting healthier, and the states themselves “didn’t go bankrupt.” But Florida, she said, is still ﬁ  ghting through grassroots movements, like in monthly ACLC meetings.
Sherﬁ  eld urged voters to contact 
their representatives in their respec-tive districts, reminding those rep-resentatives that they support the expansion, and they decide who re-
mains in ofﬁ  ce through voting. 
“Next year is an election year,” 
she said. “These representatives care 
about getting re-elected.”
Scott Darius, advocacy director 
at Florida CHAIN, also spoke at the meeting. He addressed arguments made by Rep. Keith Perry opposing the Medicaid expansion for Florida. 
“The state of Florida has an op-
portunity to accept over $50 billion in federal funding to expand Medic-aid,” he said. “That $50 billion is ac-
tually tax paid for by Floridians, tax 
money that we paid into the federal system that should be returned to us to pay for Medicaid for our poorest citizens.”
State leaders speak about Florida Medicaid expansion 
By Van Miller 
Alligator Contributing Writer
After taking a UF engineering entrepre-
neurship class, three UF alumni knew they wanted to use the skills they were learning in school to help people.  
The UF graduates — Rob Damitz, Daniel 
Blood and Erica Gonzaga — created a bottle that puriﬁ  es contaminated water using UV lights.After their Fall 2013 class, the group cre-
ated aqUV Clean Water For All, transform-ing their classroom prototype into a busi-ness that sells solar-powered, reusable and 
portable water-puriﬁ  er bottles, Damitz said.  
Until the end of October, the group is focus-ing on raising enough money to distribute the bottles to people in developing coun-tries. 
The alumni trio is working to bring the 
product to Haiti, Damitz said.  To do that, though, they need to raise money in the U.S., which is why the group created a Kick-starter webpage earlier this month.  
“Our goal is deﬁ  nitely the charitable side, 
providing clean drinking water to people in need,” Gonzaga said.
As of press time, the group has raised 
$13,491 on its Kickstarter webpage. Damitz said their goal is $50,000, and the Kickstart-er will end Oct. 28.  
Damitz said the product is designed to be reusable. He said Haiti is in need of help.
“All of the wells that we collected from 
in Haiti had bacteria in them,” he said. “We did a little bit of testing down there in order 
to verify that we were killing the bacteria.”
Damitz said for every three puriﬁ  ers sold 
right now, the group will donate one to 
someone in need.
“We are just hoping to improve the ac-
cess of clean drinking water across the globe,” he said.UF grads raise money for water purification projectWhite
Dosev
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTime management 
is a leviathan 
to be worked 
around, not slain
Time-management skills: Some of us got ‘em, some of 
us don’t. In high school and the preceding years, time-management skills essentially boiled down to doing your menial homework assignments as soon as you got home (unless you had a job, in which case your life was made 
exponentially harder), and saving the hard studying and projects for the wee hours. If you were of a particularly anxious sort or prone to procrastination, the wee hours could mean as early (or late) as 5 a.m. As far as the weekend went, school was essentially a non-entity, at least until Sunday evening rolled around.
The foundation for a good work ethic and the capacity to man-
age your time is built during these years. You had to have man-aged your time to at least a degree of functionality, or else you wouldn’t be at UF reading this column.
However, even for the best of the best — and especially for the 
worst of the worst — college can present a challenge that may at times seem insurmountable. With our newfound independence comes new expectations and new avenues of opportunity, as well as the omnipresent burden that is keeping your GPA at a competi-tive level.
Perhaps more than any other time in our lives, college pulls 
our hearts, minds and bodies in disparate directions, stretching out our respective degrees of commitment in our lives until some-
thing or other inevitably gives out. Some prioritize their personal 
health and ﬁ  tness over having several extracurricular activities; others sacriﬁ  ce a fulﬁ  lling social life in order to build their re-sumes and ensure that their future is as bright as can be; others simply get lost in the Midtown malaise and drop out after several consecutive semesters of wanton hedonism.
Regardless of the path one chooses, the very act of choosing 
itself represents a critical moment in our lives. Yes, it almost cer-tainly sucks: If it were up to all of us, UF (and American colleges 
at large) would be populated by nothing but in-shape individuals 
who manage to not only eat, exercise and study well, but party like there’s no tomorrow while somehow making fat stacks in the process. But alas, most of us can’t have both the chiseled frame of Adonis and the learned wisdom of Athena (but for those of you who can, for God’s sake let us in on your secret).
Making smart choices and prioritizing are, if not the corner-
stone of good time management, certainly a critical piece of the clock-shaped puzzle. Although it may seem awful now (because 
it is), college gives us an opportunity to ﬁ  gure out where our pri-
orities lie, whether that’s through failing to address some of them or realizing where our passions lie.
A simplistic and shallow message for an editorial? Perhaps, 
but consider this: Would you rather develop those skills now while you’re in school and have the room to bomb an exam or two, or would you prefer to learn them when you have multiple mouths to feed and a job on the line? If college is a trial by ﬁ  re, then the real world is a trial by hibachi grill fueled by the Olympic 
ﬂ  ame.
Time management, like anything else, is a skill that comes 
with time, repetition and innumerable instances of failure and 
disappointment. Stressful as it may be, look at college as an op-portunity to reﬁ  ne that skill rather than decry it for being so damn hard. Literary tourism: a rewarding way to learn about life
Recently, I read an old article by Laura C. Mallonee in “The Paris Review” titled “Some Realms I Owned: Elizabeth Bishop in Manhattan.”
 The article was one of the most haunt-
ing and intriguing reads I’d stumbled upon in a while. It was introspective and powerful, an indi-vidual’s account of that strange, personal and little discussed reason for traveling: literary tourism.
 Mallonee traveled to 13 addresses in New York 
City that Bishop had once occupied, for however short or long a time. Her reason for this careful and time-consuming project — many of the addresses were tucked away, difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd or not in the best condition for visiting 
— was simply to be in the same space Bishop had once been 
in, breathe the same air and search for any trace remnants of self and creative mastery that might have been overlooked by the countless other persons who had since lived in those apartments.
 Literary tourism is a funny old thing. It’s not the same 
as going to see a national monument. While it’s true that there are some writers whose birthplace is treated like a well-known-touristy trap, such as Shakespeare’s birthplace 
in Stratford-upon-Avon, most literary destinations are special 
and preserved because of a small number of fans who cher-ish those somewhat-embarrassing hopes that perhaps one day they will be able to glimpse into their favorite writer’s mind, unveiling his or her own unique creative process.
Gainesville, believe it or not, is pretty heavily steeped 
in literary tourism, although not all of it is author based. If you want to ﬁ  nd the only straight-up feminist bookstore in Florida, look no further than Wild Iris, at 22 SE 5th Ave. No 
matter what you think about feminism, the store’s tireless 
devotion to its cause and singular existence in the Sunshine State makes it worth a visit.
 If you’ve never read “The Yearling,” you should go do so 
right now and learn that the author of this Pulitzer Prize-win-ning novel, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, lived only 30 minutes east of Gainesville, and her 72-acre farm has been made into a historic state park open to visitors every day.
 When I tell anyone remotely connected to the 
writing world that one day I will publish a novel, the advice is always the same: That sounds nice, honey, but ﬁ  rst you must sit down and write it.
 It’s that frustrating point of creating, the pro-
cess of writing, rewriting and writing again, that has long fascinated the fans of both well-known and obscure writers. How do they think like that? What makes a story happen? Where did it come from?
 By visiting sites of literary tourism, such as the apart-
ment home or frequented cafe of a favorite author, we seek to know how this concept bloomed into something more.
I think it’s interesting because passionate fans harbor de-
lusions of grandeur and mystery about our writers and their heroes and heroines.
 I myself became deeply invested in Jane Austen this sum-
mer and have grown quite attached to her; she’s basically an old friend. When someone dared to criticize her work, I found myself disgusted with them. When I saw her portrait in the National Portrait Gallery in London, I felt as though I was meeting a celebrity.
This is the key to fandom, whether it’s of a rock band, 
an author or an artist: We build up our ﬁ  gureheads and our dreams of them to staggering heights.
 We wholeheartedly identify small things — like one of 
many forgotten New York City apartments, which may or may not have belonged to Elizabeth Bishop for a few short weeks — as timeless monuments to the lived existence of our favorites. More importantly, we hold onto scraps of con-nection and create these oddly special places as testaments 
to our love for them. Mallonee summed it up very well: “...
such journeys are never simply educational ﬁ  eld trips, but affairs of deep passion.”
 Gainesville is full of top-notch places to get your literary 
love affair started. Start exploring.
Sally Greider is an English and public relations junior. 
Her columns appear on Wednesdays.  
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
www.alligator.org/opinions
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015    ALLIGATOR   7
Last Friday, I observed a sign 
on the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity house that read “ATΩ  + ∆∆∆ YOU’RE THE 
TEN-I-SEE.” My ﬁ  rst reaction 
was to scoff and write off the sign as a misplaced joke. But it merits consideration so that we might better understand how Greek life prescribes the interaction between men and women and how our cul-ture inadvertently permits abuse.
Admittedly, as unoriginal as the slogan is, 
one can assume that at the very least it was 
not well thought out, and as such, the poten-
tial implications were equally less considered.
Nonetheless, the sign does provide a good 
point of reference for an examination of the mentality and culture from which it emanates.
First, to consider its discursive function, it 
speaks volumes that a fraternity would choose a corny pickup line as an advertisement on its façade. Speaking of discourse, where is the 
voice of the woman?
Returning to the utterance itself, we hear a 
man’s voice and see that the woman is voice-
less and really only a body. Forget what she sees, thinks or feels. She’s but an instrument for his pleasure. Her existence is what the pa-triarchy envisions for her.
To analyze the aesthetic implied, how ab-
surd is a world in which the extent of possible 
beauty is what the privileged, white males 
aged 19 to 23 could conceive on a 10-point scale?
Interestingly, a sorority also posted a sign 
that read something along the lines of, “we’re the only ten-I-see.” This “counterprotest” al-lowed for the objectiﬁ  cation of women that places a series of numbers and price tags on beauty and relevance. For as trivial as the two 
signs discussed are, they give insight into a 
whole degenerative, warped culture.
Beneath the feigned politeness of any pick-
up line or lame attempt at humor whose crux is the reduction of a person to an object, we glimpse the scourge that is the patriarchy.  
Consider Total Frat Move and its “go make 
me a sandwich” view toward women’s em-powerment, or the national structure where-by women are never paid equal to their male counterparts for the same amount of effort. None of this is random or incidental, and it rep-resents a structure we can under-
stand and work to dismantle.
Any system that supplants 
women’s agency with their instru-
mentality embodies an unneces-sary evil we cannot continue to excuse or tolerate. One should not sit around waiting for the historical 
perpetrators of abuse to rein themselves in, either.
Yes, a sign is just a sign, but it also repre-
sents a structure of thought and behavior, the same one responsible for the abuse and rape of women.
While it’s undoubtedly controversial to 
make this assertion, a recent scandal that also involved a very similar medium, signs on a frat house, served to reinforce that the abuse of women is often thought of as a natural func-
tion of man’s social role and easily reduced to 
a joke. You know, “boys will be boys…”
At the beginning of the current term, the 
Old Dominion University chapter of the Sigma Nu fraternity was suspended after hanging, also on their house’s façade, three bedsheets with messages that read, respectively: “Row-dy and fun hope your baby girl is ready for a good time…,” “Freshman daughter drop off 
[down arrow pointing at front door]” and “Go 
ahead and drop off mom too…”
I have no doubt the creators of these signs 
were just as bemused and sure of themselves as the Alpha Tau Omega brothers who pro-duced the “TEN-I-SEE” sign last week. Instead of equivocating, can we simply accept that the gesture itself embodies an oppressive and mi-sogynistic culture?
The “TEN-I-SEE” sign is the happy-face 
mask worn by a monster. The patriarchy mar-kets itself well, but its products and lifeblood amount to exclusion and inequality that en-tail the antithesis of the mission of a center of higher learning.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF lin-
guistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.On a scale from one to frat …Column
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgI have had the pleasure of serv-
ing on the Gainesville/Alachua County Cultural Affairs Board since January 2012. I am more excited now than ever for the future of 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Af-
fairs in this region. Arts and cul-ture are thriving in our area, but there is so much more we can do if we all share in the effort. The 352ArtsRoadmap is a set of priori-ties that will help chart the future of arts and culture in Gainesville and Alachua County over the next ﬁ  ve to 10 years.
The 352ArtsRoadmap is important because 
a healthy cultural sector will support the eco-nomic development of our region by gener-ating revenue, creating new jobs, attracting tourists and enhancing the area’s quality of life, making it more desirable to new invest-ment.
The City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs Department (PRCA), Ala-
chua County and the state of Florida, with the 
guidance of Mataraza Consulting, committed leadership, energy and ﬁ  nancial resources to the 352ArtsRoadmap planning process. We deﬁ  ne culture as all creative expression: eth-nic, ecological, historic, literary, ﬁ  ne, folk, popular arts, humanities, sciences, technology and all the wonderful creativity in between.
Our 352ArtsRoadmap provides new con-
cepts and recommendations to build on al-ready-established efforts. The plan was a year-long process, and about 3,000 area residents helped shape it. This includes 107 cultural groups, 555 artists and creative types, 104 planning-summit attendees, 305 focus groups and meeting attendees and 2,126 residents spanning the region.
The plan has four main priorities and aims:
1. Nurture and increase creative vitality.
2. Increase creative opportunities for all 
residents everywhere.
3. Boost our reputation as an even more 
attractive place to live, work and visit.
4. Increase cultural affairs’ stewardship.The 352ArtsRoadmap is a plan that seeks 
to strengthen culture and creativity and in-crease the impact on our region’s livabil-
ity and prosperity. This plan strengthens the City of Gainesville PRCA Vision 
2020 Master Plan and addresses priorities for quality of life. With the 352ArtsRoadmap, we hope to continue to build Alachua County 
and Gainesville as premier com-
munities for parks, recreation and cultural offerings for all. This will help build our community as a world-class destination for the arts with diverse cultural heritage and 
venues where creativity thrives. Susan Daven-port, interim president and CEO of Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce said it best: “It 
is clear our arts and cultural resources are an 
economic driver for our local and regional economy and make our community an invit-ing place, attracting and keeping top talent here.”
The Gainesville/Alachua County Cultural 
Affairs Board meetings are open to the public and held the fourth Wednesday of each month at 5:30 p.m. in the historic Thomas Center.
On Oct. 29 from 6 to 7 p.m., the Gainesville 
City Commission will host its second Tele-phone Town Hall, called “talkGNV,” to dis-cuss the PRCA master plan — PRCA Vision 2020.
City ofﬁ  cials will answer caller questions 
about the master plan, such as future en-hancements to Gainesville’s park facilities and recreation opportunities, as well as discuss 
potential funding methods. Any resident inter-
ested in participating should register his or her telephone number at cityofgainesville.org/openGNV/talkGNV.aspx or call 352-334-5032 and leave a message with his or her name and telephone number. On social media, use #PR-CAVision2020 to look for updates.
To learn more about the PRCA Vision 2020 
Master Plan, visit cityofgainesville.org/Park-
sRecreationCulturalAffairs/MasterPlan.aspx.
We hope to grow interest and momentum 
for the 352ArtsRoadmap and Vision 2020 
Master Plan. To see the full 352ArtsRoadmap visit 352Arts.org and like the Facebook page at facebook.com/352arts.
David J. RuizVice Chair, Gainesville/Alachua County 
Cultural Affairs Board
davidjruiz@gmail.comSupport 352Arts in Alachua CountyGuest column
David J. Ruiz
Speaking OutBy Michaela Steakley
Alligator Contributing Writer  
Almost every day, Margaret 
Haney gets a cup of coffee.
But on Tuesday, the 66-year-old 
Gainesville resident got her medium-
sized vanilla bean dark roast iced 
coffee for free.
“I just did it because I love 
Dunkin’ Donuts,” she said. “It’s my 
favorite.”The free coffee was one of sev-
eral promotions held by coffee shops around Gainesville in honor of Na-
tional Coffee Day. At Dunkin’ Do-
nuts on Archer Road, where Haney got her drink, the promotion was one medium-sized hot or iced dark roast coffee per customer.
Kelsey Stefan, 18, a health science 
and psychology double major, said she usually goes to Starbucks or the dining hall for coffee, but she made a special stop at Dunkin’ Donuts on Tuesday to save a few dollars.
“My best friend texted me and let 
me know,” the UF freshman said. 
“So I had to go.”
In preparation for the day, the 
Dunkin’ Donuts on Archer Road had 
to stock up on extra coffee, cups, napkins, straws, cream and sugar, bakery products and sandwiches, store manager Amber Souza said.
“The thing for us is to be pre-
pared for it, execute well, and that 
way we retain those customers,” the 
36-year-old said.The number of employees in-
creased to 10 from its usual seven or eight for the morning shift and from four employees to five for the after-
noon shift. Though the promotion 
creates more stress for employees, it’s nothing they can’t handle, said Tommie Wiggins III, a shift manager at Dunkin’ Donuts.
“It’s manageable,” Wiggins said. 
“Stressful, but manageable.”
At Krispy Kreme on Northwest 
13th Street, the promotion was one 
small coffee and one original glazed 
donut.“The response has been out-
standing,” said Gretchen Fullerton, a Krispy Kreme supervisor. She es-timated the store had given away 
1,500 coffees and donuts and said 
the store had to give out medium cups when it ran out of small cups after 4 p.m.
Jeffrey Pierre and Islande Resig-
nac, both UF seniors, said the appeal wasn’t the actual food.
“We’re free partners,” said Resig-
nac, 22, a psychology major. “Every 
time there’s free food, we go togeth-
er.”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
Gainesville celebrates the good ol’ Cup of Joe
Coffee shops held promos
TOP RIGHT:
Customers wait in line for free coffee at the Dunkin’ Donuts at 1730 
W. University Ave. around 4:45 p.m. Tuesday. About 35 people were there, forming a line that stretched down the sidewalk outside.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Logistics manager Thomas Whitman prepares a batch of coffee beans for packaging at the Opus Coffee warehouse on Tuesday. The company has four shops in Gainesville and supplies beans to other local businesses. “I normally start off my day with a plain old cup of joe at any one of our locations, ” he said.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Rodrigo Guerrero brews a batch of Ethiopia blend using a pour over at Know Where Coffee on Tuesday. The 22-year-old UF food and resource economics senior has worked at the 1226 W. University Ave. shop since it opened in March. “All I drink are lattes and cap-puccinos, ” he said.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Natalia Bedoya, a 26-year-old UF food science senior, shakes her iced coffee to mix it at Karma Cream on Tuesday. “I’m just here to get coffee for a test I have to study for, ” said Bedoya, who didn’t know it was National Coffee Day.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffAndrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015    ALLIGATOR   9
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
Historic Duck Pond: Vintage two-story 3bed/2bath available now. This clean, spa-cious home is beautifully restored! Walk to Downtown, Innovation Square, or UF. $1595/mo. Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395. email: 217@cozygator.com    10-1-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified7 Computers 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
1996 Nissan Altima GXE, 5 Speed
195,000 miles Runs great, cold AC
$680 Call 352 262-6237    9-30-15-3-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-ing bar/deli help. Must have reliable transp. Saturday availability required. Applications now being accepted at the 2327 NW 13th street location.    10-5-15-5-14
Work for Subway!Are you looking for a great job with flexible schedules, regular opportunities for raises and opportunities for advancement? If so a job at Subway might be perfect you. We are now accepting applications from friendly people. Simply email subway4gainesville@yahoo.com and write "I'm interested!" in the subject line. Directions will follow via email.   10-5-15-5-14
Attractive & Fit Female Graduates Wanted
for South FL based modeling assignments.
You must be a college graduate, well
spoken, and mature. A good personality is
also required. PT or FT opportunity. You
must be living in or ready to move to South
FL. We can help you plan for your future:
business, health insurance, and retire-
ment guidance is part of our package. Earn
$4,000-$12,000 per month depending on
your motivation and availability. Email your
resume and physical stats to Taylor:
Ms.MiamiModels@gmail.com
10-6-15-5-14
P/T Babysitter for family with 4 kids age 6-12 (not always for all at once). $12/hr. Play, help with homework, dishes, school/activity driv-ing. Experience required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    10-2-15-3-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CITT Web Services captioning has an OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14ACROSS
1 Wild hogs
6 Wild animal
11 Bird in a cage,
often
14 Pinhead15 Off-the-cuff16 Hot feeling17 Blanket
containers
19 Sign word often
seen before “nextexit”
20 Matzo meal
21 Some RSVPs
22 Punch source
23 “Born to Die”
singer Lana 
Del __
24 Caspian Sea land
26 Diamond figure
29 Burrowing beach
denizens
34 Smart guys?
35 Spanish tourist
city
36 Knock on Yelp
37 Mall bag38 Given (to)
39 Responded to
reveille
40 Former Energy
secretary Steven
41 No-frills
42 Hog lover43 Lollipops, e.g.
45 On the ball
46 Like reporters, by
trade
47 Brief letters?
48 Artist’s pad50 Arranged locks53 Strips on a
sandwich
56 Frazier foe57 Where much
classical music is
heard
60 Spoil
61 “Too rich for me”62 Castle in the
1914 musical“Watch YourStep”
63 “Ciao!”
64 1975 Pulitzer
winner forcriticism
65 Put two and two
together
DOWN
1 Media Clic Ice
maker
2 Often emotional
works3 Help on the Hill
4 Rolex 24 at
Daytona, e.g.
5 Parade venues6 “That’s
hogwash!”
7 Big name in
organic foods
8 Furthermore9 Isn’t active, as
equipment
10 “King of the
Nerds” airer
11 Sight-unseen
buy
12 Stretches of
history
13 Lab work18 React to a
kitchen bulb,maybe
22 Word after go or
so
25 Miley Cyrus label26 Hidden problem27 Hawaiian Airlines
greeting
28 Shoot back
29 Leftovers
preserver
30 Dodge
31 Doofus
32 One creating
enticing aromas
33 Hägar’s dog38 Feign ignorance39 One of two
baseball playoff
teamsdetermined nextweek by a “play-in” game in eachmajor league,and a hint to thispuzzle’s circles
41 Lenovo products42 Munich’s state44 Small point47 English channel,
briefly48 Moussaka meat49 Facial cosmetics
brand
51 Clarinet cousin52 Disparaging
comment
54 Pigged out (on),
briefly
55 Ted Williams’
number
57 Chart shape58 Addams family
cousin
59 Heavy ref.
By C.C. Burnikel©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/30/1509/30/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 30, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
SEP 4 - NEW MEXICO STATE
SEP 11 - EAST CAROLINA
SEP 25 - TENNESSEE
OCT 2 - OLE MISS
OCT 30 - GEORGIA (JAX)
NOV 6 - VANDERBILT (HOMECOMING)
NOV 20 - FLA ATLANTIC
NOV 24 - FSU
DEC 4 - SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
CONTACT YOUR
SALES REP TODAY
352-376-4482RUN 5 OF 9 DATES AND RECEIVE 15% OFF  
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 10/5-10/8 from 5-7 p.m. each day.  Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu or call 392-2010 to register.      10-5-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. MONEY: How many companies 
make up the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average?
2. CARTOONS: What is the name of 
Mickey Mouse’s dog?
3. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “From Here to Eternity”?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the city 
of Giza? 
5. SCIENCE: In what field of study 
would a Punnett square be used?
6. MUSIC: What rock band featured 
Steven Tyler as the lead singer?
7. MATH: How many millions are in 
a billion dollars?
8. TELEVISION: What character 
did actor John Travolta play on “Wel-
come Back Kotter”?
9. FOOD: Who was the host of the 
television cooking show called “Good Eats”?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was 
Ronald Reagan’s first nickname?
Answers
1. 302. Pluto3. James Jones4. Egypt5. Genetics, to calculate genetic traits6. Aerosmith7. 1,0008. Vinnie Barbarino
9. Alton Brown
10. Dutch
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 28, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 16 Health Services 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 20 Event Notices
Headline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports. Coach Mary Wise and Florida's volleyball team are set to take on Missouri tonight at 8  in the team's first Southeastern Conference road trip of the season.  By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Fresh off a 31-30 home loss to Ole Miss, 
a disheartened, tearful Tim Tebow stood at 
the podium, answering for what had been one of the most disappointing losses for Florida in recent memory.
Turnovers, poor defensive execution 
and a failed fourth-and-1 attempt had end-ed UF’s hope for an undefeated season.
The Gators were title favorites with the 
defending Heisman winner at quarterback. 
The Rebels had entered the game 2-2 af-
ter falling at home to Vanderbilt the week before.
This wasn’t supposed to happen.
Tebow knew it. 
So, after answering every question, he 
left with an apology — and a promise.
“To the fans and everybody in Gator 
Nation, I’m sorry. I’m extremely sorry,” Tebow said. 
“We were hoping for an undefeated sea-
son. That was my goal, something Florida has never done here. But I promise you one 
thing: a lot of good will come out of this.
“You have never seen any player in the 
entire country play as hard as I will play 
the rest of this season, and you’ll never see someone push the rest of the team as hard as I will push everybody the rest of this season, and you’ll never see a team play harder than we will the rest of this season. God bless.”
That was Sept. 27, 2008, the last time 
the Rebels visited the Swamp. 
They will do so again on Saturday, this 
time as the favorite and a national title contender.
And while the Gators will certainly be WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
www.alligator.org/sports
Fred Taylor named to SEC Legends Class
Former Florida running back Fred T aylor was named to the 2015 Southeast-
ern Conference Football Legends class, the league announced on Tuesday. T aylor, a standout running back from 1994-97, was named All-SEC his senior season. He was a first-round selection in the 1998 NFL Draft by Jacksonville.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Former Florida quarterback Tim T ebow (left) speaks during the SEC Nation broadcast before Florida's 28-27 win against 
T ennessee on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Seven years later, Tebow's speech still impacting Florida
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Within his first six weeks at 
Florida, Mike White finished put-ting the past behind him.
He had already analyzed film 
from 32 of Florida’s games from the previous year, already sought advice from the coaches he was replacing, asking them about play-ers’ tendencies, strengths and weaknesses, and already called re-cruits to make sure they were still committed.
It wasn’t until 21 minutes into 
White’s first UF media day, which came more than four months after he was introduced as Billy Dono-van’s successor, that the 38-year old coach was asked to revisit the past.
“We’re all ready to turn the 
page, and this is about this year’s team,” White said.
Back in May, as White began to 
build for the future, his first step was to review what he was inherit-ing.
The coach wanted to pinpoint the mistakes of last year’s team, fix them, and then build on the posi-tives.
“We’re a different team. We’re 
a new staff,” White said. ”We’re going to have a bunch of new ways of doing things.”
That includes a new offensive 
and defensive philosophy, one that will be installed during practice over the next two months.
Florida will play with more 
pace offensively and press more on defense. 
Considering the team’s length, 
it makes sense — nine of UF’s 16 players are 6-foot-6 or taller.
“I think we’re an athletic team,” 
White said. “I’d like to play fast. I think that we can play fast offen- UF men's basketball set to tip off
OLE MISS' LAQUON 
TREADWELL RETURNED 
THIS YEAR FROM INJURY.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Florida’s secondary is con-
sidered one of the best in the na-
tion, but Saturday’s opponent will 
threaten the Gators in a way Ten-
nessee didn’t. 
Ole Miss has a bevy of talent at 
the wide receiver position.
Florida’s defensive backs will 
have their hands full against the Rebels as they face their toughest challenge yet — shutting down 
Ole Miss wide receiver Laquon 
Treadwell. 
Standing  
at 6-foot-2, 
Treadwell has 
made a name for 
himself the past 
two seasons in 
the Southeastern Conference. 
But last year, his season was cut 
short when he broke his fibula and dislocated his left ankle reaching for the endzone against Auburn, Gators preparing to 
face talented receiversSEE TEBOW,  PAGE 15
SEE WHITE,  PAGE 15“W e’re a different team. 
W e’re a new staff."
Mike White
UF basketball coach
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15White begins new era
Treadwell
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
Considering he was the team’s 
starting point guard, Kasey Hill 
seemed to disappear on the court 
last season.
Maybe it was the pressure of 
replacing former Florida guard 
Scottie Wilbekin as the team’s de 
facto ball handler or a loss of con-fidence when Hill found himself mired in a shooting funk that led to his underwhelming sophomore 
campaign.
Whatever the reason, Hill was 
hard on himself, perhaps to a det-
rimental level.
Even former coach Billy Dono-
van noticed a change in Hill’s ap-proach when he was faced with adversity.
But this season, Hill is trying 
to erase expectations, choosing instead to focus on upgrading his skill set.
“I don’t really have many ex-
pectations,” Hill said Tuesday at the team’s media day. “We just want to improve.
“I know that my main goal is 
proving everybody wrong.”
After Florida’s first losing sea-
son in 16 years, Hill knows that most outside the program have written the Gators off.
But that is to be expected with 
the departure of Donovan, along with the losses of starting shoot-
ing guard Michael Frazier II and 
the highly touted yet ultimately disappointing Chris Walker.
From what he’s seen in the 
brief period he’s spent working with new coach Mike White, Hill believes the more up-tempo style of play White is installing will benefit his game to a greater ex-
tent.
White has taken notice of 
Hill’s speed as well.
He went as far as to say the 
Umatilla native possesses next-
level athleticism that the Gators plan on utilizing to the fullest ca-pacity.
“Chris Chiozza and Kasey Hill 
are two of the fastest guys out there in college basketball. Kasey Hill may be the fastest,” White said.
“His speed and quickness, 
which are, to me, as fast as any-body in college basketball.”
Redshirt junior DeVon Walker 
said he’s also noticed an improve-
ment in Hill’s defensive intensity. 
Hill’s taken the onus upon him-self to guard whoever he’s as-signed, even if it’s the opponent’s 
best player or not.
“His energy is through the 
roof. He’s much more intense,” 
Walker said. 
“He’s ready to go out there and 
guard any guy that’s put in front of him. It’s just great to see him in 
this place right now.”
With the physical tools in 
place, Hill has concentrated his 
efforts on becoming a more re-
fined shooter. 
A career 59.1 percent shooter 
from the free throw line, includ-
ing a 52.6 percent mark last sea-son, Hill has often proved unreli-
able from the charity stripe. 
His ability to penetrate, get to 
the basket and draw a foul were 
often all for naught when Hill 
would fail to convert his foul 
shots.
Heading into the season, fixing 
Hill’s shot has become an early priority for White and his staff.
“Some of it is technique,” 
White said. “We’ve messed with Kasey’s stroke a little bit. He’s been open to that.
“You’ve got to give him credit. 
He’s a junior in college, and he’s changed the way he’s shot the basketball for the last 15 years.”
Kudos to Hill for being open to 
change, even though he’s under the impression that his low free throw percentage isn’t due to a flaw in his game.
“That was all mental. I’m a 
way better free throw shooter than what I showed last year,” Hill said. 
“I’m gonna show that this 
year.”
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
On a team full of new faces and young 
players, coach Mike White needs a leader, a 
veteran who can anchor the team and hold it together. 
He has that in redshirt senior Dorian 
Finney-Smith.  
Finney-Smith is one of just four players 
on Florida’s roster — along with Kasey Hill, DeVon Walker and Lexx Edwards — who has two years of playing experience for the Gators. 
But, as a fifth-year player on a young 
team with an unfamiliar coaching staff, his seniority has launched him into that leader-ship role. 
It’s a role that he admittedly isn’t used to 
having, but one that he’s willing to step into.
“Just to be more vocal,” Finney-Smith 
said on how he plans to improve this season. “I’m a laidback dude, so it’s kind of uncom-fortable to get out of myself.”
“Patric (Young) was a great leader. He 
was vocal, him and Scottie (Wilbekin). Also he led by example. I’ve got to do the same.”
White said he expects Finney-Smith to 
be the team’s leader after the Virginia Tech transfer emerged as a formidable option last season. 
In 2014-15, his first campaign as a starter, 
Finney-Smith averaged 13.1 points and 6.2 rebounds per game, both team-highs. White is hoping for more of the same this season from a frontcourt that boasts added depth and length. 
Along with 6-foot-11 center John Egbunu, 
who transferred from USF before the 2014-15 season, the Gators added freshmen forwards Kevarrius Hayes and Keith Stone, along with junior college transfer Justin Leon. 
“Dorian’s been our best player, and that 
was expected. We’re going to continue to challenge him to be more and more vocal 
and to lead,” White said. “He’s a guy that 
the rest of our team looks up to, especially between the lines.
“He’s been there and done that and 
played significant minutes on the Final Four 
team. He’s put up big numbers at times in a 
very, very competitive league. Especially our new guys look to Dorian for that leadership.”
Finney-Smith’s decision to return to Flori-
da and postpone his dreams of playing in the NBA helped the Mike White era get off to a positive start. 
But Finney-Smith admitted he was on the 
fence before eventually deciding to come 
back and finish his career at Florida. 
“I just wanted to finish what I started,” he 
said. “Last year, I didn’t want to go out like 
that. Hopefully I can change that.”
With a revamped, deep frontcourt, 
Finney-Smith now has the opportunity to lead a group of talented young players back to the winning ways that Florida became ac-customed to under Donovan. 
“We’re going to be pretty good,” Finney-
Smith said of the frontcourt. “We’ve got to just come together, communicate and talk. We’re playing with new faces.”
The Gators are focused on moving on 
from last year’s disappointing season, and Finney-Smith will play a critical role in Flor-ida’s progression. 
His teammates have taken notice of his 
leadership role on the team, and Devin Rob-inson said he can already see improvement in Finney-Smith’s leadership skills.
“He’s been a big leader of this program 
and this team,” Robinson said. 
“He’s been talking to all the freshmen, 
all the young guys, trying to get them going. He’s been a better leader than he was last year, for sure.” 14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
FLORIDA MEN’S BASKETBALL MEDIA DAY
Kasey Hill aims to disprove doubters 
Finney-Smith’s return critical for UF’s growthJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill drives during Florida’s 63-62 loss to T exas A&M on 
March 3 in the O’Connell Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith grabs a rebound during Florida’s 68-61 loss to Kentucky on Feb. 7 in the O’Connell Center. 
sidelining him for the Rebels’ last 
four games.
In the nine games he did play, 
Treadwell was productive, snag-ging 48 catches for 632 yards and five touchdowns.
Working hard through rehab, he 
was able to suit up for Ole Miss’ season opener. 
And so far, he’s proved that he 
hasn’t lost a step. 
In Ole Miss’ first four games this 
year, Treadwell has 22 receptions for 332 yards with one touchdown.
However, while he seemingly 
stands out from the rest of the Reb-
els, he isn’t the only wideout that 
UF’s secondary has to shut down. 
“He’s not the only receiver, al-
though how good he is," McElwain said. "He obviously stands out and 
should be noticed, but they’ve got 
other guys, too." 
McElwain believes Ole Miss’ 
group of wideouts — includ-
ing Cody Core, Quincy Ade-
boyejo, Damore’ea Stringfellow and Markell Pack — could cause damage if the Gators zero in on Treadwell.
Those four each have at least 10 
receptions and a touchdown this season, and they each present a danger to Florida’s defensive back-field.
“They’re going against these 
big, tall, fast wide receivers,” McEl-wain said. 
“We’ll see how they handle 
that.”
The Gators will need to bring 
a strong pass rush, pressuring Ole Miss quarterback Chad Kelly into making errant throws.
Like the team has emphasized 
all season, if UF’s front seven can apply pressure, the secondary will have a much easier job limiting Ole Miss’ opportunities to throw down-field. 
Florida safety Keanu Neal said 
he thinks the team is up to the chal-lenge of locking down Treadwell, but also admitted that the Rebels 
receiver impressed him with his 
aggressive, physical style of play. 
“He likes to get at you, get in 
your face,” Neal said. “He’s a smash mouth-type receiver.
“I honestly like it about him.”sively. To what extent defensively, 
we’ll find out.”
The former Louisiana Tech 
coach said his first task, before beginning to install an offense, is 
establishing an intense defense.
The players have taken notice. “I can say from workouts so 
far, the pace of the practices is 
so much faster,” redshirt senior 
Dorian Finney-Smith said.
White doesn’t plan on putting 
an offense in place until two or 
three weeks before the season be-
gins. 
By that time, White believes 
he’ll have a better grasp of his 
team’s strengths and weaknesses.
And while the players have only undergone limited practices so far — one-hour sessions just two or three times per week — most of them agree that White’s system fits their style of play.
“I like to run and gun, get up 
and down,” sophomore forward Devin Robinson said. 
“I really think that’s gonna help 
my game, help me flourish to be 
the player I can be. I think the style 
is going to really help us in the way we want to play.”
As much as White and his 
coaching staff will change Florida’s 
system, they will also keep what 
worked. 
He praised Florida’s half-court 
defense last year and asked return-ing players to identify aspects of 
last year’s team they thought were 
most successful.“He’s been great. From the 
first day he got here… he took the time to get to know a lot of us on a deeper level,” forward Alex Mur-phy said. 
“He obviously has a pretty 
good idea and a feel for the way we played and some of the things 
we did well and some of the things 
we didn’t do so well.”
Now, as practices begin and as 
the season draws closer, White is finished discussing the past.
Above all else, White wants 
to begin anew, just as he did four 
years ago at Louisiana Tech.
“There’s going to be some trial 
and error,” White said.
“The one thing we do know 
is we have all the support in the world. We have all the resources 
to be successful.”
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Safety Keanu Neal makes a tackle during Florida's 28-27 win against T ennessee on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mike White speaks to the media during the UF men's basketball media day on Tuesday at the UF Women's Club. 
WHITE,  from pg13UF added eight players to its roster 
looking for a different result than that early au-
tumn afternoon seven years ago, they can only hope for a moment as influential and impactful as 
the speech that is remembered on a plaque outside 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
“We missed our opportunities,” Tebow reflect-
ed Friday while in Gainesville with SEC Nation. 
“That game hurt but I think it really helped us 
overall as a team because I think we learned from it, we grew from it and our leadership improved, our focus improved and I think our attitude im-proved from that.”
It did.The team went 10-0 from that point forward, 
beating opponents by an average of 33.8 points per game on its way to a second national title in three years.
There was no lack of talent on that team, de-
spite the popular yet uninformed belief that Tebow was the sole reason for Florida’s success during the Urban Meyer era. 
There were 19 future NFL draft picks on that 
the 2008 roster, 11 of which were taken in the first 
or second rounds.But it took a low moment like that to spur some 
soul searching and kickstart the group.
“I was probably crying right after the game to 
be honest with you,” Tebow said. “Honestly, for a 
while I was just sitting with coach Meyer and we were just talking about it. 
“I was kind of leaning on the floor against him 
and we were talking about it. What we did. What we could do better. What we did wrong. Why did this happen?”
One could argue the Florida program hasn’t 
been able to get out from underneath that group’s shadow.
No team has had the personalities, the offense 
nor the success of the 2008 squad, and the UF fan base hasn’t been satisfied since.
With a big win Saturday, maybe this year’s 
team can begin to forge its own legacy and move past those days.
Or maybe Florida will lose. It worked out well 
last time. TEBOW,  from pg13Florida lost only to Ole Miss in 2008
“I was probably crying right after the game to 
be honest with you." 
Tim T ebow
Former UF quarterbackFOOTBALL,  from pg13Treadwell is back after 
season-ending injury
“They're going against these 
big, tall, fast wide receivers. 
W e'll see how they handle 
that.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 
