We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 142 MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
UF men’s golf ﬁ  nishes seventh at 
SECs
For a full roundup of UF sporting events from 
this weekend, see pg 15
Graham O to close for renovation
It will reopen in Fall as P .O.D. Market and Chomp It @ Graham 
Oasis, pg 8.
The Free Store gives clothing to trans people
Read about the local pop-up shop, pg 4.FL couple’s Movers & Shakers 
group provides support for patients with Parkinson’s
They receive care from a UF doctor, pg 4.
Alex Brown / Alligator
Sing a Song
Verdine White, bassist for Earth, Wind & Fire, performs with the rest of the band at the Wanee Music Festival on Friday. About 30 musical acts performed at the festival, which occurred Thursday through Saturday. For more pictures from the festival, turn to page 9.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
It’s easy to forget about that $18 per credit 
hour that’s funneled to Student Government. 
But this past year’s executive ticket spent it — almost exactly the way they promised they would in their platform.  
Student Body President Cory Yeffet ran un-
opposed with the Swamp Party last year, and his platform shared his goals to establish a nighttime transportation program for students and secure Newell Hall as a 24/7 study space. However, student safety became a priority af-ter the four on-campus attacks in Fall.
Other projects, such as solar-powered tables 
at the Hub and more funding for RecSports, 
were completed by his treasurer, Elliot Grasso.
“Through all of our completed projects and 
initiatives, we have signiﬁ  cantly enhanced the 
student experience and made it even greater to be a Florida Gator,” Grasso said.
Yeffet said one of his most challenging proj-
ects was launching Uber, a ridesharing service that came to Gainesville in Fall 2014.
A monthlong pilot Uber program was 
launched April 1 offering student discounts for rides on and near campus. Because it’s a pilot, SG is not paying for Uber to be stationed at UF.
“My hope is we can expand it,” Yeffet said.SG had to work with the Gainesville City 
Commission to revise the Transportation Net-work Company Ordinance to allow Uber to op-erate in Gainesville.
During Summer, Yeffet partnered with 
Gainesville and University Police for a taxi-cab 
stakeout to show that taxi drivers took advan-
tage of students by charging them higher rates.
Four Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol 
vans, which were paid for by UPD, were also added in Fall. Programs such as Walk Safe and the Blue Light Mobile Safety App were created for student safety in response to the string of attacks around campus last semester.Walk Safe, a volunteer program where stu-
dents accompany other students as they walk around campus at night, is now under UPD. Students are paid to walk other students at night from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m.
The Safety App, also called TapShield, was 
created under former Student Body President Christina Bonarrigo and ﬁ  nalized during Yef-fet’s term. The app cost $50,000 and uses GPS 
to alert police of the student’s location, Grasso 
said. Students can download the app at Tap-Shield.com.
SG also launched the ﬁ  rst weeklong Sexual 
Assault Awareness campaign to educate stu-dents about sexual assault and help prevent it. About 2,000 teal ribbons were tied around 
Looking back: SG leadership keeps its promises
CRIME
By Richard Johnson
Alligator Staff Writer
rjohnson@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
UF football player Saturday af-
ter he reportedly took part in an 
armed robbery at a Gainesville 
apartment complex.
At about 3:45 p.m. Saturday, 
Jerald Christopher “J.C.” Jack-
son, 19, visited the apartment of 
an acquaintance at the Canopy apartment complex on South-west 20th Avenue with two other people, according to a GPD sworn 
complaint.
Jackson contacted the ac-
quaintance earlier to hang out 
and smoke marijuana, according 
to the report. Witnesses told po-
lice that Jackson opened the door without knocking, looked inside and then quickly shut the door.The witnesses informed the 
acquaintance about what Jackson 
had done. The acquaintance then 
let Jackson and two unidentiﬁ  ed suspects into the apartment, ac-
cording to the 
report.
Jackson re-
portedly pre-
tended to take a phone call and 
backed out of 
the apartment, 
leaving the oth-
er ﬁ  ve people inside, according to 
the report.
Almost immediately after Jack-
son left, one of the unknown sus-
pects grabbed a small amount of marijuana off of a counter and 
pulled out a gun, according to 
the report. He demanded the resi-Florida football player 
arrested  in robbery
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
The result was the same. 
But the journey to get there was not.As the confetti streamed down upon the 
Fort Worth Convention Center on Saturday night, the UF gymnastics team jumped, yelled and joyously embraced while cel-
ebrating yet another national title. 
Florida had just overtaken Utah in a dra-
matic ﬁ  nal rotation of the Super Six com-
petition, scoring two 9.950s from junior Bridget Sloan and freshman Alex McMur-
try on the team’s ﬁ  nal two bars routines to give the Gators the slight 197.850-197.800 
advantage. 
With the victory, Florida became just 
the third program in NCAA women’s gym-nastics history to win three consecutive championships. 
Talk of a three-peat had been something 
discussed by media and fans all season.But for the team, it was an elusive ideal 
that was considered a distraction if talked 
about in the midst of the title pursuit.
But now, every coach and gymnast 
could proudly hold up three ﬁ  ngers while 
taking post-meet pictures.
Besides the number of ﬁ  ngers held up, Gators gymnastics team raises the bar with NCAA three-peatJackson
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 14SEE COPS,  PAGE 14New oicers sworn in this week
SEE SG, PAGE 5
GYMNASTICSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 142
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fulbright Days
The UF International Center will 
be hosting Fulbright Days during the month of April. Sponsored by the U.S. Department of State, 
the Fulbright program provides 
funding for students, scholars and faculty for graduate study and advanced research in various regions of the world.The informa-tion session for coordinators and advisors will be Monday from 1 to 2 p.m. at the International Center in the Hub. There will 
be two information sessions 
Tuesday on the U.S. Students Program, one at 9:35 a.m. at the International Center and one at 12:55 p.m. on the third floor of the Infirmary Building. The infor-mation session for faculty will be Thursday from 1 to 3 p.m. at the International Center. For more 
information, please visit ufic.ufl.
edu/Fulbright/index.html.
Finals Relaxation Week at 
Library WestOn Monday from 10 to 11 a.m. there will be coffee and doughnut holes on the second floor near the circulation desk. Tuesday from 3 
to 4 p.m. Orion the service dog 
will be on the first, second and third floors. Wednesday from 12 to 2 p.m. there will be chair massages in Room 212. Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m. there will be pizza and outdoor fun outside Library West.
Celebrate Earth Day at the 
Matheson MuseumBegin your Earth Day celebra-tion with Green Drinks at the Matheson History Museum on Tuesday from 6 to 9 p.m. Light refreshments will be served in the botanical gardens behind the mu-seum starting at 6 p.m.  Following 
drinks in the garden, there will be 
a screening of the award-winning documentary “Earth Days.” This film traces the evolution of the modern environmental move-ment through the stories of the era’s pioneers. Cinema Verde will offer beer, wine and refreshments for donations. Tickets are $10 for 
students and seniors and $12 for 
the general public.
Marjorie Harris Carr Earth Day Rediscovering Diamond Teeth 
MaryThe Matheson History Museum will spotlight the story of Diamond Teeth Mary with a pre-
sentation by award-winning jour-
nalist Pete Gallagher on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Diamond Teeth Mary is one of the many Florida women who contributed to the blues genre. As a young musi-cian she sang with Billie Holiday, Duke Ellington and Nat King Cole; she inspired Johnny Copeland to become a musician and per-formed at Carnegie Hall, the White House, the Apollo Theatre 
and the Cotton Club. For decades 
many thought her career in mu-sic had ended.  However, in the 1980s Pete Gallagher discovered and managed the comeback of Diamond Teeth Mary. Gallagher is a graduate of the University of Florida and was thrice nominated for the Pulitzer Prize. Admission 
is $5.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Gainesville Throwbacks
April 20, 1982
A public relations class broke a Guin-
ness Book World Record by building a leather wallet that was 3 feet by 5 feet with the intent of presenting it to President 
Reagan. “We want Gov. (Bob) Graham to 
bring the wallet with him to Washington when he tries to get federal funds for the state of Florida,” said UF student Richard Widick, a member of the class attempting the project.April 21, 1995The Oklahoma City bombing, which 
occurred April 19, 1995, spawned a wave of bomb threats throughout the country. UF received ﬁ  ve of its own threats, includ-
ing a phone call directly to UF President 
John Lombardi’s ofﬁ  ce. Tigert Hall was also threatened and subsequently evacu-ated for about an hour. “Maybe someone’s just playing some kind of senseless prank, but in light of Oklahoma, someone’s being a little more cruel than usual,” said the UF spokeswoman at the time, Linda Gray. As of press time, the university did not know who placed the phone calls. 
April 20, 2005
Two anonymous college students set 
up a website to raise $50,000 for their pet 
rabbit, Toby. They described Toby as “tru-ly remarkable” and “a ﬁ  ghter” and said they wanted to take Toby on trips around the world. But if the $50,000 was not raised, the two anonymous students said they would take Toby to a local butcher to have him slaughtered and prepared for a “midsummer feast.” The duo managed to raise $25,000 by the publication date, 
but UF junior James Bailey was shocked. 
“Who the hell would give them money?” he said. “I don’t want the rabbit to die, but I’m not going to give them any money.”
— ALLIGATOR STAFF4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015By Emily Cardinali
Alligator Staff Writer
ecardinali@alligator.org
Transitioning is expensive.
There’s any amount of therapy, 
because the World Profession-
al Association for Transgender 
Health has no minimum recom-mendation.
Then come hormone or testos-
terone therapies, potentially fol-lowed by surgeries.  
And throughout the transition, 
there are new clothes to buy for the changing body.
After Reilly Clemens transi-
tioned, she was in $11,500 of debt. To her, a surprising amount was in clothing alone.
But there’s a resource in 
Gainesville to help alleviate some of those clothing costs. The Free Store downtown in the Civic Me-dia Center is usually open twice 
a month to help trans people find 
clothes for free. The next store will be held Saturday from 2 to 6 p.m. 
To prepare for the store, vol-unteers from Wild Iris and the LGBTQ+ community heave card-board boxes and reusable shop-
ping bags into the bed of a single 
cab pickup truck and out onto tables. People sort and place the clothes by masculine, femme and then by size.
“Imagine if someone came 
in and threw away all your old clothes, and you had to buy new ones starting from scratch,” the 
27-year-old UF women’s studies 
master’s student said.
Crisp ironed pantsuits; worn, 
gray sweatpants; 6-inch high Jimmy Choos; and red-and-white-
striped Keds sat on a weathered 
picnic table in early February for the store.
Shirley Roseman, 25, is the 
organizer of the store. While she was at UF studying psychology and sociology, she volunteered at the LGBT Affairs office in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs 
department.
She and some of her friends 
had a clothing swap among them-selves, and it sparked the idea of 
the Free Store.
“A lot of our community mem-
bers are struggling,” she said. “Homelessness and job discrimi-nation are just a few problems. We are always thinking about how we can protect them.”
Clemens transitioned while 
at the University of Alabama’s School of Law in Tuscaloosa. Often, she said, for people who are transsexual and beginning to 
change their bodies, passing is 
paramount, especially considering how safe each person feels.“In Alabama,” she said, ”I 
didn’t feel super safe.”
For her, being comfortable 
meant being able to pass as a woman most of the time and be-ing free of the mistreatment that comes with questions like: “Are 
you a boy or a girl?”
Now, being comfortable is lik-
ing the way her body looks in her 
clothes.
LB Hannahs, the director of 
LGBT Affairs at UF, said one of the more difficult parts of finding clothes as a trans person is finding clothes that feel good in a way that 
expresses gender comfortably.
“Because you’re brought up 
in a culture that says you have to 
wear the clothes that fit the sex 
you were assigned at birth, you 
don’t have the cues and the train-ing built in to know necessarily how to dress ourselves in the gen-der identity,” said Hannahs, who 
identifies as genderqueer.
No one was there to teach Han-
nahs how to tie a tie, or teach 
Clemens how much or how lit-
tle makeup she needed. But the 
knowledge that comes from the experiences of people at the Free Store can help fill those gaps.
“You’re getting the knowledge 
that usually leaves that commu-nity when people are done transi-tioning,” Clemens said. “You get the, ‘Sweetheart, you don’t need a primer, a base, a foundation and 
a filler. You need one of the four,’ 
which is something I didn’t know, but you get that education in those sort of informal locations.”
It took a long time for Clemens 
to learn how to alter clothing and find jeans at thrift stores that have already been worn in and fit well. As her body was changing, the 
clothes she bought before didn’t 
fit anymore, and she spent a lot of money that way.
To save money, she shut the In-
ternet off at her apartment. Then, no more Netflix. She kept the air conditioner at 80 degrees for the dog and the heat at 60 degrees for the pipes.
Then she gave up her apart-
ment, and, finally, her vehicle in-surance.
“There are so many little things 
that you learn to give up,” she said. “Transition is expensive. What can you do?”By Michelle Neeley 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Church started to notice a slight 
tremor in his left pinky in times of high stress when he reached his 30s. 
The Naples resident was diagnosed with 
young-onset Parkinson’s disease on his 32nd birthday almost 20 years ago. 
But the diagnosis led him to meet 
his wife and fellow Parkinson’s patient, Gretchen Church, and create an outlet to help those suffering from the disease called 
Movers & Shakers, a national nonprofit or-
ganization that supports people with Par-kinson’s disease.
Now the couple receives treatment from 
Dr. Michael Okun at the UF Health Center 
for Movement Disorders and Neurorestora-
tion. 
Gretchen Church, also of Naples, said 
she felt like a walking Jell-O mold 17 years ago when she had trouble keeping up with her active daughter. After visiting a neu-
rosurgeon, she was also diagnosed with 
young-onset Parkinson’s disease at 32.
Before they met, the Churches struggled 
to find information about their disease or support from others who had it. 
The Churches connected in the early 
2000s over an AOL message board for peo-ple who had young-onset Parkinson’s. Mi-chael Church sent Gretchen an email ask-ing for her help starting an online support group for people with the disease.
Gretchen Church said she initially 
didn’t want to respond to the email. She didn’t want to think about having Parkin-son’s disease, let alone help start a support group for it.
But she eventually responded, and when 
asked to tell his story, Michael Church sent her the Naples Daily News article that fea-tured his life as a single dad with Parkin-
son’s raising four children. She agreed. 
Within three months of setting up the 
group, there were more than 350 members.
“I know there are people alive today be-
cause of that chat room,” Gretchen said.
They planned a young-onset Parkin-
son’s conference in Atlanta so those in the 
group could meet, and about 100 attended. 
The Churches met in person for the first 
time during the planning process.
“That was the first time I had ever met 
anybody or seen anybody else with young-onset Parkinson’s, and little did I know it would be my future husband,” Gretchen 
Church said.
The online support group eventually 
grew into what is now Movers & Shakers.
“We wanted to get into people’s lives,” 
Gretchen Church said. “We wanted to be 
able to sit on their couch and hug them and talk to them and get out from behind the monitor.”  
Their organization is now geared to-
ward all people with Parkinson’s, but it still maintains the original goal of connect-ing people to the resources and support they need.
“There are a million and one reasons 
to get out of the bed in the morning and do something,” Michael Church said, “but only one reason to stay in bed — to feel sorry for yourself.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gretchen Church (left) and Michael Church, both diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease at 32, pose for a photo. 
STATE
Parkinson’s patients connect through Movers & Shakers group
Local pop-up store provides free clothing for trans people 
The next one will be this Saturday
“Because you’re brought up 
in a culture that says you 
have to wear the clothes that 
fit the sex you were assigned 
at birth, you don’t have the 
cues and the training built in 
to know necessarily how to 
dress ourselves in the gender 
identity.”
LB Hannahs
director, UF LGBT AffairsMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
SWAMP PARTY PLATFORM: SPRING 2014
Student Life
Ensure the Reitz Union remains an open and useful 
space for students throughout the construction process.
The Reitz has not closed during construction.
Add more activity rooms in RecSports facilities to 
expand group fitness classes.
SB treasurer Elliot Grasso said he cut $100,000 in waste from 
the SG budget and gave to UF RecSports to add 15 group fitness classes, open two workout rooms at Student Recreational Cen-
ter and reopen two basketball courts at the Florida Gym.
Implement sustainable solar picnic tables that 
power phones and laptops.
Three solar picnic tables were added to the Hub costing a total 
of $31,000.
Increase restaurant options available on the meal plan
Subway and Wendy’s were added on the meal plan in Summer 2014.
Install more microwaves across campus to allow for 
more flexible dining options.
On the ground floor of the Reitz Union near the POD. The microwave cost about $200. 
Work with the Student Health Care Center to 
develop an online process for making appointments.
Accomplished in Summer 2014 costing no money.
 Academics
Fight to ensure that there is not an increase in tuition.
Advocated in Summer 2014 in T allahassee to fight against an increase in tuition. 
Expand on-campus and online tutoring options for students.
An Education Accessibility committee launched in Fall.
Decrease the cost and required use of access codes and class supplements.
Education Accessibility committee launched in Fall.
Install a capacity counter in Library West to allow 
students to view the number of available seats 
Library West and Marston Science Library are in the process of 
installing 50 high-resolution cameras in Spring. SG is not paying for the cameras.
Create a new, nighttime transportation service for students who live off-campus to get home safely.
Uber was brought to UF in Fall 2014 along with the addition of 
four SNAP vans.
Implement an on-campus bike-sharing program to 
provide students with a more convenient form of transportation.
Work in progress.Safety and Transportation
Advocate for reasonable taxi-cab rates and fair 
towing in the City of Gainesville.
A taxi-cab sting was conducted with Gainesville Police De-
partment and University Police to catch taxi drivers charging students higher rates.Student Organizations
Create a Diversity Programming Committee to collaborate with all cultural student organizations on campus to strengthen the cultural climate at the University of Florida.
The director of student activities and involvment meet monthly with these organizations.
Increase food scholarships available to student organizations.
Increased awareness and marketing for food scholarships.
Eliminate half the funding of student organization 
travel to allow for higher reimbursement of travel 
expenses.
Last Summer, the 800 codes were changed to allow student 
organizations to get refunds up to $350 per person for travel expenses.Increase study space on campus by turning Newell 
Hall into a 24/7 student study area.
Obtained $10 million from the State Legislature and $5 million 
from former UF President Bernie Machen for the construction of Newell Hall.
trees, and activist and rape survivor Angela 
Rose was brought to speak to students. The ribbons cost $450. Accent Speaker’s Bureau paid Rose $3,700.
Safety was also taken into consideration 
during the designs for Newell Hall, a con-demned building in the heart of campus. In the first few months of his term, Yeffet asked the State Legislature for funding when Gov. Rick Scott signed Florida’s 2014-2015 budget last Summer, which allocated almost $100 mil-lion to UF. About $10 million went toward the Newell Hall renovation.
The project was estimated to cost $13 mil-
lion, according to Alligator archives. Former UF President Bernie Machen donated $5 mil-lion for the renovation of the hall in Fall 2014.
Newell is currently undergoing renovations 
to become a new study space for students. It will include Au Bon Pain, a healthy dining option; a UPD campus substation; and an un-dergraduate research center, which will pair graduate students with undergraduates to help with research.
Yeffet said taking over Newell Hall was a 
long process, but in a survey, he found many students have requested more study space.
“The students want tangible change,” he 
said.
Wednesday will be Yeffet, Grasso and Vice President Vivan Nguyen’s last day in office. Last Friday, the new executive officers were sworn into office. Student Body President Jose-lin Padron-Rasines, Vice President Kevin Doan and Treasurer Nicholas Carre will officially be-gin their terms Wednesday.
Yeffet has one piece of advice for the incom-
ing officers: Don’t get caught up in the politics.
“As long as the end goal and the interest 
of the students is kept, that’s all that matters,” he said.
SG,  from pg1One of the biggest projects UF student leaders took up was NewellThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORAnti-immigration 
attitude in Europe 
costing lives
A boat laden with up to 950 people capsized in the Medi-
terranean Sea on Sunday. Its passengers were migrants bound for Europe escaping the limited opportunities, war and chaos of their home countries. The ship left from Libya, a failed state which has descended into 
civil war, where ISIS executes people on the beach. Who can blame them for wanting to leave?
At the time of this writing, 28 of the passengers have been 
rescued. More than 700 are feared to be dead, with only 24 of the bodies recovered so far.
It’s the second horrific shipwreck this month off the Libyan 
coast. On Wednesday, another migrant boat capsized, killing about 400 people.
 In terms of lives lost, these are two of the worst tragedies at 
sea since World War II. The families and the survivors affected by the disasters are experiencing unimaginable pain.
But, beyond the immediate consequences, the shipwrecks 
have profound implications for European politics.
There are many reasons why so many migrants have re-
cently died at sea. Human traffickers pack migrants onto rick-ety old boats — overcrowding makes the ship unstable and more likely to overturn. In the most recent case, 300 people were locked in the ship’s cargo hold, unable to escape.
But a major part of the problem is recent change in Euro-
pean policies enacted in response to the rising power of anti-immigrant parties and nativist attitudes on the continent. In the last few years, this ugly segment of the European right has been growing, infecting nearly every member of the European Union. 
France has the Identitarian movement, a far-right youth 
movement dedicated to reversing the social revolutions of the ‘60s. In Germany, there’s PEGIDA, a loose gaggle of rabidly 
Islamophobic and anti-immigrant street protesters. Its found-
er, Lutz Bachmann, resigned in disgrace after he was caught dressing up like Adolf Hitler. On Facebook, he regularly refers to immigrants as “cattle” and “trash.” Bachmann was voted back into the group in February.  
Groups like these aren’t representative of the whole conti-
nent, but they do embody an anti-immigrant ideology that’s becoming more and more mainstream. British pundit and columnist Katie Hopkins has referred to immigrants as “cock-
roaches” and suggested they be turned back with gunships. 
After Sunday’s sinking, she suggested a unique solution to the problem of immigrant-laden boats sinking in the sea: Burn ev-ery boat in North Africa.
These attitudes have begun to affect public policy. Euro-
pean countries used to patrol the Mediterranean and rescue ships like the ones that sank this month. In response to grow-ing nativist attitudes at home, though, Europe has scaled back this program on the auspices that it encourages immigration.
The change shows up glaringly in statistics. At least 900 
immigrants have already drowned in the Mediterranean this year. In the same time frame in 2014, only 90 people did. In all of 2014, more than 3,000 people perished, compared to a total of 700 the year before.
Not crazy about the idea of immigration? That’s acceptable. 
Everyone’s entitled to an opinion; for one reason or another, some don’t like immigrants. But when policies made to cater to this opinion result in a more than 300-percent increase in 
people literally dying, it’s time to back down.Federal intervention in education is failing our kids
Denisha Merriweather recently wrote 
about her schooling experience in The Wall Street Journal. She was in fourth grade, and she hated school. She was held back twice, disliked going to school 
and thought she would end up as a high school dropout. She grew up with her biological mother but moved around a lot, which took a heavy toll on her grades and enthusiasm for learning. In her own words, “learning had become a nightmare — a punishment for being a child.” Denisha’s story is not a unique one. Unfortunately, there are kids in all 50 states who resent education. Some of these negative frame-works are out of the government’s control, but I would argue 
most of it is due to an educational system stuck in the 20th 
century and bogged down by bureaucracy. We all know edu-cation reform is desperately needed, but no one, especially our elected officials, is ever willing to confront the problem. 
In the last 15 years, the federal government has tried to fix 
education but has failed miserably every time. Former Presi-dent Bush signed into law the No Child Left Behind Act, but over a decade later, we have nothing to show for it. A study done by Stanford University in 2013 found if the goal of the 
act was to close racial achievement gaps, “There is no evi-
dence that NCLB-style accountability has led to any substan-tial narrowing.” National standardized testing that creates a culture of teaching to the test has failed and will always fail. 
President Barack Obama has had his own take on educa-
tion reform with his Race to the Top program, which permits grants to states that adopt performance-based evaluations of teachers, embrace standards like those in Common Core and allow for the expansion of charter schools. While Race to the 
Top is relatively new and statistics regarding its success are 
scarce, many of its provisions have been tried and failed in the past. Critics from the Democracy and Education Journal contend the plan focuses on high-stakes testing and account-ability with a track record of disappointment, creates a false savior in charter schools and hurts minority students.
The commonality between Bush’s and Obama’s crack at 
education reform is the mandates came from the federal lev-el. How can we possibly believe that a one-size-fits-all policy from D.C. politicians and bureau-crats can magically fix all our education woes?
Let’s try something new. Since the Department 
of Education was created in 1979 under President 
Carter, we have spent more than $1.3 billion to 
improve test scores and children’s learning abil-ity, but according to the National Assessment of Education Progress, test scores have flat-lined. In 1971, the reading test score for 17-year-olds was 285 out of 500. In 2012, the score was just 
two points higher. In 1973 the math score was 304 and only inched up to 306 in 2012. The Department of Education has proven to be a waste of money and needs to be eliminated.  
But we can’t stop there. More needs to be done, including 
discussing teacher unions. The unions represent the great-est blockade to education reform as they focus solely upon raising members’ wages, growing membership and stopping the implementation of performance-based pay. We have all these leaders, lawyers and politicians protecting teachers, but who is protecting our kids?
At the same time, unions’ opposition to such things like 
performance-based pay is understandable because scores 
from individual students could be lowered due to problems at 
home. This past week, Kyle Schwartz, an elementary school teacher in Denver, had her students complete the following sentence on a notecard: “I wish my teacher knew…” Some heartbreaking responses included “Sometimes my reading log is not signed because my mom is not around a lot.”
Education reform is tricky because not one person or or-
ganization has the answers. But it’s time we come together and insist our leaders make it their No. 1 priority on every 
level of government. It’s important for students like Deni-
sha Merriweather, who later took advantage of Florida’s tax-credit scholarship program, went to private school and would eventually graduate from the University of West Flor-ida. Let’s fix education so that every child, like Denisha, can love going to school.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political science senior. 
His column appears on Mondays.
MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
I went to the Paynes Prairie lookout off of 441 on Saturday to show my 
aunt, who is visiting from Vermont, the beautiful wildlife of Florida. We got 
to encounter a 6-foot alligator sunning itself right by the dock. Unfortunately, 
the awe was cut short upon seeing a ton of empty bottles ﬂ  oating beside the 
alligator.
I never really thought much about how littering really affected us until 
now. I was always told not to litter because it’s bad for the environment. It really seemed to hit home for me yesterday though. Paynes Prairie is a gorgeous part of Alachua County that is free to the public to come out and enjoy. It really bothered me to see this beautiful alligator — the mascot of our school — wade among the ﬁ  lth of people’s trash. I think actually seeing it in person solidiﬁ  ed the horror of littering in a way I would have never imagined.
Maria Hyde
UF political science freshmanWhen even Elmo supports vac-cination, it’s hard to believe there are people out there who 
are so vehemently against it. 
Since “Sesame Street” is a show 
that strives to remain inclusive and neu-
tral, something would have to have a pret-
ty strong scientiﬁ  c consensus in order for Elmo to outright endorse it.
Like Elmo, I also question 
why there is such an uproar over 
vaccines with scant scientiﬁ  c 
evidence to back it up. Increas-
ingly, people who project utter pseudoscience have become the loudest voices in the national conversation on health. Once 
something is claimed to be “un-
safe” it’s very hard to take back that claim — just look at the research that “proved” that autism was caused by vac-
cines. 
It was retracted, and its author was 
stripped of his medical license. Despite 
this idea being fully discredited, “anti-vaxxers” like Jenny McCarthy still per-
petuate the results as facts.
This allows people without any kind of 
scientiﬁ  c accreditation to control the dis-
course on health in the U.S. Their claims 
go from relatively harmless to completely 
alarmist and distract from real issues.
Vani Hari, also known as Food Babe, 
has championed many causes from trying to get Starbucks to make its drinks with 
only organic milk to getting the “yoga 
mat” out of Subway’s bread, with varying success. She thinks people should not in-gest any chemicals, which is pretty much 
impossible considering water is a chemi-
cal.
However, she seems to just pick out 
the ones that are hard to pronounce in or-der to fulﬁ  ll her own selﬁ  sh mission, mis-
interpreting the conclusions of scientiﬁ  c 
studies. But Hari’s thousands of followers trust her conclusions instead of investigat-ing the claims themselves. Using Hari’s 
logic, anything hard to pronounce is toxic.Maybe if Americans got more of their 
health advice from people who are ac-
tually qualiﬁ  ed to give it, we would not 
have as many alarmist conspiracy theories 
ﬂ  oating around. But even people who are seemingly qualiﬁ  ed can give questionable advice, making it hard to sort out what’s 
accurate and what’s not.
One example of this is Dr. 
Oz, who has used his show to 
raise alarms about the amount of arsenic in apple juice, when 
in fact the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration was just setting a standard for arsenic in apple juice that was the same as in 
drinking water.
Just as the public must be 
informed, it must also not be 
alarmed unnecessarily. We need to start 
thinking critically before we accept things 
as truth. For instance, there was a com-
pletely legitimate reason for Subway’s bread containing an ingredient also used in yoga mats — the ingredient used to 
stabilize yoga mats is the same ingredient 
used to stabilize bread. But that doesn’t mean that there is yoga mat material in bread, as Hari claimed.
On almost every show, Dr. Oz claims 
to have a new miraculous cure of some sort. A study published in the British Med-ical Journal found that more than half of his claims were false. 
And yet he’s still called America’s doc-
tor, and the public still trusts him. Dr. Oz, of all people, should understand why it’s important people are informed with accu-rate information.
Instead of latching on to the next con-
spiracy theory or health fad, we need to start thinking more scientiﬁ  cally. It’s easy, comforting even, to think changing one 
thing will make you healthier. But don’t 
accept things as fact just because you see them on TV. Question them.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
freshman. Her column appears on Mon-
days.Let’s end pseudoscience hysteriaColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“It really bothered me to see this beautiful 
alligator — the mascot of our school — 
wade among the ilth of people’s trash. I 
think actually seeing it in person solidiied 
the horror of littering in a way I would 
have never imagined.”When I was an electrical en-
gineering student, most of my 
classmates looked like me and 
thought like me. Companies have 
learned in recent decades that having a workforce that consists mostly of white male engineers 
narrows their perspective and 
limits their capacity to innovate. We have learned that organiza-tions are more likely to be successful over the long term if their members contribute 
racial, cultural, gender, geographic and dis-
ciplinary breadth. Similarly, top universi-ties increasingly have students and faculty who bring a rich tapestry of knowledge and 
understanding due to their different races, 
religions and numerous other areas of ex-perience and perspective.  
The University of Florida aspires to 
have a global reputation as one of the 
very best universities in the world. In or-
der to achieve this aspiration, we increas-ingly need students, faculty and staff who contribute to the community from a great 
breadth of perspectives and backgrounds.
I have been so impressed in my ﬁ  rst se-
mester with UF’s broadly diverse Student 
Body. However, there are two areas for which I have higher aspirations. First, as 
reported in The Independent Florida Alliga-
tor and other newspapers, we have work to do in increasing the number of African-American students, who have slipped from 
9 percent to less than 7 percent of our un-
dergraduates, with pronounced declines among African-American men.
Second, only 7 percent of our undergrad-
uates come from another state or country. 
The Business Journals recently ranked UF 
seventh in the nation among all public uni-versities. Our scores for quality and stature were among the very best, but our score for 
diversity, particularly geographic diversity, 
was among the lowest. Indeed, only 1 per-cent of our undergraduates are citizens of another country.
As we plan a path for the future, we are 
taking action today. We will increase need-based ﬁ  nancial aid, and we will double down on our strategic recruitment of students. We are 
also committed to providing an 
environment in which all mem-bers of the Gator community can be successful both person-
ally and academically. When the 
renovated Reitz Union opens in December, the new Multicultural 
& Diversity Affairs center will serve as an exceptional space for enhancing UF’s sup-
port environment, augmenting the continu-
ing work and contributions of the Institute of Black Culture and La Casita.  
When we study and collaborate with 
students and faculty who are different from 
us, we become better individually, our life-
time network of friends and colleagues grows and our university becomes stron-ger. I am very glad that not everyone at UF looks like me nor thinks like me. I intend 
to celebrate and learn from our differences. 
I know that this will make me a better per-son and leader.
I offer my very best wishes to all UF stu-
dents on your exams, papers and projects as we conclude the academic year. This is an intense and stressful time, so I pray not only for your academic success, but also that in the midst of your work, you will be 
safe and ﬁ  nd joy.
UF President Kent Fuchs contributes 
semiregular columns.The importance of thinking diﬀ  erentlyColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“W e are also committed 
to providing an 
environment in which 
all members of the 
Gator community can be 
successful both personally 
and academically.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Empty bottles and other miscellaneous pieces of garbage surround an alligator as it sits half-sub-
merged beside the look-out dock off U.S. 441 on Payne's Prairie.8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffPlaying Games
Benjamin Bryant, 25, of Lake City, plays “Super Smash Bros. for Wii U” at GatorLAN outside the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom on Saturday. “Smash Bros. ” pits up to eight players against each other in an arena where they can use attacks and items to ﬁ  ght each other.LOCAL
THE SYSTEM IS EXPECTED 
TO INCREASE ROADWAY 
CAPACITY BY 5 OR 7
PERCENT.
By Chris Watkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville trafﬁ  c will soon 
ﬂ  ow a little bit smoother.
The city is now in the pro-
cess of optimizing its new adap-
tive trafﬁ  c control system, which went online March 31, said Russ Blackburn, Gainesville city man-
ager.
The system has been in the 
works since 2002 and costs an es-
timated $18 million, he said, with the latest system update costing 
$172,750.
“By making this investment, 
we are able to increase the ef-
ﬁ  ciency and performance of our 
existing roadway system,” he 
said.
The automated system, which 
is connected through a ﬁ  ber-optic grid, optimizes the trafﬁ  c lights 
within the city and those the city 
manages throughout Alachua County, he said. 
It can reduce the time that driv-
ers spend stopped at red lights.
Compared to the old sys-
tem, the updated system adapts to changes in trafﬁ  c ﬂ  ow, said Chris LeDew, director of the Flor-ida Transportation Technology Transfer Center in the UF Trans-
portation Institute.
Gainesville originally had a 
ﬁ  xed-time system, which means 
the length of the green and red 
lights is set. 
And there is generally very 
little change depending on trafﬁ  c 
volume.
“The adaptive system is more 
active,” LeDew said.
In order to achieve this, cam-
eras had to be added to all trafﬁ  c lights and then connected via the ﬁ  ber-optic grid system, Blackburn 
said. 
The grid allows a team of traf-
ﬁ  c controllers to regulate and op-
timize trafﬁ  c ﬂ  ow.
The system was funded by 
the City of Gainesville, Alachua 
County, UF and the Florida De-
partment of Transportation, he said.
Blackburn estimates with 
this new trafﬁ  c control system, Gainesville should be able to in-crease the capacity of its existing roadways by 5 to 7 percent.  New traﬃ   c control 
system implemented 
in Alachua County
IT WILL BE EXPANDED 
AND RENAMED.
By Aaron Zeiler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Residents returning to the Gra-
ham, Hume or Tolbert areas will 
not see the Graham Oasis they’ve grown used to. 
Gator Dining Services is closing 
Graham Oasis, affectionately called Graham O, at the end of the semes-ter for renovation and expansion. It will ofﬁ  cially be called P.O.D. Mar-ket and Chomp It @ Graham Oasis. 
“This store has not been reno-
vated in several decades,” wrote Jill Rodriguez, marketing manager for Gator Dining Services, in an email. “It needs an overall refresh.”
A Chomp It restaurant will re-
place the Boar’s Head sandwich station, but its grill and P.O.D. Market will stay as they are.
Renovations are expected to be-
gin May 4, and Rodriguez said the store will reopen for Fall 2015.
P.O.D. Market and Chomp It @ 
Graham Oasis will still be open un-
til 3 a.m., Rodriguez said. The meal plan will be accepted at Chomp It 
seven days a week for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
However, Natalia Tohmé, a 
19-year-old UF public relations freshman, said she is not excited 
about the renovations.
“They should keep Boar’s 
Head,” the Simpson resident said. 
“Boar’s Head has great quality meat and cuts.”
She said there is already a 
Chomp It by the stadium, so there’s no need to build another.
“I don’t think Chomp It is even 
close (to Boar’s Head),” she said.  Graham O to close for renovation
“By making this 
investment, we are able to 
increase the eiciency and 
performance of our existing 
roadway system.”
Russ Blackburn
Gainesville city managerMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
A Wanee Music Festival attendee relaxes in a hammock on Saturday. Located on the Spirit of the Su-
wannee Music Park in Live Oak, Florida, the music festival allowed guests to camp during the three days of the event.
Below:  A pair of Wanee Music Festival attendees rest their feet be-
tween musical performances on Friday.
Above: A Wanee Music Festival participant dances with a hula 
hoop on Friday during instrumental gospel band The Word’s per-formance.
BRINGING ON THE 
GOOD VIBES AT 
SPIRIT OF SUWANEE
Thirty-three musical acts: From instrumental gospel rock to music your parents 
grooved to in the ‘60s, the Wanee Music Festival had them all. On Thursday, hun-dreds of music lovers gathered in the Spirit of the Suwannee Music Park in Live Oak to listen to a string of concerts that lasted through Saturday. Here’s a look at some of the good vibes from the festival.
Photos by Alex Brown / AlligatorMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-12-15-32-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● 
Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. 
Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. 
Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
Get your Gator on!
Gold & silver gator lapel pins
$5 each or $30 per dozen
IFAS Extension Bookstore
www.ifasbooks.com/352-392-1764
4-22-15-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 7 ComputersMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR  11
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
5-14-14-25-13 
www.Skinnteaglobal.com
Learn how to lose 5 lbs in 5 days with our fat 
burning tea. Income opportunity available. 
352-275-8561    4-22-6-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for 
various positions. Flexible schedules and 
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-
14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
4-22-15-9-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time (Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + 
benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke 
in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   
4-22-15-8-14
Hiring Vet Techs. Animal experience pre-
ferred. Salary commensurate with abili -
ties, full-time benefit pkg included. Apply at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W. Newberry Rd, Newberry.    4-20-15-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Perform all aspects of property leasing, in-cluding but not limited to, lease of property, resident verification, file completion, answer -
ing phones, customer satisfaction, preparing newsletter, assist in planning resident func-tions. Perform all tasks in a timely manner. To obtain a complete job description, visit our website at www.emmergroup.com/about-us/careers.   4-21-15-5-14
Timber Ridge Camp of High View, WV is seeking an Aquatics director for the summer of 2015. Candidate must be or able to obtain lifeguard and WSI prior to Camp. Position runs June 11-Aug 8th. Travel and Room and Board Provided. Please apply online at www.trcamps.com or call 410-833-4080    4-20-15-4-14
Hiring Reporters, Content
Writers and Copy Editors in
Jacksonville, write on digital/
email mktg at MarketingSherpa 
Apply at meclabs.com/careers
5-12-15-5-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working stu-dent for part-time work in land mainte-nance on weekends. Begin $10/hr. Contact TrueheartofFlorida@gmail.com    5-14-15-5-14
Coastal Georgia In-residence position - Housekeeper/Server - Greyfield Inn on Cumberland Island. Dining experience and some knowledge of wine required. $28,500/year plus room and board. Inquire: seashore@greyfieldinn.com    4-22-15-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 23 Rides 18 PersonalsMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
"I have worn my white pants 
for 3 National Championship titles.... I have been told to never get rid of the white pants!!" UF gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn (@UFCoachRhonda)Women's basketball signs two
Junior college transfers Tyshara Fleming and Simone Westbrook signed National Letters of Intent with the UF women's basketball team. T ebow time in Philly?
Multiple media outlets have reported that former UF quarterback Tim 
T ebow will sign with the Philadelphia Eagles today.By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Peter Alonso ﬁ  nally found his groove.
After missing the ﬁ  rst 30 games of the 
year with a broken foot and putting up sub-par numbers since his return, the sopho-more came up clutch in the Florida baseball 
team’s series ﬁ  nale against Mississippi State.
Alonso belted out his ﬁ  rst two home runs 
of the season and went 4-for-5 at the plate as 
the No. 8 Gators (31-10, 12-6 Southeastern 
Conference) defeated the Bulldogs (22-19, 6-12) 10-5 on Sunday in Starkville, Missis-
sippi.
The win gave Florida its second consecu-
tive series sweep and its ﬁ  rst on the road.
“It’s hard to sweep anybody in this league 
at home, let alone being on the road, espe-
cially at a place like Mississippi State,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release. “I 
thought we had a really good frame of mind today, we talked about that for quite some time this morning before we got off the bus. When you have an opportunity to sweep a 
series, you have to play your best baseball 
and I thought they did.”
The Gators opened up scoring with a 
two-RBI single in the ﬁ  rst inning from clean-
up hitter Josh Tobias, scoring Dalton Guth-
rie and Richie Martin.
An Alonso solo shot gave the Gators a 3-0 
advantage in the top of the fourth before the Bulldogs scored three runs in two innings 
off a two-run home run from Gavin Collins 
in the fourth and a Ryan Gridley sac ﬂ  y in the ﬁ  fth.
But it was almost all Florida from there.UF outscored Mississippi State 7-2 in the 
ﬁ  nal four frames and out-hit the Bulldogs 7-3 in the ﬁ  nal stretch.
Junior Taylor Lewis, who has served as 
a closer for the bulk of the season, earned the win after tossing 4.2 innings in relief of freshman starter Alex Faedo. Lewis gave up just three hits and two unearned runs with 
32 of his 47 pitches going for strikes.
Florida returns to McKethan Stadium for 
a midweek matchup against Bethune-Cook-
man on Tuesday. First pitch is set for 7 p.m.
Series Notes:  Florida outscored Mis-
sissippi State 18-9 in the three-game se-ries. … The Gators’ starting pitchers posted 
a 3.38 ERA, giving up 15 hits and seven 
earned runs in 18.2 innings of work. They also struck out 10 batters while walking just one.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Peter Alonso bats during Florida's 14-3 win against South Carolina on April 11 at McKethan Stadium. Alonso hit his 
first two home runs of the season during the Gators' 10-5 win against Mississippi State on Sunday. The win gave UF its sec-ond consecutive series sweep. Florida is now 12-6 in SEC play, which is tied for first in the Eastern Division.
Sophomore hits two home runs, UF sweeps Mississippi State
“It's hard to sweep anybody in this 
league at home, let alone being on 
the road, especially at a place like 
Mississippi State.”
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach
AIR JORDAN
Rhonda Faehn is building a dynas-ty.
The impact she 
has made on the 
Gators gymnastics team 
throughout her past 13 years has been nothing short of spectacular.
Some might even say 
Faehn-tastic.
Since 2003, her ﬁ  rst year at the 
helm of UF’s program, Faehn has led 
Florida’s program to four Southeastern 
Conference titles, 10 NCAA Regional titles and 10 Super Six appearances.
But the icing on the cake has come in the last three years, when she has led Florida to the NCAA Promised Land, 
winning back-to-back-to-
back national titles.
And she’s just getting 
started.
With the talent Faehn 
constantly brings into UF’s program — especially as of late — the Florida gymnas-
tics team will be a contender as long as 
she remains head coach.
Sure, they’ve had their fair share of 
mishaps. UF gymnastics isn't done winning
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
As Kytra Hunter walked off the ﬂ  oor for 
the ﬁ  nal time, coach Rhonda Faehn gave 
her a long hug.
Next came the assistant coaches, then 
Bridget Sloan. 
Fellow competitors from other teams waited 
nearby to get their chance. Everyone wanted to give Hunter a proper goodbye.
Hunter gave herself a proper goodbye, too.The senior ended her collegiate career Sunday 
by winning the 2015 NCAA ﬂ  oor title, adding to an already accomplished career and one of the best weekends a gymnast can have.
Hunter scored a 9.9625 in the event, just beat-
ing Denver’s Nina McGee and Oklahoma’s Brenna Dowell by 0.0125. The title was the second individ-ual championship of the weekend for the senior. She also won the 2015 NCAA all-
around title on Friday in addition to being 
part of Florida’s Super Six title Saturday.
“Winning ﬂ  oor means everything 
to me,” Hunter said, “and being able to represent the University of Florida means even more. Honestly, this is the best way to end my senior year and I’m just so 
proud.”
Junior Bridget Sloan ﬁ  nished second on vault 
and bars with a 9.925 and 9.9500, respectively.
On beam, Hunter ﬁ  nished tied for ﬁ  fth with a 
9.875 and freshman Alex McMurtry ﬁ  nished tied for eighth with a 9.825.
Freshman Kennedy Baker ﬁ  nished 12th on ﬂ  oor 
with a 9.775, while junior Bridgette Caquatto ﬁ  n-ished 15th with a 9.3375. Caquatto’s legs gave out on her ﬁ  nal tumbling pass, likely due to fatigue from competing three days in a row.Senior caps career with ﬂ  oor title
Hunter
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15though, the scene after the com-
petition was not much different from the two seasons before it. 
But deep down, this title was 
different.
“It was not easy this year,” 
coach Rhonda Faehn said. “By 
far, it was the hardest champi-
onship won of the three — by far the hardest. But the most meaningful.”
Sloan agreed.
“This championship obvi-
ously means a lot because it’s 
our third one in a row,” Sloan said, “but it means the most to 
me just because I didn’t think I 
was gonna be a part of it.”
The reason: Sloan’s season 
could have ended just as soon as it began. 
And that was just one of 
the curveballs thrown Florida’s way this year.
In the opening meet of the 
season at Ball State, just after scoring a perfect 10 on vault, Sloan landed awkwardly on her right foot during the ﬁ  nal pass of her ﬂ  oor routine and suffered 
a severe ankle sprain. 
The initial feeling was the 
year was over — for Sloan and 
Florida.
“With (Sloan) going down in 
the ﬁ  rst meet of the year, every-body’s stomach just dropped,” 
Faehn said, “and anything 
going through my head was ‘We’ve lost her for the entire season.’
“And any thoughts of try-
ing to win or get to the end of a 
national championship without 
Bridget — probably not gonna happen.”
While Sloan ultimately did 
return, the road back wasn’t 
easy for her or the team.
In the same Ball State meet, 
senior Jamie Shisler suffered a season-ending torn Achilles tendon.
In the third meet of the year, 
Florida fell on the road at Ala-
bama with a sub-par perfor-mance, causing senior Kytra 
Hunter to call a meeting in the 
team hotel that night to say that everyone needed to dig deeper and give more.
Freshman Kennedy Baker 
suffered a concussion during training in the ﬁ  fth week of the season and was unable to travel to Arkansas for the team’s com-
petition that week.
McMurtry dealt with the 
crippling effects of stress frac-
tures in her back the entire sea-
son, an injury that limited the 
freshman to only participating in a quarter of the team’s train-ing throughout the year.
Sophomore Claire Boyce 
dealt with a nagging groin in-jury for the ﬁ  nal third of the season.
Senior Rachel Spicer compet-
ed with a sprained ankle for the ﬁ  nal two weeks of the season. Her mother was also diagnosed with cancer earlier in the year.
Florida never had the same 
exact lineup in consecutive weeks and lost three times in the regular season — the pro-gram’s most losses since 2009. 
The team also choked away 
a massive lead and an assured conference title after suffering two falls and a break on the balance beam during the South-
eastern Conference Champion-
ships.
As for Sloan, she went 
through six weeks of relentless 
rehab to return on bars against 
LSU midway through the year and slowly added events as the season winded down, pushing herself as far as she could go to 
be ready for the postseason.
Sometimes her training was 
limited. Sometimes she didn’t train at all. 
But she persevered, as did 
her team. 
It showed Saturday night.
“Our motto this year was to 
have heart,” Hunter said after 
the meet. 
“We deﬁ  nitely had so much 
heart today.”
Hunter and the senior class 
leave with a legacy of three 
rings in four years.
Bridget Sloan’s legacy of three titles in three years con-tinues.
McMurtry and her fellow 
freshmen’s legacy begins with a title of their own.
Those are great accomplish-
ments. 
But few things will match 
the accomplishment of what was overcome this season.
“This championship will 
obviously have a very special 
place in my heart,” Sloan said.14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
Javier Fernandez / Courtesy to the Alligator
Florida’s Bridget Sloan (left) and Alex McMurtry celebrate dur-
ing the 2015 NCAA gymnastics championships on Saturday in Fort Worth, T exas. Sloan and McMurtry sealed the Gators’ third straight title with back-to-back 9.95s on the uneven parallel bars.
GYMNASTICS,  from pg 1UF didn’t use same lineup in consecutive weeks
dents “get on the ground and empty 
their pockets.”
The armed suspect pressed the 
gun to the acquaintance’s face and demanded to know where they could ﬁ  nd money and drugs, according to the report. 
While the armed suspect searched 
a room, the other suspect took money from all three residents’ pockets. They collected $382 and two gaming sys-tems from the living room and then left 
the apartment, according to the report.
According to the report, all that was 
known about Jackson’s whereabouts 
at the time was he was not in the 
apartment. He had ﬂ  ed by the time the 
acquaintance went back outside. 
The suspects were seen leaving in 
a red Nissan-type car, and Jackson turned himself in later on Saturday at 
the Alachua County Jail, GPD spokes-
man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Ofﬁ  cers arrested Jackson for felony 
robbery with a ﬁ  rearm. Police took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $150,000 bond.
Jackson, a redshirt freshman cor-
nerback, was expected to compete for 
playing time this season.
He sat out last season after injuring 
his shoulder in UF’s 2014 season-open-
er against Eastern Michigan.
“We are aware of the news involv-
ing J.C. Jackson and he is currently dealing with a serious issue,” Florida coach Jim McElwain said in a state-ment Sunday morning. “We don’t con-
done any of his actions and it is not 
something that reﬂ  ects on the expec-tations we have in the program. It is being handled accordingly due to the 
severity of his actions.” COPS,  from pg 1Jackson’s 
bond is set 
for $150,000Staff Report
The Florida men’s golf team fin-
ished tied for seventh place at the 
Southeastern Conference Champion-ships, shooting a 2-over-par in St. Si-mons Island, Georgia, this weekend.
The Gators ended the three-round 
tournament 15 shots off of eventual winner LSU.
Seniors J.D. Tomlinson and Eric 
Banks both finished their final SEC Championship tournament in the top-25 along with freshman Alejan-dro Tosti.
Tomlinson continued to lead the 
team and finished the tournament tied for 11th place after shooting 2-under-par.
Tosti shot 1-under-par for a share 
of 17th and Banks shot 1-over-par and finished tied for 23rd.
“I’m so proud of the guys,” coach 
JC Deacon said in a release. “We’ve come so far this year, and it’s a com-
pletely different team than we had 
in September…. I don’t think we played our best golf this week, but we hung so tough and tried on ev-ery shot, and I think we had a pretty good finish.”
Junior A.J. Crouch finished the 
tournament tied for 44th after shoot-ing 6-over-par in the tournament and 
sophomore Ryan Orr finished the 
tournament at 12-over-par.
The Gators will return to action 
in May when they head to one of six NCAA Regional Championship tour-naments.
-RYAN SUMMERS
Women’s Golf:  The Florida 
women’s golf team finished the final round of the SEC Tournament 4-over par to bring their team total to 22-over, good for a sixth-place finish.
The late surge from the Gators 
can be attributed to sophomore Karolina Vlckova. Over the last three tournaments, Vlckova has led the Gators with consecutive top-10 fin-ishes.
On Sunday, Vlckova recorded 
five birdies to combat a bogey and a double-bogey on hole nine, to give 
her a team-low score of 2-under-par 
– moving her from 33 to a tie for 17 in the individual leaderboards. This is her sixth top-25 finish this season and the ninth in her collegiate career.
-JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Softball:  This year’s version of 
the Florida and Georgia softball se-ries has come to an end with only two games being played.
Game 3 of the series was can-
celled Sunday because of inclement weather.
No makeup for the game has 
been announced.
No. 2 Florida (43-4, 13-4 South-
eastern Conference) swept a double-header from the No. 11 Bulldogs (35-13, 11-9 SEC) on Saturday after Friday’s game was also cancelled be-
cause of inclement weather.
Florida senior Lauren Haeger 
broke the career program record and 
the SEC record with a grand slam in the top of the first in the opening game of the doubleheader.
It was the 66th home run for the 
Peoria, Arizona, native as she passed former Gator Megan Bush. Haeger 
also picked up her 20th win of the season in the game.
Freshman Nicole DeWitt added a 
grand slam of her own to break a 4-4 
tie as the Gators won the opener of the doubleheader 8-4.
UF won the second game 4-3.Florida returns home to face No. 
10 Florida State on Wednesday.
The Gators defeated the Semi-
noles 5-1 on April 8 in Tallahassee. Senior Bailey Castro hit two home runs in the game and Haeger pitched a complete game with seven strike-outs as she picked up the win.
-LUIS TORRES
Women’s Tennis:  The No. 3 
Florida women’s tennis team fell to the Vanderbilt Commodores 4-2 in the SEC Tournament Semifinals.
It was Florida’s second confer-
ence loss of the season, with the first also coming at the hands of the Com-modores.
Florida failed to add the early tal-
ly after Vandy’s fast start in doubles.  
UF trailed 2-0 after Vanderbilt 
added the early singles victory to the board.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said he 
thinks the team played much better doubles from the last time the Gators faced the Commodores.  
“They showed a lot of class and 
ability to be able to close us out. I think (our) team has a lot of im-provement to build on and a lot we can achieve in these next three weeks and if I know this group, 
they’re going to take this the right way and be motivated to become the 
most improved team from now until we play in the Regionals,” Thorn-
qvist said in a release.
The women’s bracket with the 
2015 NCAA Tournament match-ups 
will be announced Tuesday after-noon at 5 p.m.
-ENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Men’s Tennis: The No. 6 
seed UF men’s tennis team fell 4-3 to third-seeded Mississippi State on Friday in the SEC Tournament quar-terfinals. 
Opening up its match on Friday 
against No. 20 Mississippi State the Gators went out on the right foot after sophomore double duo Maxx Lipman and Elliott Orkin clinched the doubles point to give Florida a 1-0 lead.
But Mississippi State rallied to 
win four of the six singles points to 
knock the Gators out early.
“We had a lot of missed oppor-
tunities on our part as we had some 
game points that we didn’t convert too,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “I’m a little bit frustrated that we didn’t convert better today, as we weren’t as mentally tough as we needed to get the job done.”
UF will now await to see where 
it’s headed for the NCAA Tourna-ment. The selection will be aired on NCAA.com and begin at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday.
-CAYLEE UNDERWOODMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
UF's J.D. T omlinson swings during Day 1 of the 2015 SunTrust Gator 
Invitational on Feb. 14 at UF's Mark Bostick Golf Course. T omlinson shot a 2-under 208 to finish tied for 11th at the SEC Championships.
Javier Fernandez / Courtesy to the Alligator
Florida gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn celebrates winning the NCAA national championship on Saturday in Fort Worth, T exas. Florida became the third team in NCAA women's gymnastics history to win three consecutive titles, joining Utah and Georgia.
FLORIDA ATHLETICS
Roundup: UF sports this weekend
They dropped three regular-
season meets against top compe-
tition, and they stumbled in the 
SEC Tournament, when two falls 
and a break dropped the Gators from first to third in the blink of an eye.
But once NCAA action rolls 
around, this team locks in and produces in the clutch, bringing out career performances when they matter the most.
And it’s not just the Kytra 
Hunters and the Bridget Sloans doing the heavy lifting.
Everyone up and down the 
lineup is carrying their weight.
In 2013, then-junior Alaina 
Johnson nailed a 9.95 on bars to lift Florida to its first title.
Last season, it was then-soph-
omore Bridgette Caquatto’s ca-reer-best-tying 9.95 floor routine that gave the Gators a share of title No. 2.
And on Saturday, it was Alex 
McMurtry, an 18-year-old fresh-man, who put up a career-best 9.95 to close out UF’s bars rota-tion and seal the third three-peat 
in NCAA women’s gymnastics history.
In total, Florida had three 
freshmen compete in seven 
events on Saturday.
Outside of McMurtry’s 9.70 
on the balance beam, the lowest score from a UF rookie was 9.85.
Faehn will now go back to 
rebuilding, even though she still has most of her pieces.
Gone will be Hunter — a 15-
time NCAA All-American — and fellow seniors Rachel Spicer, Ja-mie Shisler and Kiersten Wang, 
each of whom has impacted the 
Florida gymnastics program in one way or another.
But returning is a roster that 
is already nine deep not includ-
ing her incoming freshman class. 
Seven of those nine competed in this weekend's NCAA champion-ships.
And all nine of them, from 
freshman Grace McLaughlin to Sloan, have never experienced a collegiate season that’s ended without a national title.
That’s a result of talent.That’s a result of persistence.That’s a result of  guidance.And that reverts back to Rhon-
da Faehn.COLUMN,  from pg  13Gators return nine 
gymnasts next season16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
