We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 160 THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
Injured McIlroy to miss British 
Open
He injured his left ankle playing soccer with 
friends, pg 20.
Gainesville ranked klutziest city in U.S.
Ranking based on on dropped smartphones, pg 3.
Heavener Hall nominated for state architecture 
award
Voting is open until July 31, pg 4.Follow us on social media
For up-to-date information, like us on 
Facebook and follow us on Twitter @TheAlligator.
John Hursh / Alligator
Army Ants
Two 1,100 -pound bronze ant statues are unloaded Tuesday at the Florida Museum of Natural History. 
They are a temporary installation by artist Susan Cochran. Read the story on page 5.
By Lisandranette Rios
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Lightning hit Criser Hall and caused a pipe 
to burst Wednesday evening. Water ﬂ  ooded 
the carpets of the ﬁ  rst and second ﬂ  oor.
University Police Ofﬁ  cer Thomas Busatta 
said he was in a patrol car down the street by 
Turlington Hall when he saw lightning strike 
the corner of Criser Hall. Water shot over the building about 50 feet into the air, he added.
About two to three minutes later, UPD was 
dispatched because of the ﬁ  re alarm, Busatta said.
The ﬁ  re alarms are linked in with the sys-
tems and UPD received an alarm about the wa-ter ﬂ  owing, he said.
The lightning that hit Criser Hall broke a 
line, Busatta said.
He said there is a connection on the roof for the ﬁ  re department and it appears that was the 
pipe that burst.  
“There’s a lightning rod right next to the 
pipe up there,” Busatta said.
UF’s Physical Plant turned off the main 
valve for the building, he said, and the water 
stopped pouring out at about 8 p.m.  
The plant workers had to work on getting 
the power back on to be able to suck the water out of the carpets.
A physical plant worker told Busatta the 
area around the pipes is a pressurized system, and the water ﬂ  ows at about 750 gallons per minute.
Wesley Hetrick, a computer programmer 
who also works at night in Peabody Hall, said he left the area when the ﬁ  re alarm sounded.
He said he did not see lightning strike even 
though he works on the third ﬂ  oor of Peabody 
Hall facing the area where Criser Hall was hit.Criser Crisis: Lightning strikes UF building
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
 
Winfred Phillips stood in 
front of about 100 students who 
wanted to have their voices 
heard Tuesday at UF’s Levin College of Law. 
Phillips, the executive chief of 
staff to UF President Kent Fuchs, updated students on the presi-dent’s goal-setting task force’s progress and allowed them to provide their own input at the 
student town hall meeting. 
The 17-member task force — 
which includes Phillips, Student 
Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines, former Student Body 
President Cory Yeffet and 14 UF faculty members — is respon-sible for gathering information from stakeholders in order to set 
goals and metrics for the univer-
sity to accomplish in the next ﬁ  ve to 10 years, Phillips said. 
The task force is setting goals 
in eight different categories, which include excellence in the academic experience, operation-al support and research and fac-ulty excellence, among others. 
“These are not the goals,” 
Phillips said. “These are the things that need goals.” 
Phillips said he plans to have 
a draft of the goals submitted within the next two weeks. 
They will be posted online for 
students to give their feedback and add suggestions. 
A ﬁ  nal report is expected to 
be ready for presentation to everyone on 
campus and the Board of 
Trustees by 
September. 
Fuchs said 
he likes what 
the group has accomplished so far.
“We are setting that plat-
form,” Fuchs said. “We are set-ting that trajectory. We’re set-
ting those aspirations for the 
future.” 
Once Phillips ﬁ  nished his 
presentation, about 30 students, 
from freshmen to doctoral can-
didates, had the opportunity to voice their concerns. Among those students were:
 Denae Campanale, one of 
about ﬁ  ve students who 
brought up the topic of pre-serving and improving di-versity among students and 
faculty on campus.
 Second-year law student 
Reina Saco and anthropol-ogy junior Van Troung, who UF students voice 
concerns at student town hall meeting
By Nina Cusmano
Alligator Contributing Writer
Friends, family and strangers will 
gather at Kappa Kappa Gamma, 401 
SW 13th St., on Saturday at 8 p.m. to light candles and pray for the recov-ery of Gabriella Molden.
Molden, 22, is currently recover-
ing from a scooter accident in the trauma center of UF Health Shands Hospital. When she was riding her scooter on Southwest 13th Street at Museum Road without a helmet on June 15, Molden collided with an oncoming truck. She suffered a trau-matic brain injury.Molden graduated from UF in 
May with her bachelor’s in psychol-ogy. She planned to continue her education and become a physician 
assistant.
Sam Coughlin, president of Kap-
pa Kappa Gamma at UF, has known 
Molden for three years.
Coughlin helped plan the event 
and said she is looking forward to praying for her friend’s recovery.
Michelle Molden-Sevison said her daughter might be moving to Florida Hospital in Orlando so she can be closer to home. If this happens be-fore the event, she said she will light 
a candle in Orlando with her daugh-
ter. She plans to attend if she is in Gainesville.
Molden-Sevison said her daugh-
ter has made a lot of progress with her recovery. She believes prayers have made a difference.
She said thinking about the event 
gives her goosebumps.
“I know it’s going to be beautiful 
to see all the love and support,” she said. “I’m very much looking for-ward to it.” Pray for Gabby event to be held Sat.
SEE TOWN HALL, PAGE 8“There’s a lightning rod right next to 
the pipe up there.”
Thomas Busatta
University Police Officer Water looded irst two loors
CAMPUS
“I know it’s going to be beautiful 
to see all the love and support.”
Michelle Molden-Sevison
motherPhillips
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 160
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Night Swing Dancing at 
the Music Building
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites all to its weekly dance this and every Friday. 
It will have a free lesson for be-
ginners and intermediates open to everyone from 8 to 9 p.m., followed by two hours of danc-ing from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121. No partner or experience is needed. For more information, find them on Facebook: https://
www.facebook.com/groups/
FLSDC/
GatorNights Block Party
We could only think of one right way to kick off Summer B — with a Block Party. This Friday from 8 p.m. through midnight, check out live music by Karizma — sponsored by Club Creole — and laugh to Zach Sherwin of Epic Rap Battles of History. Gator Nights are always Friday 
and always free for UF students 
with their Gator 1 Card. 
Students receive free admission 
to Florida MuseumStudents with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission to the “Butterfly Rainforest” and other fee-based exhibits year-
round at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, sponsored by UF Student Government. The museum is located at 3215 Hull Road just south of the Southwest Rec Center in the UF Cultural Plaza. The museum is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through 
Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. 
Sunday.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to about 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the pa-per. Include information such as times, locations, prices and any requirements for admission.  Press releases will not appear in the paper.Due to space limitations, there 
is no guarantee your submission 
will appear. 
HIGH  91° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
-10% off with student ID
-Buy back furniture ½ price
230 NE 16th Ave, Gainesville 32601
(352) 672 - 5507   (352) 359 - 9950
LOCAL
By Sedona Huffty
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alexis Cruz drops her iPhone about four times 
a week.
For some smartphone users, this could mean life 
or death for their device. 
But for Cruz, along with other Gainesville resi-
dents, this is just a regular occurrence.
Gainesville was rated as the klutziest city in the 
nation for 2015, according to a survey done by Ga-
zelle, a technological company that trades and sells 
pre-owned smartphones and other electronics.
The survey showed 31 percent of devices Gazelle 
received from Gainesville had shattered screens or significant damage.
“I honestly believe that Gainesville is number 
one on the list — probably because I live here,” 
Cruz said.
The 20-year-old UF telecommunication junior 
has cracked the screens of her past three iPhones 
and her laptop. 
She plans to get her iPhone 6 repaired in the 
near future.
Other cities that ranked in the top-five of the 
2015 Klutziest List include Staten Island, New York; El Paso, Texas; Philadelphia; and Tallahassee. 
“We saw that the klutziest towns also had major 
universities in the city limits,” said Kevin Walther, a communications specialist at Gazelle who pub-lished the survey.
However, customers at Re-Tech Smartphone 
Centers off Archer Road range from all ages, said 
Tully McQueen, the vice president of operations at 
Re-Tech.
“Everyone from your grandmother to your grand-
daughter has a smart phone now,” McQueen said of the growing trend.
Re-Tech repairs smartphones and other similar 
technology, whether it be cracked screens or water damage. 
The center conducts free diagnoses, after which 
it gives customers an estimate on what the repair will cost, according to its website. 
Re-Tech also provides a one-year warranty on all 
screen repairs.
West coast cities such as Honolulu, San Fran-
cisco and Seattle were rated less klutzy than cities on the east coast, according to the survey.
Since these western cities are not college towns 
like Gainesville, their broken-device percentages 
are not as high, Walther said on behalf of Gazelle’s 
analyst team.
Electronics received from Gainesville also had 
more water damage than devices received from oth-er cities, Walther said, which could be connected to 
Florida’s peninsular location.Dropped phones, high rankings: 
Gainesville ranked klutziest in U.S.
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
2. Staten Island, New York - 29%3. El Paso, Texas - 27%4. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania - 27%5. Tallahassee, Florida - 26%6. Lubbock, Texas - 25%7. Columbia, South Carolina - 25%8. Newark, New Jersey - 24%9. Buffalo, New York - 23%10. Boulder, Colorado - 23%
Source: www.gazelle.com
Lauren Johnson/ Alligator Staff< Messages Details
 Top 10 Klutziest Cities
4. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania - 27%
5. Tallahassee, Florida - 26%
6. Lubbock, Texas - 25%
7. Columbia, South Carolina - 25%
8. Newark, New Jersey - 24%
9. Buffalo, New York - 23%
10. Boulder, Colorado - 23%
Source: www.gazelle.com
Source: www.gazelle.com
Details
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
2. Staten Island, New York - 29%
3. El Paso, Texas - 27%
4. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania - 27%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
<
Messages
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
2. Staten Island, New York - 29%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
1. Gainesville, Florida - 31%
Messages
Messages
 Top 10 Klutziest Cities
Top 10 Klutziest Cities
Top 10 Klutziest Cities
Top 10 Klutziest Cities
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Situated on the corner of West Univer-
sity Avenue and Southwest 13th Street, 
Heavener Hall epitomizes the UF Alma 
Mater.
Its gothic walls stretch up past the 
palms and moss-covered oaks that sur-
round it.
“It’s like it was always there,” said UF 
architecture professor Bradley Walters.
The building, which opened for classes 
in January and houses UF’s undergraduate business school inside its big bay windows 
and aged-looking brick, is one of 48 build-
ings nominated in the Florida American Institute of Architects’ People’s Choice Award.
The Florida AIA has received more than 
17,000 votes. Of those, Heavener Hall is in the top five, according to a press release.
The use of true limestone and brick 
materials will ensure Heavener ages grace-
fully without a lot of upkeep, said Walters, 
who serves as the Gainesville AIA presi-dent.
While the building is physically beauti-
ful, Heavener Hall’s project manager How-ie Ferguson wrote in an email that it’s im-pressive for being a “modern, sustainable, and technologically-advanced (sic) facility on a prominent corner of campus.”
The planning team followed campus 
guidelines about historic preservation.
“Most of us (involved with Heavener’s 
design) believe the building and the rede-veloped site and ‘gateway’ to campus ARE beautiful,” Ferguson said, “but the award has more to do with positively impacting 
the community...”
Ferguson said the building makes use of 
both indoor and outdoor space, citing the 
functionality of usable metal tables and chairs in its courtyard area.
Named after UF alumnus and Full Sail 
University CEO Bill Heavener, the hall is the new hub for undergraduates in UF’s College of Business. 
It features high archways that overlook 
a courtyard with an 8-foot-tall, bronze Gator statue, which was revealed Monday.
Heavener Hall’s open study area is 
filled with light and tables fit for collabo-rating and sharing lunch with friends.
UF religion junior Michaela Coughlin 
sat near a window there and prepared for her Wednesday class.
“I just like the feel of it because it’s 
more informal,” the 19-year-old said, ex-plaining that people feel free to chat in the space more than they do in libraries.
Voting for the People’s Choice Award 
opened June 30 and can be done at flori-
dapeopleschoice.org/ until July 31 at mid-
night. 
The winner will be announced at AIA 
Florida’s Annual Convention in Boca Ra-
ton on Aug. 1.
Whether Gainesville residents choose 
to vote for Heavener or another building, 
Walters said he encourages people to visit this year’s nominated structures.
“It’s important that we take a moment 
and recognize buildings that are worthy of recognition,” Walters said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Heavener Hall (above) is nominated for the Florida American Institute of Architects’ 
People’s Choice Award. The building opened its doors in January.
CAMPUS
Heavener Hall nominated for state architecture awardTHURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
THEY ARE PART  OF THE 
CREATIVE B PROGRAM.
By Elena Castello
Alligator Staff Writer
ecastello@alligator.org
Two giant ants have taken over 
UF, and artist Susan P. Cochran 
thinks it’s wonderful.
On Tuesday morning on the lawn 
in front of the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, people gathered to 
see the unloading of “X” and “O,” the two bronze ants that will live on the lawn for one year. Unloaded by crane, these larger-than-life statues weigh 1,100 pounds each and dou-ble as chairs.
Cochran, who said she is in her 
mid-70s, stepped in herself and ad-
justed the bases on which the ants 
would stand as they were unloaded. 
She originally had a colony of 13 
bronze ants, including a queen. She has since sold six of them.
Cochran said she likes to see peo-
ple’s reactions to her insect furniture and hopes people will interact with her art. 
“I like to have fun in my old age,” 
she said. 
When asked about her reason for making ants, Cochran laughed and said, “Why not?”
Leah Craig, a public relations and 
marketing manager for the UF Col-lege of Arts, said they host a public artist each year through Creative B, 
an interdisciplinary annual summer 
program for UF students.
Jennifer Coolidge, a director of 
development for the UF College of the Arts, travels around the country to meet artists who could be picked for the Creative B program. 
Cochran came as a referral to the 
university, and her ants began the 
process of approval through various 
groups and committees from Cre-ative B and the community. 
“This is a delight,” Coolidge said. 
“The ants are absolutely a delight.”
In conjunction with the installa-
tion of the new sculptures, the mu-seum will host its Creative B movie series throughout July. “Them!,” 
which tells the story of atomic tests 
in New Mexico causing common ants to mutate into giant man-eating monsters that threaten civilization, will be the ﬁ  lm on Friday. 
A reception will be held from Fri-
day at 6 p.m. followed by the panel discussion at 7 and then the ﬁ  lm screening. Giant, bronze ants
ﬁ  nd home at UFSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
 
Student Body Treasurer Nich-
olas Carre is not shy about his desire to make needed cuts to the Student Government bud-
gets. 
Earlier this year, he worked 
with the Budget and Appropria-
tions committee to trim about $75,000 from the SG portion of the activity and service fees bud-get and helped craft what the majority of UF’s Student Senate agreed to be a ﬁ  scally respon-
sible budget. 
And at Tuesday’s Student 
Senate meeting, Carre said one 
of his long-term goals is to slow the annual increase in activity and service fees. 
For this to happen, Carre said 
he wants the Senate to assess the budgets they create and pass 
each year in order to ﬁ  nd out 
where the appropriate cuts can be made. 
“My task for you is to evalu-
ate increases, to evaluate where that money is going, so that we know, and you can, with dignity and integrity, answer your con-stituents when they do tell you 
the A&S fees are too high,” Carre said. 
The activity and service fee 
— which was $18.19 per credit hour for the 2014-15 academic 
year — funds four main budgets: SG, the Reitz Union, Rec Sports and the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. 
SG representatives meet with 
the local fee committee every year in October, which is when the student fee rates are deter-mined. 
“You need to make sure the 
students are OK with you taking 
their money,” Carre said.
The 2015-2016 activity and 
service fee budget totaled just 
more than $20 million. 
While it provided funding 
for services that directly impact students — such as member-ships to both gyms on campus and the recently restored New York Times readership program — it also pays for items students 
might not directly know about, 
such as nearly $1 million in SG salaries and $90,000 for SG lob-bying.
 What else happened at 
Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting?
The UF Field and Fork Food 
Pantry, which will provide free 
food to UF students, staff and 
faculty, is getting closer to its opening. The pantry’s soft open-ing is tentatively set for July 28, Sen. Susan Webster said. The of-ﬁ  cial opening and ribbon-cutting ceremony will be Sept. 1 at 10 a.m. 
Student Senate Resolution 
2015-1040 Commending the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce and Di-vision of Student Affairs for the Development of a Sexual Vio-lence Online Education Course passed by unanimous consent. 
Three Summer B replacement 
senators (Gabrielle Bork, Engi-neering; Arie Hariton, District 
B; and Max Klein, District D) 
as well as two committee seats (Janae Moodie, Allocations; and Neil Decenteceo, Information and Communication) were ap-proved by unanimous consent.
Treasurer aims to lower student fees
“My task for you is to 
evaluate increases, to 
evaluate where that money 
is going, so that we know, 
and you can, with dignity 
and integrity, answer your 
constituents when they do 
tell you the A&S fees are too 
high.”
Nicholas Carre
Student Body TreasurerThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Staying dry, Gainesville? Yeah, we didn’t think so. Well 
at least we hope that after using your free copy of the Al-
ligator to dry off your drenched hair you’ll be in the mood 
to read this week’s edition of …
Darts and Laurels
This week we’ve got quite an eclectic collection of sub-
jects to tackle, but we’ll start off with the grimier topics.
Do you believe that sexual relations between an adult 
and a 13-year-old boy are unnatural and predatory? Well, 
we agree. Except, it seems a certain 34-year-old woman from Seffner, Florida, doesn’t quite share this opinion, fol-lowing her consummations of such relations not once, not 
twice, but four times. Donna Doreen Colon, your actions 
are what we would constitute as very, very wrong. Ofﬁ  -
cers haven’t released the names of the boy or his mother of course, but it must have been an incredibly awkward moment for the mother who discovered her child was in the 
midst of a tryst. 
We’ll go ahead and slap a dart on account of 12 counts 
of lewd battery and three counts of lewd or lascivious 
molestation. 
Seriously, that’s nasty. Next up, I’m sure most of our readers have long gotten 
over their Fourth of July hangovers, but one musician’s still working it over. A 22-year-old by the name of Lane Pitt-man was rocking out to our national anthem on his guitar, 
drawing a crowd of 200 cheering Americans, when Neptune 
Beach Police Ofﬁ  cers thought it was good time to arrest the man for disturbing the peace. As in arresting Pittman for playing the national anthem. On the Fourth of July. Before 
a cheering and happy crowd. 
Yeah, we’re just going to throw a dart at the Neptune 
Beach Ofﬁ  cers involved for reasons I hope we don’t need 
to explain.
All right, with that out of the way we’ll go ahead and talk 
about the cool stuff.
We’d like to applaud the efforts of the U.S. delegation 
currently negotiating with Iran over its nuclear policy for surviving 18 months on a diet of Twizzlers, Rice Krispies 
Treats and sweet, sweet coffee. Collectively, our negotiating 
team has consumed 30 pounds of nuts, 10 pounds of straw-berry Twizzlers, 20 pounds of string cheese, more than 200 Rice Krispies treats, and hella coffee (1 hella=100 espresso pods).
For surviving 18 months without being subjected to 
horriﬁ  c medical problems due to your diet we’ll plant a laurel upon Team America. God bless you poor souls.
Lastly. Holy Mother of God we’ve got design plans for 
colonizing Mars — and then we want to make a reality tele-vision show out of it. Yup, this is America all right. We do something awesome, and then we negate any bit of pride by choosing to liken ourselves to the Kardashians. OK, that’s probably a stretch. I suppose we can only hope this reality 
show educates us rather than dissolving our brain cells one 
at a time until the contents of our brain resemble tapioca pudding left out in the sun for way too long. OK, maybe that’s also a stretch. 
Nonetheless, it’s a pretty cool conﬁ  rmation that our 
generation is living in the future, and for making a step forward toward de-ﬁ  ctionalizing science ﬁ  ction we’ll award a laurel to thy name.I’m still skeptical about the Bernie Sanders hype
I’ve always maintained that a little bit of 
skepticism can be a healthy thing. Skepti-cism, at least in my mind, has always occu-
pied a comfortable middle ground between 
optimism and pessimism; going through 
life as a skeptic all but ensures that one will neither be too disappointed when the ground 
falls out from under them, nor all that over-
whelmed when life works out in their favor.
As the U.S. begins its overly long election 
season, I’ve found skepticism to be more of a necessity than ever. Election seasons in the United States are a 
time of false promises, platitudes and pandering; with 
millions of dollars in donations at stake (not to mention the highest seat in the government), there is little room for blunt honesty on the election trail.
It took me a long time to learn this for myself. Like 
many of my generation, I felt burned after President Barack Obama’s historic election in 2008. 
After eight years under the Bush administration, the 
Obama campaign’s promises of “Change” and “Hope” 
struck a chord with my then-idealistic notions of what a 
president could reasonably achieve in ofﬁ  ce. Seven years later, although I have yet to become a full-blown pes-simist, the expectations I have for our political leaders 
have been considerably diminished.
Leading up to this election season, I believed that 
Obama’s appeal and subsequent disappointment had left 
a permanent scar on young voters, dissuading them from ever mobilizing behind a candidate again. 
Imagine my surprise then when my Facebook feed 
was inundated with news articles, likes and statuses all in support of Bernie Sanders, an independent senator from Vermont. 
Sanders, who is gunning for the Democratic nomi-
nation, stands ﬁ  rmly to the left of frontrunner Hillary Clinton on the issues, predominantly with regards to the economy and America’s ever-increasing wealth gap.For a ﬁ  rm leftie like myself, it is certainly 
refreshing to see a candidate with a long his-tory of sticking to his guns actually seem to do 
that on a national platform. But is it wrong if, 
unlike many of my friends, I’m reserving my excitement? As I see it, the hype behind Sena-tor Sanders recalls that of a certain U.S. sena-tor from Chicago in 2008.
Both Sanders and Obama emerged as alter-
natives to Hillary Clinton, and both have been 
touted as alternatives to the political norm. 
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to say that Sanders is my ﬁ  rst choice 
for president come 2016, but I seem to be the only one saying it without a hint of hysteria in my voice. 
Call it disillusion, cynicism or negativity, but if 
Obama’s presidency has taught me anything about the political process, it’s that it is foolish to invest your time 
and hopes into a single ﬁ  gure. 
I am reluctant to use the word demagogue, given that 
the word carries such a negative and manipulative air 
about it, but it sometimes seems as though the electorate 
regards men like Obama and Sanders with the fervor that 
demagogues seek to inspire. 
I can excuse the excitement I possessed for Obama 
because I was 14 at the time of his election; I know better now than to pin all my aspirations for American society 
onto one man. 
It is my sincere hope that Sanders, at the very least, 
wins the Democratic nomination and steers the American 
political dialogue leftward. In the event that he becomes 
president, I truly believe that he would do everything in 
his power to curb climate change, enable young men and women to pursue an education without fear of accumu-lating debt, and actually reign in Wall Street. 
Whether he’d actually be able to realize those lofty 
ambitions? I remain skeptical.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursday.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
There are no doubt many lists of the 
greatest racing movies of all time ranked from best to worst by a va-riety of highly accredited sources. With those lists in existence I see no 
reason to rehash what is already out there, so this is merely a compilation of great rac-ing ﬁ  lms I have seen with a few critically acclaimed I want to see weaved in.
Of course there are more movies than I 
can count with fast cars and chase scenes, 
but this list is focused on actual racing and 
car-culture movies.
There are no Death Races, no “Gone in 
60 Seconds”, no “Speed” movies on this list. I detest movies about a dystopia fu-ture, anything that is just savage wrecking of machines and in general ﬁ  lms that are shot unnecessarily dark. “Cars” (2006), the animated Disney movie, is also just not for 
me. It’s about NASCAR, which I’m not re-
ally interested in, but more importantly the principles of the personiﬁ  ed cars is just not right with me. If cars were alive their head-lights would be their eyes, not their wind-shields.
So here they are in no particular order, 
a list of racing movies you should see as recommended by me:
1. “Le Mans” (1971) — OK so 
maybe this is in order. “Le Mans” is a classic, and if you even have a hint of car/race enthusiasm 
in your blood you should see it. 
Starring the legendary Steve Mc-Queen, it yields an inside look of classic prototype racing.
2. “Rush” (2013) — Starring 
so many people’s Aussie crush Chris Hemsworth, I personally think this movie lived up to the hype. I made a big deal about and saw it the night it came out 
with my Society of Automotive Engineers 
teammates. The ﬁ  lm takes place in the mid-1970s amidst the heavy Formula 1 competi-tion between James Hunt and Niki Lauda. I wish there hadn’t been quite so much CGI racing (even some of the still shots). That is my only large complaint about the ﬁ  lm. Hemsworth ﬁ  lled the seats, but Daniel Brühl who played Lauda was an excellent 
casting. His accent was on point and he re-
ally looked like Lauda.
3.  “The Fast and the Furious” 1-7 — 
This could use its own column. No matter how cheesy the one-liners, no matter how bad the acting ever was, I loved these mov-ies. As the No.1 movie this sum-mer it should be noted that these ﬁ  lms came from humble roots. The ﬁ  rst three movies were heav-ily focused on street racing and 
car culture. I don’t care if anyone 
else liked it but I loved the ani-mated trips through the engine to see the nitrous oxide being released. The movies made a sig-niﬁ  cant shift around the fourth 
installment from car-culture/racing movies to your run-of-the-mill international heist movies. Too bad, I think. The soundtracks 
also evolved with the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm being full 
of hard rap and alternative ‘90s rock to the last three movies having Pitbull and Wiz Khalifa. I guess the Spanish inﬂ  uence was always there because Vin Diesel is sup-posed to be Hispanic and related to Jordana Brewster (OK). While Paul Walker’s hair faded to a brown buzzcut he never ceased being “blondie” in the ﬁ  lms. My own per-
sonal bias loves that Brian O’Connors sig-
nature car was always a Nissan GTR.
4.  “Speed Racer” (2008) - This movie 
tanked in the box ofﬁ  ce. It was based on the famous anime and manga series and starred Emile Hirsche. So it didn’t do so well. So what? I can’t live my life based on what Rotten Tomatoes thinks. This movie was just fun like Tron. I’ve personally al-ways loved Speed Racer. The Mach 5, Racer X, just classic stuff.  And I thought Hirsche 
did a decent-enough job.
5.   “Driven” (2001) - Fast and the Furi-
ous was not the only racing movie that came 
out in 2001. A major ﬂ  op, “Driven” starred Sylvester Stallone as a “fallen legend” who came to coach a rookie in Formula 1. Every time I watch this movie I can’t help but to admit it is pretty bad. Nevertheless, I grew up watching it and someday soon I’ll prob-
ably stumble across it at my parents' house 
and pop it into the DVD player.
To wrap up, I want to mention some 
ﬂ  icks I hope to stream soon: “Winning: the Racing of Paul Newman,” “Days of Thun-der” (I haven’t seen it in about 15 years), “Speedway” and “Viva Las Vegas,” two classic Elvis Presley racing and singing movies, “Grand Prix,” a classic from 1966 
that features a young and hot Lucille Bluth 
and “To Please a Lady,” a 1950s ﬂ  ick star-ring Clark Gable.
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Thursday.
An Expert's Guide to Racing Movies: the Good, the Bad and the CornyColumn
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
By Ashley Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
In lieu of getting cake and ice 
cream on its 20th birthday, Ama-
zon has decided to pass the gifts on 
to its members.
Starting at midnight Wednes-
day, Amazon will unleash a cel-
ebratory shopping event called 
Prime Day that will be ﬂ  ooded 
with more deals than Black Fri-day exclusively for Amazon Prime members with new deals every 10 minutes, according to a press re-
lease.
“Amazon Prime is my life,” 
19-year-old accounting sophomore 
Matt Manzo said. “When I see 
Prime pop up, I’m like, ‘heck yes, 
it’ll be here in two days.’”
A Prime membership costs $99 
a year, but student members re-ceive six months of free two-day 
shipping on eligible purchases, ac-cording to Amazon’s website. After the six-month trial ends, student 
memberships cost $49, about the equivalent to the price of ﬁ  lling up a 64 oz. Swamp Head growler eight times.
Steven Kirn, the executive direc-
tor of the David F. Miller Center for 
Retailing Education and Research 
at UF, said the middle of July is the doldrums for lots of retail sales, and Prime Day adds some juice to 
Amazon’s business.“Generally in retailing, you 
want to do stuff that creates buzz, that creates an excitement, that 
creates some reason for people to come see you that they might have not otherwise,” Kirn said. “Now that it’s Prime Day, you have a 
new reason to take a look at Ama-
zon.”
Amazon is also encouraging 
members to experience prime pho-
tos, one of the site’s latest devel-
opments. From now until Wednes-day, members can creatively reveal how Prime enhances their day-to-day activities in the #PrimeLiving 
photo contest. The most creative 
photo will be selected and awarded a $10,000 Amazon gift card.
Kerry Bader, 24-year-old UF 
alumna and IT Analyst, said she has received emails about Prime Day for a couple of weeks.
“Amazon hasn’t given any idea 
what’s going to be on sale, just that 
it’s going to be better than Black 
Friday,” Bader said. “I’m interested to see what they have going on.”  Amazon giving away birthday deals
both discussed how they would like UF to re-evaluate its process for giving profes-
sors tenure.
 Will Moor, a construction 
management senior who wanted to make sure UF 
continued to keep class siz-
es at a reasonable number in order to make sure stu-dents have the opportunity to build relationships with 
their professors and not get 
lost in the mix.
Padron-Rasines said she was 
excited about the large turnout 
and was appreciative that stu-
dents took advantage of the op-portunity to express their con-cerns. 
“You can see that a lot of 
goals overlapped,” she said. “It’s just interesting to see that even though students come from dif-ferent background that they had the same concerns.”  
Padron-Rasines said she took 
down three pages of notes based 
on the student feedback. 
“I really want student partici-
pation so that the goals reﬂ  ect all 
the stakeholders,” she said, “not just a speciﬁ  c area of campus.” TOWN HALL,  from pg 1Concerns included 
diversity, professor 
tenure, class sizes‘Prime Day’ W ednesday
“Generally in retailing, 
you want to do stuf that 
creates buzz, that creates an 
excitement, that creates some 
reason for people to come see 
you that they might have not 
otherwise.”
Steven Kirn
executive director of the David F. 
Miller Center for Retailing Education 
and Research at UF“I really want student 
participation so that 
the goals relect all the 
stakeholders, not just a 
speciic area of campus.”
Joselin Padron-Rasines
Student Body PresidentKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
The Jam hosts hip-hop jam every week
See what’s going on at the Jam on Tuesday nights, pg 12.What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Bob’s Burgers, ” pg 10.The Avenue reviews Miguel’s “Wildheart, ” pg 11.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Indie-rock quartet Vinyl Theatre will be making a stop 
in Gainesville on Saturday as part of its national Alter the 
Sound tour.
The Milwaukee-based band will be performing at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 9 p.m., 
and the show begins at 9:30. Tickets are available for $12 at 
the door or $10 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com.
With it being the band’s ﬁ  rst time performing in 
Gainesville, Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents, said he is excited to see a big indie band come to town. He added that he loves the band’s most popular single, “Break-ing Up My Bones,” which fans will most likely hear at the show.
Showgoers can expect alternative rock with electronic 
elements, but their music also draws inﬂ  uence from pop. Their fun sound ﬂ  aunts catchy beats and plenty of synths.
“We want everyone who comes to the show to have a 
good time, but also we want to show kind of our passion for how we play,” said drummer Nick Cesarz. “It is about hav-ing a good time; it’s just about what we really love to do.”
The band’s lineup consists of vocalist and guitarist 
Keegan Calmes, keyboardist Chris Senner, drummer Cesarz and bassist Josh Pothier.
From athletes to musicians, Calmes and Senner met at 
a high school cross country meet. Senner’s friends dared him to challenge Calmes, who was known as an extremely talented runner, to a race. After Senner lost, the two discov-ered they were both musicians and would later begin writ-ing music together, laying the foundation for Vinyl Theatre, Cesarz said.
The story behind their name? They chose Vinyl Theatre 
because of what they feel the words mean.
“We like the idea of a theatric performance, as, you 
know like, to kind of show passion in our performances, you know, jump around, really get into it,” Cesarz said. “And the vinyl aspect is almost kind of like a bigger appre-ciation for your favorite bands.”
With most of today’s music being digital, you don’t have 
the connection you did when you bought a CD or a tape, Cesarz said. With vinyl making a comeback, that close con-nection to your favorite bands is being restored.
The band is currently signed to Fueled by Ramen, a ma-jor record label founded by two UF students in 1996.
“We also always love to have Fueled by Ramen acts at 
High Dive, since the label started in Gainesville,” Lavery 
said.   
Cesarz said headlining this tour grants them the oppor-
tunity to do what they love, while allowing them to play 
longer sets for their fans.“It’s really nice because since last September we’ve been 
an opening act, so we’ve been playing 25 minutes a night,” Cesarz said. “So now it’s nice to give our fans, you know, a little bit longer set time and get to hear a lot more songs.”
One last thing to expect from the band’s show: Come 
prepared to be a part of it.
“Expect a really fun, upbeat show. Prepare to go wild, 
pretty much,” Cesarz said. “There are a lot of moments in 
the show where we interact with the crowd and ask them 
to kind of do a couple things, so it’s very interactive.”THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Vinyl Theatre will perform at 9:30 p.m. tonight at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. The band is 
signed to Fueled by Ramen, a major record label founded by two University of Florida students in 1996.
Indie-rock quartet Vinyl Theatre to perform at High Dive
By Katrina Alvarez
Avenue Writer
The Harn Museum of Art will feature the 
Society, Studio and Street exhibition from a British photography studio, Hoppé Portraits, at tonight’s Museum Nights from 6 to 9 p.m.
Museum Nights are held on the second 
Thursday of each month to encourage visi-tors to connect with art while having fun. The museum, located at 3259 Hull Road, offers free admission, food and drinks to all visitors. 
The museum’s director of marketing and 
public relations, Tami Wroath, said the ex-hibit includes 142 portraits of celebrities and street art in London. The photographs were taken by British-German photographer Emil Otto Hoppé and are dated between 1909 and 1945, she said.
Wroath said in order to portray the Lon-
don spirit, activities at the event will include a British-themed jeopardy game, an opportu-nity for visitors to decorate their own royal crown, a Beatles-themed photo booth where visitors can share photos to social media, and a London-inspired phone booth where they can leave messages to the museum about their thoughts on the exhibition.
“Incorporating fun activities with the art 
is going to get people more involved and make it easier for them to learn about the photos while having fun,” said Stephani Navega, a UF linguistics junior. 
“I also think the photo booth is a cool 
idea since it’ll help spread the word about the event with the social media uploads,” she said. 
The event will also include the perfor-
mance “London Calling: Poetry and Popular Music in the Modernist City,” which features singers Tony Canty and Caitlin Pearse and musicians Nick Pierce and Thomas Royal.
“The performers will recreate jazz songs 
and music hall numbers from the time of photographer Emil Otto Hoppé’s London,” Wroath said.
Next month’s Museum Nights, which 
will be held on August 13, will be inspired by NEXUS: Experimental Photography in Florida. It will feature art, tours and activi-ties with a focus on Florida, according to the museum’s website.
The photographs exhibited will be those 
taken by former UF photography professors, Wroath said.
Harn’s Museum Nights to portray London spirit tonightThe band’s irst-ever GNV show is tonight
ART EXHIBIT
“The performers will recreate jazz 
songs and music hall numbers from 
the time of photographer Emil Otto 
Hoppé’s London.” 
T ami Wroath
director of marketingTHURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
By Laura Gomez
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
 Tina has a butt fantasy
 Bob isnʼt in the spirit to do 
something
 Linda bursts into song and 
dance
Take a shot when…
 Louise hatches a plan Bob and Linda stoop to the 
kidsʼ level
 When  Linda  uses  alcohol 
as a solution
 Bob enters a feud with 
Jimmy Pesto
 Someone  mentions  Geneʼs 
odor
Finish your drink…
 To catch up with Bob or 
Linda when theyʼre drunk
 If youʼre not already 
drunk halfway through an 
episode (you must be doing 
something wrong)Bob’s Burgers is ofﬁ  cially cel-
ebrating its grand re-re-re-opening 
on Netﬂ  ix, and that, of course, can only mean one thing: It’s time to grab a few burgers and brews while 
we sit back and catch up with the 
gang’s latest adventures.
The animated comedy centers 
around the Belcher family, who owns and operates Bob’s Burgers, a burger joint constantly under scru-tiny and almost always on the verge of closing down. Their failing busi-ness could be due to the fact that husband Bob and wife Linda are 
constantly taking on side projects 
and/or to the success of Jimmy Pes-to, Bob’s rival from across the street who lures in hungry customers. Somehow, the business remains open, serving loyal customers such as Teddy the handyman.
Spoiler alert: Bob’s Burgers will 
re-open for a sixth season, which is slated to premiere in September on 
Fox. Meanwhile, you can watch the 
ﬁ  rst four seasons on Netﬂ  ix, fulﬁ  ll-ing all your bingeing needs (both watching and drinking). 
Cheers!MIGUEL ’S ‘WILDHEART’ THROBS WITH LUST, LAMENT ff the Record
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Three years after his sophomore effort won 
him a Grammy, R&B singer-songwriter Miguel took to the studio to grace his fans with some new music just in time for summer.
On June 26, the West Coast crooner re-
leased his third album, “Wildheart,” through Bystorm Entertainment and RCA Records. Al-though the project prides itself on exploring the multifarious nature of attraction, it also delves into issues of insecurity and escape.  Longtime rocker Lenny Kravitz and his 
screeching guitar make an appearance on “face the sun,” while rapper Kurupt lays a verse on “NWA.”
Gritty synthesizers and industrial boom-
baps kick off “the valley,” a song that sounds like it belongs in a Kama Sutra soundtrack. 
Miguel ﬂ  oats over the jagged instrumental 
with a syrupy blend of subtlety and sacrilege. His verses are seductive but deliberately paced, a much-needed foreplay before a bare-all cho-rus robs you of all innocence. 
The valley Miguel references is located in California — the San Fernando Valley to be exact — which is most famous for being the 
Mecca of the adult ﬁ  lm industry. Regardless, 
the song is catchy enough to stay in your head and slip out during the absolute worst time.
“Coffee” seems to ﬁ  nd Miguel settling down 
into a relationship as he shifts from promiscu-ity to monogamy. Unlike the raw carnality present in “the valley,” the focus of “Coffee” isn’t lust; it’s falling in love. He emphasizes the little things that make intimacy worthwhile, 
like waking up the next morning and not feel-
ing the need to ﬂ  ee.
Miguel admits to feeling like an outsider on “what’s normal anyway,” the album’s most divergent and vulnerable track. A lone, rifﬁ  ng 
guitar begins to follow the singer as he medi-
tates on a life of loneliness. 
He reveals during the song that as a child, 
he couldn’t identify with any particular culture due to his spotted heritage. Even once he grew up, his style didn’t seem to ﬁ  t into conven-tional pegs. As the song breaks into its aptly unorthodox chorus, ethereal ambience ﬁ  lls in blank spaces and continues evolving. 
By the end of his dejection, Miguel ﬁ  nds 
a semblance of light. And just like that, the “Wildheart” beats on.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Pierre Corneille’s “The 
Liar” will be brought to life 
in the UF’s School of Theatre 
and Dance’s second summer 
production.
The play, which has been 
adapted by David Ives, is di-
rected by Judith Williams. 
Williams, who once served as the artistic director at the School of Theatre and Dance, said the play is meant to rec-
reate the tarnishing of 17th-
century Paris during the reign of Louis XIV.
“The play is relevant be-
cause lying is a major theme everyone can relate to,” Wil-liams said.
Jake Lesh, who plays 
Dorante in the production, 
said this play has been one 
of the most challenging he’s tackled as an actor.
“There has to be so much truth behind what you are do-ing,” Lesh said. “To also hon-or the language — it’s kind of like a juggling act; there are a 
lot of balls to juggle.”
Lesh, 24, is going for his 
master’s degree in Fine Arts and said he got the role as a 
part of his summer require-ments. He added that he was fortunate enough to be casted after auditioning. Lesh ex-
plained that the period aspect 
of the play kept him and his fellow cast members on their toes with the desire to stay 
true to Ives’ adaptation.
Grace Abele plays Clarice 
in the play. Abele, 30, is no 
stranger to the stage. “The Liar” will be her fourth time 
being part of a UF production. 
What sets this production 
apart from the rest? Abele 
said it involves the ornate 
costumes.
“I’ve never done a period 
piece like this before,” Abele said. “The mid-17th-century 
France with the huge skirts and the huge wigs; they’re not as cumbersome as I 
thought they’d be.”
Lesh said the complexity 
of the piece culminating with 
contemporary references is what individualizes the play.
“It’s funny, it’s sexy, it’s 
smart — there really is not a play like this.”
Shows will be held at 7:30 
p.m. Thursday through Sat-urday and at 2 p.m. Sunday at the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion, located at 687 McCarty Drive. 
Tickets are $17 for the gen-
eral public and $13 for stu-dents, seniors and UF staff. 
Tickets can be purchased 
at the University Box Ofﬁ  ce, located at Gate 1 at the Ste-phen C. O’Connell Center, online at ticketmaster.com or by calling 352-392-1653. 
Tickets will also be available 
45 minutes before the perfor-mance at the Constans The-atre Box Ofﬁ  ce.UF brings ‘The Liar’ to stage
Laura Gomez / Alligator Staff
CALLING LOCAL ARTISTS
Every Tuesday night the Jam hosts a live hip-hop jam and open mic. 
Pictured above are local rappers BG Blazel (left) and W.IS.E (right).
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF’s School of Theatre and Dance will premiere its rendition of  “The Liar” at 7:30 p.m. tonight at the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion, 687 McCarty Drive.
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, JULY 10
GatorNights: Gator Block Party
J. Wayne Reitz Union
655 Reitz Union Drive
7:30 p.m. | Free with Gator1Subliminal Pepper
High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave
Doors 9 p.m. | Show 10 p.m.
$6 advance and $8 door
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
Show begins tonight/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SATURDAY, JULY 11
Honky T onk Angels Musical
Hippodrome State Theatre
25 SE Second Place | $17-$37
Shows at 5 p.m. and 8:30 p.m.‘90s Video Dance Party
The Atlantic Nightspot
15 N. Main St.
10 p.m. | $3
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SUNDAY, JULY 12
Dance Performance
Harn Museum of Art
3259 Hull Road 
2 p.m. | Free EventGainesville Express Train Show
Matheson Museum
513 E. University Ave.
1 p.m. | Adult $4, Children $1THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2 bedroom apt for rent, 10 minutes from campus. Nice community. Furnished. Asking $585. First month down. No central heat/AC, no pets, no smoking/drinking/drugs. Grad stu-dent preferred. Call Mr. Parker 352-213-5942    8-2-15-5-1
MASTER BR/BA for rent in 2BR/2BAfurnished condo. Close to campus & Shands,on 3 bus routes. $400/mo. 1/2 utils.Free wifi/cable. Short-term. Aug - Dec 28th.Possibly 1 yr. 727-815-2219     7-16-15-5-1
GRAD STUDENT, Christian female needed for BR w/BA, kitchen privileges, utils, $350/mo. NE section, bus route. Call between 9am & 4pm, Mon thru Fri. 352-519-9363    7-21-15-5-1
2 rooms available in 4BR/2BA at Univ. Commons condo. Furnished common area, parking, condo has pool, close to bus rte., 2 blocks to UF, $325/mo/rm. Includes utils, cable/internet. Call Debra @ 352-316-6842 (reference B-205)!     7-14-15-2-1
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA 
house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    7-14-15-48-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   7-30-15-30-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, 
Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets 
ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   7-9-15-
16-2GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-30-15-13-2
1 BR/ 1 BA Apt - Wifi, washer, and dryer included. Granite counter tops. Nice com-
munity close to Archer, UF main campus and Shands. With 3 bus routes. Call 407-697-1571    7-9-15-5-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
We have a 1br, or 2br units available in Holly Heights for $425-$575. Also available in Tower Oaks a 2br/2ba unit for $525. As well as 2br units available in Tower Village for $525-$650. 352-224-5011   7-23-15-7-2
2 Blocks To Stadium
Freshly decorated 2BR/1BA. Wood floors. $900/mo. Call 352-346-0123    7-23-15-6-2
3 bedroom 2 bath home for rent.
Big, beautiful home in a great neighborhood.
1.6 miles from the University.
washer, dryer, outdoor deck, 2 car garage.
$550 per room only 2 rooms left.
Joe 352-406-9325
7-21-15-4-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
Condo, 1 bedroom 1 bath,
ground floor. On bus route to UF/Shands/VA. 
$64,500.For info 352-234-3018.    7-9-3-5
FSBO, 5 Ac. Newberry Fl.
3BR, 2Bath + Barn $99.999.
706-756-7099 or 706-645-3852    7-9-15-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must 
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
BUY OR SELL AN RV ONLINE
Best RV Deals and SelectionOwner and Dealer ListingsMillions of RV ShoppersVisit RVT.com Classifiedswww.RVT.com 888-574-5499      7-9-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-1W5-25-11Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
for sale: 2012 Metro Retroblue & white 49cc, mileage 3,688$750 & includes black helmet located in Gainesville (813)391-5875    7-16-15-3-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    7-9-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds10 For SaleTHURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. 
Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT - IMMEDIATE
$8.10/hr, flex hrs, 20 hrs min. Word typing 
skills, Excel a plus. CV & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com  7-14-15-
10-14Coastal Georgia In-residence position
Housekeeper/Server Greyfield Innon Cumberland Island.Dining experience and some knowledge of wine required. $28,500/year with room and board included.Inquire seashore@greyfieldinn.com    7-21-15-7-14
retired faculty seeks student for chores: vacuum, dust, windows, weed, plant flowers, etc. flexible 5-8 hours week. $12 hour. safe gated neighborhood 3 miles from campus on RTS #10 route. send resume to:ufstudentjob@cox.net       7-9-15-4-14
HELP WANTED: VAPE SHOPlooking for an experienced vaping/coil build -
er. Retail experience a plus. Apply in person Escape2Vape 12pm - 5pm 7327 NW 4th Blvd Gainesville, FL  7-14-14-5-14
Hiring music instructors to teach
all instruments including guitar, violin,
flute, saxophone, brass, piano & more.
Email resume/credentials to
EdCenter@hoggtownemusic.com
Out of courtesy, we ask that you
do not call the store.
All emails will be answered promptly
7-9-15-14-14Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.  7-30-15-9-14
CNAs, PCAs, HHAs: Part time in-home caregiver needed, will train. Must be Mature & Reliable, backgrounds will be checked. Reply to anything@gator.net    7-9-15-2-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    7-28-15-6-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.     7-30-15-7-1425 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    7-9-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    7-9-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new ca-reer? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghiway.com EOE    7-9-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    7-9-1-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Loyalty BonusRecent 2 CPM RaiseStay Cool with Newer KWs w/ APUs   Great Miles CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com     7-9-1-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Moving? Don't fuss leave it to us! GUARANTEED to get your security deposit back. Hall of Fame InEx Cleaning a Licensed & Insured cleaning service. Call today (352)246-3264    7-16-15-5-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    7-9-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    7-9-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    7-9-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Certified Nurses Aide. I'm seeking to share my country home. I can provide in-home care, incl meal prep, personal care. Reliable transporta-tion, honest & sincere. I have references & background. Home is clean, pleasant & quiet. Room furnished, cable & pvt bath, laundry room, etc. More info call Cynthia 352-792-4458   7-14-2-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    7-9-1-16NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND - FITBIT
Thurs, 7/2 in a.m. Near campus. Call to iden -
tify 352-376-6512    7-14-3-25Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
25 Lost & Found 24 Pets 20 Event Notices 15 Services 18 PersonalsHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Gator Corey Brewer 
re-signed with the Houston Rockets and David Lee was traded to the Boston Celtics.Read the story on pg. 19. Vote online
Which Gator do you think had the Best Individual Moment in 2014-15? Cast your vote at www.alligator.org/sportsDendy named finalist for Bowerman Trophy
Florida senior jumper Marquis Dendy was named a finalist for The Bower-
man Trophy, collegiate track & field's highest individual honor. Dendy is UF's third finalist in the history of The Bowerman. No Gator has won the a ward. SEC MEDIA DAYS
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Defensive end Jonathan Bullard, de-
fensive back Vernon Hargreaves and wide 
receiver Brandon Powell will represent 
Florida at the Southeastern Conference 
Football Media Days, the school an-nounced Wednesday.
All three will join head coach Jim 
McElwain in Hoover, Alabama, on Mon-day, where they will participate in a day of interviews. 
McElwain’s press conference is sched-
uled for 3:30 p.m.
The event will last from Monday to 
Thursday and will feature all 14 SEC head coaches, along with three players from each team. The SEC Network will televise 
the entire week of events.
Hargreaves, a junior, was at the event 
in 2014, along with former quarterback Jeff Driskel and former defensive end 
Dante Fowler Jr.
The unanimous First Team All-SEC 
defensive back recorded 50 total tackles, three interceptions and ranked first in the 
SEC in pass breakups 
with 13 last season.
Bullard and Powell 
are making their debut 
at Media Days. 
Bullard, a senior, fin-
ished the 2014 season with 52 tackles and 8.5 tackles for loss while 
starting all 12 games.
Powell, who played a mixture of run-
ning back and wide receiver in 2014, had 16 carries for 70 yards and a rushing touchdown while making 15 receptions for 147 yards and one receiving touch-
down. 
He is one of just four sophomores to 
appear at the event.UF unveils Media Day lineup
HARGREAVES AND MORRISON  
FOR BEST DEFENSIVE PLAYER, 
MCGEE FOR BEST TIGHT END. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Three Florida Gators have been named 
to college football preseason award watch 
lists.
Junior defensive back Vernon Harg-
reaves and senior linebacker Antonio Morrison have been named to the Chuck Bednarik Award preseason watch list for the best defensive player in the country.
Tight end Jake McGee has been named 
to the Jack Mackey Award preseason watch list for the best tight end in the nation.
Hargreaves was a semifinalist for the Bednarik last season.
Morrison was a Second Team All-South-
eastern Conference selection after he led the Gators with 101 tackles becoming the first Florida player to do so since Ahmad Black had 108 in 2010.
Morrison is expected to miss the begin-
ning of the season as he continues to re-cover from a knee injury that he suffered during the Birmingham Bowl in January.
McGee, who was granted a sixth year of 
eligibility after suffering a season-ending broken tibia and fibula in his left leg in the 
opening game of the season, transferred from Virginia be-fore last season.
In his final season in a 
Cavalier uniform, McGee had 43 catches for 395 yards and 
two touchdowns.
 The Richmond, Virginia native, has 
71 catches for 769 yards and seven touch-downs in his collegiate career.      Florida players named to 
preseason award watch listsALLIGATOR AWARDS
The Alligator Awards con-
tinue this week, with the second 
award being for “Best Individual Moment.” Editor-in-chief Jordan McPherson and staff writer Ian Cohen join alligatorSports editors Graham Hall, Luis Torres and Gra-ham Hack in a roundtable discus-sion to debate the five nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Cohen: Schwarz Delivers
After JJ Schwarz belted his 
fourth home run of Florida’s 22-2 
victory over Stetson in April, his 
teammates were so tired of climb-
ing out of the dugout and congrat-ulating him at home plate that they decided to stay back and give him 
the silent treatment.
But afterwards, even they ad-
mitted that they had witnessed his-
tory.
“I saw Josh Hamilton do that 
once on TV,” junior Harrison Bad-er told Schwarz. “I guess any time you’re in the same sentence as Josh Hamilton, you must be doing 
something right.”
Schwarz’s four homers set a 
UF record and tied a 33-year old 
Southeastern Conference mark set by Kentucky’s Billy Sandry in 
1982. Schwarz also went 5-for-6 with a game-high 10 RBIs, just missing out on tying the Gators’ 
single-game RBI record, set by Preston Tucker with 11 in 2009. 
From that moment on, whenev-er Florida’s games were televised, 
Schwarz was introduced by ESPN 
commentators to national TV audi-ences as the hitting phenom who recorded four home runs in a sin-gle game.
It became his calling card.It’s an accolade that may never 
be equaled at Florida, in the SEC or nationally for many years to come, if at all.
Unless, of course, Schwarz can 
pull it off again sometime in the next two years.
Hack: A 10 for Sloan
No individual moment had 
more significance than Bridget Sloan’s perfect 10 on bars in the fi-
nal meet of the regular season.
First, the moment was huge for 
the junior. Although Sloan consid-
ered bars to be her best event, it 
was the only one in which she had 
yet to score a perfect mark in her decorated collegiate career.
She had scored 9.975s in the 
event in her previous two meets, 
and she knew she was close head-
ing into the March 13 matchup against Texas Woman’s University. 
The cause for the 9.975s was 
a deduction for her feet not being together on the landings, and she had worked on the problem all week.
The work paid off that night, 
and as soon as Sloan hit the floor, she knew it was perfect. 
The hug she ran to give coach 
Rhonda Faehn showed how much 
it meant.
The moment was also a turning 
point for Florida. What was the Best Individual Moment for a Florida Gator in 2014-15?
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz's four home runs tied a 33-year old Southeastern Conference mark. The freshman finished 
the season with 18 home runs, tied for fourth most in the NCAA last season. 
FOOTBALLMcElwain
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 1818   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
Sloan had sprained her ankle 
in the opening week of the sea-
son, and the initial fear was she 
wouldn’t return for the rest of the 
year.
Although she was able to come 
back and compete in the three 
meets prior to that night, scoring a 
10 signalled she was truly back to her old self — an old self the Gators would need to lead them back to a third-consecutive national title.
Hall: Donovan's 500th 
Win
You all have some great points, 
but only one former Hall of Fame coach has done what former men’s 
basketball coach Billy Donovan ac-
complished on Feb. 28: win 500 games before his 50th birthday.
The rarity of the feat is a testa-
ment to Donovan’s dedication to the Gators for 19 seasons, sticking with the team and rebuilding the program three times while turning Florida into a perennial power.
Before his arrival, the Gators 
had been to the NCAA Tournament just ﬁ  ve times in 81 years — UF was a non-threat in the Southeast-
ern Conference let alone a champi-
onship contender.
But Donovan changed the en-
tire culture. 
The Gators made the NCAA 
Tournament nine straight times 
from 1999-2007, including the ﬁ  rst 
back-to-back national champion-ships since Duke in 1990-91.
Everything Donovan had 
worked half of his life for culmi-nated with that 66-49 win over 
Tennessee.
And the coach was ﬁ  nally at peace with leaving Gainesville — 
where he had watched his children grow up and his parents get old — knowing he had solidiﬁ  ed his place in the annals of college basketball coaching history, ready for the next challenge in a Hall of Fame-worthy career.
McPherson: Alhassan 
Dominates
Rhamat Alhassan had more 
than a handful of incredible mo-ments during her freshman season 
with UF volleyball, but none were 
more remarkable than the way she started her career. In UF’s 3-0 sweep of Idaho on Aug. 29 — Al-
hassan’s second game and ﬁ  rst ca-
reer collegiate start — the 6-foot-4 middle blocker leveled the playing ﬁ  eld with 13 kills on 16 errorless swings, good for a .812 hitting per-
centage. 
Considering she didn’t start ac-
tively playing volleyball until her 
junior year of high school, those 
numbers are absolutely staggering. 
And they were just the begin-
ning. That ﬁ  rst start fueled a domi-
nating freshman year for Alhassan, who ﬁ  nished with a nation-leading 
.458 hitting clip — the third-high-
est single-season mark in UF his-tory — and led Florida with 149 total blocks. Coach Mary Wise was 
hesitant to make any predictions 
about Alhassan before the season started. 
Sure she had the height and a 
30-plus inch vertical, but Wise 
wasn’t going to overhype the 
weapon she had in her frontcourt. But in all honesty, she didn’t need to. 
Alhassan made her presence 
known when she blew the rest of the competition out of the water from the get-go.
Torres: Haeger Breaks Re-
cords
Lauren Haeger had an incred-
ible senior season.
She was named the National 
Player of the Year, the Women’s College World Series Most Out-standing Player and she captured 
a second national title to cap it all 
off.  
But one moment stood above 
the rest.
On April 18 against the Georgia 
Bulldogs, Haeger made Southeast-ern Conference and Florida Gator history.  
In the top of the ﬁ  rst inning in 
the ﬁ  rst game of a doubleheader, Haeger hit her 14th home run of the season — a grand slam — off of pitcher Brittany Gray. 
The line drive shot over the cen-
ter ﬁ  eld fence was the 66th career blast for the Peoria, Arizona native, as she passed former Gator Megan Bush for the all-time conference 
and program record for home runs.
And as she crossed home plate, 
Haeger was mobbed and congratu-
lated by her teammates as they cel-
ebrated with her because they had 
just witnessed history.
It wasn’t a matter of if, but 
when Haeger would set the record during the season because she was 
such a proliﬁ  c home run hitter in 
her ﬁ  rst three seasons. 
Bush’s record would only last 
four seasons and she was among 
the ﬁ  rst people to congratulate 
Haeger once the ﬁ  rst game was over.
Bush was a major supporter of 
Haeger throughout her career at 
Florida and what Haeger accom-
plished on that day, foreshadowed what was to come later on in the season for her and the team.
 Which moment did you think 
was best? Vote online at alligator.org/sports. All results will be re-vealed in our New Student Edition 
on Aug. 17.AWARDS,  from pg 17UF athletes broke records, won titles with strong performances
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
In her ﬁ  rst career start, Alhassan recorded 13 kills on 16 errorless 
swings. She ﬁ  nished the year with a nation-leading .458 hitting clip. 
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
AP Photo
David Lee won an NBA title with the Warriors last season. 
Lee was traded to the Boston Celtics for Gerald Wallace. 
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Former Gator Corey Brewer has re-signed with the 
Houston Rockets, where he spent the majority of last sea-
son.
The 29-year-old small forward, selected seventh overall 
in the 2007 NBA draft by the Minnesota Timberwolves, has reportedly agreed to re-sign with the Rockets for three years and $24 million. 
Yahoo Sports’ Adrian Wojnarowski was 
the ﬁ  rst to report the deal, which couldn’t be agreed upon until the moratorium was lifted today at midnight. 
“I’m happy, so happy,” Brewer told 
Jonathan Feigen of the Houston Chronicle on Friday. “Just glad to be a Rocket.”
While Brewer had the choice of where he wanted to 
play next season, former UF star David Lee is reportedly 
on his way out of Golden State via trade.
Lee was reportedly traded to the Boston Celtics for vet-
eran swingman Gerald Wallace in a deal seen as mutually 
beneﬁ  cial to both teams.Lee and his agent informed the Warriors following the 
team’s NBA championship in June that the 32-year-old 
wanted to be moved after losing his starting spot for the 
foreseeable future to Draymond Green.
Green, a restricted free agent, reportedly agreed to a 
ﬁ  ve-year, $82 million contract to return to the Warriors. 
A hamstring injury during training camp kept Lee out 
until December, allowing for Green’s emergence. 
Green credited much of his progres-
sion last season to Lee taking the young 
forward under his wing and helping him 
develop. 
“The part of the business that sucks!” 
Green wrote on Twitter following the news of Lee’s departure. ”Wish my big bro noth-
ing but the best and I appreciate you show-
ing me the way.”
Lee averaged 7.9 points and 5.2 rebounds in 49 games 
last season, his ﬁ  fth in the six-year, $80 million contract he 
signed with the Warriors in 2010. 
Golden State will reportedly keep Wallace rather than 
release him. Former Gator Brewer re-signs with 
Rockets; David Lee traded to Celtics
GATORS
IN THE NBAThe Associated Press
The photo Rory McIlroy posted 
to Instagram on Wednesday shows 
his feet up, a black air cast around his left ankle, as he watches Wim-bledon on television. The claret jug 
was positioned beneath the screen.
When it comes to a Grand Slam 
championship in his own sport, 
the world’s No. 1 golfer will be re-duced to watching this year.
Two days after the stunning 
news that he ruptured a ligament in his left ankle, McIlroy pulled out of the British Open at St. Andrews, 
the ﬁ  rst time in 61 years that the 
defending champion will not be in the ﬁ  eld.
He injured his ankle over the 
weekend playing soccer with friends in Northern Ireland. Mc-Ilroy held out hope he could still make it to St. Andrews next week, but he decided it was not worth 
risking a full recovery.
“After much consideration, I 
have decided not to play in the 
Open Championship at St. An-drews,” McIlroy said on his Insta-gram post.
“I’m taking a long-term view of 
this injury and, although rehab is progressing well, I want to come 
back to tournament play when I 
feel 100 percent healthy and 100 percent competitive.”
Ben Hogan in 1954 was the last British Open champion who did not defend. Hogan, who was near-ly killed in an automobile accident in 1949, won the only British Open he played in 1953 at Carnoustie.
“We are naturally very dis-
appointed that Rory will be un-
able to defend his title at St. An-
drews next week,” the R&A said in a statement. “Rory will play in many more Open Championships and our primary concern is for his complete recovery.”
He was replaced in the ﬁ  eld 
by Russell Knox, who grew up in Inverness in the north of Scotland 
and will be making his Open de-
but.
Though it wasn’t a big sur-
prise that he withdrew — not after the photo Monday of McIlroy on crutches — it was no less jarring that golf’s best player would not be at the home of golf to defend his title.
His absence makes Jordan Spi-
eth the favorite at St. Andrews in his quest for the Grand Slam. Spi-eth is only the fourth player since 1960 to have won the Masters and the U.S. Open in the same year.
Still to be determined is how 
long the ankle injury keeps McIl-roy out of golf.
He also is the defending cham-
pion in the Bridgestone Invitation-al at Firestone on Aug. 6-9, and the PGA Championship the following week at Whistling Straits. McIlroy ﬁ  nished one shot out of a playoff when the PGA Championship was 
last held there in 2010.
Spieth will have a chance to re-place McIlroy at No. 1 in the world 
with a good ﬁ  nish at the John Deere and a victory at St. Andrews.
Tiger Woods is the only other 
No. 1 player to miss a major cham-pionship — the British Open and PGA Championship in 2008 re-covering from reconstructive knee 
surgery, and the Masters last year 
when he had surgery on his back.20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015
APPLY @ GAINESVILLESTUDENTLIVING.COM
Rates & fees subject to change. While supplies last. Limited time only. See office for details.
ROYAL VILLAGEUNIVERSITY CLUB
+ SAVE UP TO $314 WITH ZERO DOWNSIGN A LEASE & GET A
LIMITED SHORT-TERM LEASES AVAILABLE$500 GIFT CARD
OR NEW LOW RATESMcIlroy, No. 1 player in world, ruptures ligament in ankle
AP Photo
Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland holds up the Claret Jug trophy after winning the British Open Gold 
championship at the Royal Liverpool golf club on July 20, 2014.  McIlroy won’t be back to defend his title. 
Will miss British Open