We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 38 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
Midﬁ  elder to skip UEFA qualifying 
games to play with UF
Florida has four games left in the regular 
season, pg. 17
President Kent Fuchs speaks out
A new path may lead to wonderful possibilities, pg. 6
Check out the Avenue
A folk artist, Frankenstein and some mediocre advice, pgs. 9-13UF students explore alternative 
art
Read the story and check out the photos, 
pg. 8
By Emily Cochrane 
and Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org 
Gainesville Police arrested UF 
football player Deiondre Porter 
Wednesday morning after police say he reportedly ﬁ  red a gun in the direc-tion of his pregnant girlfriend in late September. 
Porter has been suspended indef-
initely from the football team, coach 
Jim McElwain announced Wednes-
day.
At about 2:15 a.m. on Sept. 29, 
Porter reportedly confronted a wom-an who he has been dating since 2013 at her apartment for being in-volved with another member of the UF football team. Porter knew she was 10 weeks pregnant at the time, according to a police report. 
As Porter, 19, began yelling at 
her to tell him the truth about her 
reported involve-ment, the woman 
tried to avoid him by going into her bedroom, accord-ing to the report. 
Porter then 
held a gun to her head while she denied involve-
ment and tried to call and text the other teammate. After there was no response from the teammate, Porter told the woman they would try to 
reach him again in the morning, and 
he fell asleep in her bedroom while she slept in the living room, accord-ing to the report. 
At about 7:15 a.m. that same day, 
Porter began yelling at the woman again about being involved with his teammate and paced around the liv-ing room as she stood by the door 
and continued to deny any involve-
ment, according to the report. The woman told police Porter then raised the gun and shot in her direction, with the bullet hitting the wall where she was leaning. He left soon after. The woman reported the inci-
dent on Monday, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said during a press conference Wednes-day. 
“Most importantly, she said she 
was scared,” Tobias said. “She was dealing with a UF football player, a well-known football player. She was honestly terriﬁ  ed.”
Police found a bullet hole near 
the door, where the woman said she was leaning. A .45 caliber casing was also found under a chair in the living 
UF football player arrested, reportedly ﬁ  red gun
A domestic violence case
Porter
SEE PORTER,  PAGE 4
10,000 Rubberbands
Sitting on a wooden bed of screws 
and rubber bands, UF anthropology junior Van Truong, 20, scans over an incomplete 6-by-8-foot Mona Lisa art piece at the Pop-Up Culture event on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. Truong, who helped put the event together, opened her project to all students at the event to gather “inspiration from other people who approach art and life differently. ”
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
CAMPUSHE BROUGHT THE MARRIAGE 
EQUALITY CASE TO THE 
SUPREME COURT. 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Jim Obergefell didn’t fall in love at ﬁ  rst 
sight, but instead on the third.
On Wednesday night, Obergefell, the lead 
plaintiff of the Supreme Court case that made 
same-sex marriage legal across the country, 
told students in the University Auditorium 
that the third time he met his husband, John Arthur, he realized he was interested in him romantically.
He was paid about $20,000 to speak at UF. 
He told his story to an audience of about 500, 
saying his world was turned upside down 
when he discovered Arthur had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in 2011. By 2013, Arthur was in hospice care for the terminally ill, had lost the ability to walk and could barely speak.
Obergefell said while caring for Arthur, he 
asked himself three questions: What do I stand for? What’s important to me? What am I will-ing to ﬁ  ght for?
When the Supreme Court struck down the 
Defense of Marriage act in 2013, Obergefell said he kissed Arthur and said, “Let’s get married.”
But the couple couldn’t get married in their 
home state, Ohio, Obergefell said. His friends Lead plantiff 
in marriage case speaks 
By Caitlin Ostroff 
and Ansley Pentz 
Alligator Staff Writers
apentz@alligator.org 
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
The UF Student Government fee commit-
tee met Wednesday to discuss raising student 
activity and service fees.
Ty Robare (Impact), vice chairman of the 
budget appropriations committee, and UF Stu-
dent Body treasurer Nicholas Carre (Access) 
said there should be an increase in the budget of $0.51 to keep up with operational costs of the Reitz Union expansion, add another Soror-ity and Fraternity Affairs adviser, add a RecS-ports dietitian and expand its CORE program, which will help students go on domestic trips. The current student fees are $19.06 per credit hour. With the increase, it would be $19.57 per credit hour.
Robare said it’s important to raise the bud-
get to accommodate the additions to the Reitz.  After construction is completed, the union will house several student organizations, like Mul-ticultural and Diversity Affairs and GatorWell.  Some UF departments asked for a budget 
increase with presentations of their programs and how much money they would need for the 2016-2017 year.
Ernesto Escoto, the director for UF’s Coun-
seling and Wellness Center, said additional money would go toward increasing online ser-vices for PaCE students, restarting a program for postdoctoral students to work in the CWC 
and increasing staff salaries.
Escoto said the CWC won’t give up.
“We’ll come back again and ask you next 
year,” he said.Student Government discusses budget raise
SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4“It was the happiest moment of my life.” 
Jim Obergefell
Accent speakerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Graduate Student Panel pre-
sented by HSF
Come on out to our Graduate 
Student Panel, where students 
will learn more about various graduate schools. The event is free, dinner will be provided 
at no cost and scholarships 
are presented at every meet-ing. Join us in Little Hall Room 239 on Thursday at 7:20 p.m. Please RSVP at bit.ly/1ZsLRKv 
and join our Facebook group 
at facebook.com/groups/hs-fatuf. Email us at hsfscholar-chapteruf@gmail for more in-
formation.
Adventure Race
Adventure Race 2015 will be 
taking place Oct. 24 at Lake 
Wauburg. If you have not reg-
istered yet, you can still regis-ter on RSConnect to be on the waiting list if a team drops out. 
Swamp Bowl Flag Football 
TournamentDon’t forget to register for the Swamp Bowl Flag Football 
tournament by Oct. 20 at 5 
p.m. Compete against teams from more than 30 universities that send their best intramural 
sports flag football teams and 
officials to UF. The tournament will take place Oct. 23 - Oct. 25. You can have just men or women teams that consist of 7 
players or co-rec teams with 8 
players (4 men and 4 women). Register on RSConnect.
“First Colony: Our Spanish 
Origins” Exhibit Celebration“First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” is coming to the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. This bilingual and 
interactive exhibit reveals the story of how Spaniards, free and enslaved Africans 
and Native Americans crafted 
America’s original “melting pot” in St. Augustine in 1565, long before Jamestown. Join the museum Saturday from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. as it welcomes 
the exhibit with a free celebra-tion including hands-on activi-ties and displays. For more in-
formation, call 352-846-2000.
Drive a tractor at the fall festival
The Agronomy-Soils Club pres-
ents the annual Fall Festival Nov. 4 from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the Agronomy Teaching Farm located at 2024 IFAS Research 
Drive. Activities include free 
food, games, harvesting crops, driving a tractor and more. Support the field and fork pan-try with a nonperishable dona-
tion as admission.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a Welcome to New York-themed 
event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature Joe’s Spray Can Artist, live music from DJ 
Olympus and the Pride Student 
Union Drag Ball. GatorNights will also host the movie Trainwreck at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza and Broadway karaoke during Midnight Munchies. This event is free 
for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
UF School of Theatre + Dance 
Presents “The Drowsy 
Chaperone”
“The Drowsy Chaperone,” which pays homage to mu-sical comedies of America’s 
Jazz Age, will be performed 
at UF’s Constans Theatre from Friday until Oct. 25. Performance times are 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and 
Oct. 20 and 24, and at 2 p.m. 
Sunday  and Oct. 25. Tickets are $13 for UF students, $15 for UF faculty/staff and senior 
citizens and $18 for the gen-
eral public. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu/calendar. Tickets are available through the University Box 
Office, by calling 352-392-1653 
or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation online using #DrowsyChaperoneUF.
Toastmasters meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Dr., UF campus, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. "The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to pro-vide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to de-velop communication and lead-ership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth."
Funding opportunity for of-in-
terest graduate studentsThe International Center, in conjunction with UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Graduate School and Office of 
the Provost, is pleased to an-
nounce the 2015-2016 Research Abroad for Graduate Students funding opportunity. This op-
portunity is open to advanced 
doctoral students in the sci-
ence, technology, engineering or mathematics disciplines to conduct an extended period of research at a foreign labora-tory or field-site during Spring or Summer 2016. Selected students will receive fund-ing up to $10,000 for the costs of the international research trip. Applicants should submit all materials electronically to the Office for Global Research Engagement at OGRE@ufic.ufl.edu with subject line “Research Abroad for Graduate Students Application” no later than Oct. 23 at 3 p.m. For complete de-tails and an application form, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/OGRE/FundingOpp. Please direct any questions to Nikki Kernaghan at nikkik@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 38
HIGH  84° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Kristine   
  Janata, Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
room, where the woman said Por-
ter had been standing, according to the report. 
Tobias said neighbors told po-
lice they heard an altercation and a 
gunshot that morning. 
At about 11:44 p.m. the next 
night, Porter was one of two peo-
ple stopped by police in a parking lot outside Apartment Hunters, lo-cated at 2950 SW Archer Rd., after an officer noticed their parked car, according to an additional police report. 
Police found a loaded .45 caliber 
Springfield gun inside the waist-band of the driver’s pants and ad-ditional rounds of ammunition and a bag with 30.8 grams of marijuana near the passenger seat and in the glove compartment of the car.  
The driver, Justin Acevedo, 20, 
was arrested for possession of more 
than 20 grams of marijuana, carry-
ing a concealed firearm and car-rying a concealed firearm during the commission of a felony. Porter was handcuffed, but said he didn’t know about the marijuana and was released on his own recognizance. 
Police are currently investigat-
ing if the shell casing from the 
woman’s apartment matches the 
gun found in the car, Tobias said. He said the two cases are otherwise unrelated. 
Police charged Porter with ag-
gravated battery, two counts of ag-gravated assault without intent to kill, firing a weapon or missile into a building and criminal mischief, 
causing less than $200 in damage. 
He was taken to the Alachua Coun-ty Jail, where as of press time, he is being held in lieu of a $160,000 bond. 
The charges of aggravated bat-
tery and firing a weapon have been listed as second-degree felonies while the two counts of aggravated 
assault are listed as third-degree 
felonies, according to Alachua County court records. The criminal mischief charge is a second-degree misdemeanor. 
Tobias said the aggravated bat-
tery charge will be considered do-mestic violence because Porter and the woman did live together at one 
point.
“This is someone that made a 
choice, and a very horrible choice, 
that is going to not only cost him a lot, but also cost the victim even more,” Tobias said. “This is some-thing that she is going to have to live with. Put yourself in her shoes.”
Porter, a redshirt freshman de-
fensive back, was a three-star re-cruit from the 2014 recruiting class out of Tampa’s Thomas Jefferson High School. In four games this season, Porter has played mostly on special teams and has recorded two tackles. He has not played since Florida’s 28-27 win against Tennessee on Sept. 26.
“OK, there’s a man down. It 
was his choice,” McElwain said. “Choose what you want to do, right? … Life’s full of choices.”4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
PORTER,  from pg1Charged with second- 
and third-degree felonies
and family funded a $13,000 char-
tered medical jet so he and Arthur could fly to Maryland to wed.
They were married on the airport 
tarmac minutes after they landed, he 
said.
“It was the happiest moment of 
my life,” he said.
Arthur died three months af-
ter the wedding, Obergefell said. 
Obergefell’s request to be listed as Arthur’s surviving spouse on his 
death certificate was what brought 
him to the Supreme Court.
When Justice Anthony Kennedy 
read the decision of the court June 26, the tears began to flow, he said. He didn’t listen to a single word of the dissent.
“I felt more of an American than I 
ever had,” he said.
He told the audience he consid-
ers himself an “accidental activist,” 
and the fight for LGBTQ+ rights is 
far from over.
He said job discrimination against 
LGBTQ+ individuals is still preva-lent in the U.S., and people need to be educated on transgender issues.
“That’s something worth fighting 
for,” he said.UF’s Assistant Vice President of 
Student Affairs Mary Kay Carodine said she went to high school with Obergefell. She thought his speech 
was moving.
“For me, it shows that hopefully 
everyone thinks deeply about the 
purpose of their life,” she said.
UF public health senior Arielle 
Konen said she was anxious to see Obergefell speak because marriage equality is a small part of the LG-BTQ+ movement. She said she was happy to see he talked about gay people of color and transgender is-
sues.
“I thought it was pretty powerful 
to see that one’s own personal story 
can be blown up to be the figure-head of an entire movement,” the 21-year-old said.
ACCENT,  from pg1Considers himself an ‘accidental activist’SENATORS VOTED 19-13.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Senate struck 
down a resolution Wednesday evening that supported concealed carry on Florida college and university campuses.
The resolution, written by Sen. Benjamin 
Myers and Sen. Paul Jenkins, called for Santa Fe to support two bills in the Florida legisla-ture to allow concealed carry on public college campuses.
The senators voted 19-13 against the reso-
lution, with six abstaining. The vote followed 
a discussion on the resolution during last 
week’s senate meeting.
Myers presented a PowerPoint presentation 
outlining the requirements to obtain a con-cealed carry permit, and showing statistics al-leging crimes have gone down in Florida since the state allowed concealed carry permits and that a majority of mass shootings happen in gun free zones.“It might be a coincident, it might not be,” 
Myers said, “but I’m seeing a trend across all the world — as gun control goes up, so do the violent crimes. As gun control gets looser and 
the rights are restored to the public, they tend 
to go down.”
The resolution faced opposition and criti-
cism from the chamber, with some saying they would feel unsafe allowing guns on campus.
“I feel like just more exposure to guns is 
unsafe on a large campus,” said Sen. Isabel Ri-vera. “We do have a police department here, so I feel it’s the police department’s job (to keep us safe).”
Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser and 
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book have said they oppose allowing concealed carry on campus.
Despite his resolution being shot down, 
Myers said he might present other resolutions in the future to allow concealed carry on cam-pus.
“I don’t want any mass shootings to ever 
happen again,” he said during the meeting. “Will my wish come true? Probably not, but I’m going to do my damnedest to prevent as many as I can.”
SFC Senate strikes down resolution supporting concealed carry
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
Jim Obergefell shares his experience in the federal marriage equal-
ity court case Obergefell v. Hodges in the University Auditorium on Wednesday. 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Growing up on the eastern 
shore of Maryland, Julie Meyer 
was always around water.
This influenced the 39-year-old 
to explore marine science, and 
now the UF postdoctoral scientist 
is a L’Oréal USA For Women in Science fellowship winner, wrote L’Oréal USA’s Director of External Communications Emily Stephens in an email. Meyer is one of five women in the country receiving a $60,000 grant to apply to her re-search.
Meyer said she applied for the 
fellowship in March and was sur-prised when she found out she won in August.
“There are a lot of applicants to 
the program, and it’s always very competitive, so I was a little bit surprised but definitely honored,” she said.
The grant will go toward her re-
search on the interactions of bac-teria on the surface of coral and 
how the bacte-ria affects the 
coral’s health, 
she said. It will 
also help fund a short documen-tary that will feature women in coral reef re-search through-
out Florida.
Meyer said she hopes to inspire 
young women to get into science with the video.
“I knew when I was in middle 
school that I wanted to be a scien-tist, but most students don’t know what they want to do at that age,” she said. “I think exposing middle school or high school girls to ca-reers in science, whether it’s ma-rine biology or not, is important.”
Valerie Paul, the director of 
the Smithsonian Marine Station in Fort Pierce, Florida, said she has been studying coral diseases with Meyer for years.
“Working with Julie’s great,” 
she said. “She’s really skilled and very talented and gets the job done.”
Paul said she believes Meyer 
was chosen for the fellowship because she’s tackling important problems, such as how to elimi-nate black band disease, which is 
caused by bacteria that kill many 
species of coral around the world.
Lauren Paige, the vice presi-
dent of public affairs and strategic initiatives at L’Oréal USA, wrote in an email Meyer’s commitment to mentoring young women scien-tists is impressive.
“Science depends on female 
scientists like Julie to be a role model for girls looking to enter scientific fields,” she said.
UF scientist wins L’Oré al grant
Because she’s worth it
Florida football legal 
issues since April
April 9:  Gainesville Police file 
a sworn complaint charging wide 
receiver Chris Thompson with mis-
demeanor simple battery after he reportedly scratched and bruised his former girlfriend during an ar-
gument. The case was dropped 
on April 13 due to insufficient evi-dence, according to Alachua County 
court records.
April 18:  Gainesville Police ar-
rest defensive back J.C. Jackson after he reportedly was part of an 
armed robbery at a Gainesville apartment complex. He was re-moved from Florida’s roster on June 
30. He was formally charged with 
four first-degree felonies — three counts of home invasion robbery 
while armed with a firearm and one 
count of burglary — on July 20. The case is still ongoing.
July 4:  Running back Adam 
Lane and defensive tackle Caleb 
Brantley are cited for leaving Splitz 
Bowling Alley in Gainesville with-out paying their tabs. Both players were charged with defrauding an 
innkeeper of under $300, a second-
degree misdemeanor.
July 25:  Wide receiver Alvin 
Bailey is arrested in Tampa on an 
outstanding warrant for failing to 
appear in court on a May misde-meanor citation for driving with a suspended or revoked license.
Wednesday:  Defensive back 
Deiondre Porter is arrested for re-
portedly firing a gun in the direction 
of his pregnant girlfriend in late Sep-tember.Meyer
By Emily Cochrane 
Alligator Staff Writer 
ecochrane@alligator.org 
University Police is investigating the 
death of a UF student that occurred in 
North Hall on Wednesday morning. 
Some time after noon Wednesday, Uni-
versity Police were called to North Hall, which is a pre-health living learning com-munity in the Tolbert Area. University 
Police spokesman Maj. Brad Barber con-
ﬁ  rmed the death of the student, who police hadn’t named as of press time. Barber said no foul play is suspected. Police are still investigating the incident.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said the 
student was a microbiology freshman from the Tampa area. 
In an email sent by Jen Day Shaw, asso-
ciate vice president and dean of students, to UF parents and families, she wrote on 
behalf of his parents, “He prematurely end-
ed his life due to a struggle from inside.”
UF administration and staff from the 
Counseling and Wellness Center spoke to students Wednesday night in North Library and encouraged them to seek help and as-sistance from resources on campus, includ-ing the Counseling and Wellness Center. 
“Sometimes when people are struggling 
very mightily, they also may not exhibit some signs that others would view as be-ing a sign,” said Lisa Diekow, director of Housing for Residence Life and Education.
“Every Gator counts.” As of press time, no ofﬁ  cial report has 
been released with details about the inci-dent. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CAMPUS
Police investigate student death, no foul play suspected
Student services offered at UF 
U Matter We Care
Email: umatter@uﬂ  .edu
Web Address: umatter.uﬂ  .eduPhone: 352-294-CARE (2273)Twitter: @UMATTERWECARE
Counseling and Wellness Center
Web Address: counseling.uﬂ  .eduPhone: 352-392-1575Hours: Help available 24/7
Valentina Lopez-Diaz gets 
made-up before model-ing a Shama Boutique sari in Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s “Immortal” Fash-ion Show. “I’ve always wanted to model, but I’m petite, ” the 19-year-old UF marketing sophomore said. She had modeled commercially before and decided to try out for the show after hearing it was open to models of all races and sizes.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff CLOTHING KALEIDOSCOPE 
Victoria Hutchins, a 21-year-old UF electrical engineering ﬁ  fth-year student, models a sari from Shama Boutique in Asian Kaleidoscope Month’s “Immortal” Fashion Show on Wednesday. The show also featured work by other Asian designers, including Hanmiao Yang, Jeff Ng and Tina T andon.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
A new path may lead to wonderful possibilities
College is where you ﬁ  nd your life pas-
sion and follow your dreams. Unfortu-nately, after 42 years as a university student, professor and administrator, I haven’t yet discovered my life passion, 
and I’m not following a dream.
I shared my life predicament during Summer 
commencement in August, and many students and families have since told me they appreci-ated hearing that my life journey is similar to theirs. At the risk of boring those who have memorized my commencement speeches, I want to share a few points made at Summer graduation.
What if, despite spending years earning your valuable 
UF degree, you’re still not quite sure about your passion or your dreams keep changing? What if, when you listen to your inner voice, you don’t hear anything?  
It is OK. More than OK. In fact, it may even be prefer-
able not to hear voices.
Uncertainty in our lives and in our careers is good, 
whether we work in science, the arts...and yes, even high-er education leadership. I’ve learned to start down any one of the several good paths before me and let my jour-ney reveal my direction and shape my dreams. 
I come to this advice from my personal experience. 
Like most UF students, I changed my major while in col-lege and ended up with a degree in engineering. However, when it came time for graduation, I didn’t want to be an engineer — I wanted to be a pastor in a church.
I pursued a three-year master’s degree in divinity 
school. In my second year, I took a homiletics class on the art of writing and preaching sermons. It didn’t go so well. What I learned was this: I was not very good at reaching people’s hearts, but I could reach their minds. I was a bet-ter teacher than I was a preacher.
I decided I would be a college teacher, so for ﬁ  ve more 
years I pursued graduate studies in electrical and com-puter engineering, and I eventually became a university professor.
During my years as a professor, I knew for 
certain I would never be a university adminis-trator. I only wanted to teach students and work in my lab. I rejected opportunities to serve as department chair but then changed my mind and became a chair.
For years, I then promised myself and every-
one around me I would never be a dean — but 
indeed again I changed my mind and became a dean and later a provost. As recently as two years ago, I publicly proclaimed I would never be interested in serving as a university president.
I have found over the past 42 years of university stud-
ies and my career that uncertainty in the future has been the best part of my life’s path. My path has been richer and more meaningful than what I would have planned. I didn’t have a dream or a passion that I followed. Rather, my dreams and passions emerged and developed with my opportunities and actions.
I have the utmost respect and admiration for those 
whose life paths are straight and sure. But zigging this way and then zagging that way is the more common path — and often the zigging and zagging is the better path. I am a better person and a better president due to the lack of a clear, straight vision for my studies and career.
As you study at UF and then launch into a world of con-
stantly evolving challenges and opportunities, whenever your inner voice changes things up on you — or worse, when it doesn’t seem to say anything at all — I hope you hear my voice: Let your dreams and passions follow you.
Godspeed as you move forward in your studies and 
plans for a career — eyes and hearts open to your chang-ing path and its many wonderful possibilities.
Kent Fuchs is the President of the University of Florida. 
His columns appear monthly.
The reality of Israel 
is more complex 
than many realize
Yesterday afternoon, Israeli ofﬁ  cials deployed soldiers 
and military checkpoints around its cities in a preventa-tive measure aimed at reducing the number of attacks — mostly stabbings — that have ravaged Israeli civil-ians in the last few weeks. According to the Red Cres-
cent, 30 Palestinians have been killed and 4,200 wounded in the violence of the last few weeks. In contrast, seven Israelis have been killed and 99 wounded, according to the Red Cross.
Now, having read those numbers, immediately stop yourself 
before you make a snap judgment. Stop to consider the histori-cal precedents and reality of the Israel-Palestine conﬂ  ict. This current wave of violence, which may or may not shape up to be a third Intifada, began when rumors spread that Israel was intending on opening up the Temple Mount, a particularly holy 
site for Muslims in Jerusalem, to non-Jews. Despite this being 
untrue, Palestinian and Islamic clerics responded by calling for the murder of Jews en masse. Unlike previous waves of terror-ism, which have been primarily driven by formally organized groups dedicated to destroying Israel and establishing a Pales-tinian state, these attacks appear to be the actions of individuals operating independently of any organization.
The random nature of these stabbings has understandably 
left many Jews — both in Israel and abroad — fearful for the 
ever-chaotic future of the state. These events have emboldened 
both Zionists and advocates for Palestinian sovereignty, with both sides ramping up their rhetoric to deafening levels.
Before we make our views known, we’d like to take a para-
graph to address several major U.S. media outlets. It’s particu-larly interesting prominent reporting on these attacks — which have been occurring for several weeks now — didn’t begin in earnest until the Israeli military stepped up its presence yester-day. As always, way to keep it classy.
With that said, the reality of the situation is far more com-
plex than the existing reporting — and certainly social media posts — would have one believe. It is shameful when it comes to discussing this conﬂ  ict, otherwise intelligent individuals are all too quick to abandon concepts of nuance or depth.
It is undeniable both sides have wronged one another to an 
upsetting degree: this is an undisputable fact. It is also true this conﬂ  ict cannot be understood solely within the context of Is-rael’s history, but rather by the history of the land itself and the 
Jewish people alike. To reduce it solely to Israel is to do both 
peoples and those who have died in the conﬂ  ict a disservice.
As far as we see it, given the historical precedence and dis-
crimination that stretches far beyond the Holocaust, Jews have every right to claim a home in the Middle East; at the same time, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the Likud Party have done more to discriminate, degrade and undermine Pales-tinians than any other leaders in the nation’s history.
Conversely, Palestinians have undoubtedly had tremendous 
and unnecessary wrongs committed against them and have ev-ery right to desire that their grievances be redressed. With that said, ditching civil progress in favor of murdering and terror-izing Israel’s Jewish civilian population is deplorable, horrifying and is in no way justiﬁ  able, nor should it garner sympathy.
As much as we stand behind our above assertions, even 
these paragraphs fail to do justice to the profound complexities of the situation but at least we will be the ﬁ  rst to acknowledge it. Do not let this tragic conﬂ  ict, as well as the lives it has taken, 
be reduced to news sound bites and terse social media posts.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, UF Student Government 
coordinated a series of events in accordance with Sexual Assault 
Awareness Week. Events held dur-
ing the week included a panel in 
which survivors of sexual assault spoke of their experiences and the prevalence of 
the trend.
In the vein of sexual assault, it’s 
prompted me to recount my own experi-
ences as a survivor.
Each year, there are about 293,000 victims of 
sexual assault, with 68 percent of cases not being reported to police and roughly 80 percent of cases being perpetrated by someone the victim knows, ac-cording to the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Net-
work.
The “profound” idea that “respectable” people 
don’t rape has been projected onto society. This im-
age of predatory men lying in wait within dark al-leyways is just not true for most people.
Twenty-ﬁ  ve percent of perpetrators are intimate 
partners of victims, according to RAINN.
The idea of sexual assault is usually predicated 
on nonconsensual sex. But what is consent? Is the 
narrative of a verbal yes sufﬁ  cient to describe con-
sent? In my experiences: no.
It’s more complex than that. One’s body lan-
guage and mannerisms tie into one’s consent, and even when answered with a yes, it can be coerced.
If we ever want to entertain the idea of unlearn-
ing rape culture on a cultural level, and if we de-sire to reach a point in which we have autonomy over our own bodies without the fear of violence, 
we need to have a conversation that contests and 
challenges the dominant meanings of these terms and how they manifest themselves in our daily lives.
I’ve been reluctant to share my story on a public 
forum as a survivor because for so long, I actually 
denied that it, in fact, happened.
As a transwoman, I’ve routinely been harassed 
by random men in public spaces, but I never would have imagined it happening with a past 
partner.
It happened over the summer, and the 
person I was dating at the time was stay-ing at my parent’s house. They made at-tempts to pressure me into sex with subtle insinuations despite my hesitance and dis-
interest.
But eventually, I gave in. After that, I 
don’t remember much else that ensued; I 
was so horriﬁ  ed from the situation I de-
tached myself from what was happening.
Though we had parted ways shortly after that 
night, once I came to terms with what happened, I confronted my ex-partner and was told I was over-reacting.
What was more troubling was when I told my 
mother, she expressed that I was not assaulted and I was at fault. She apologized for her comments later.
But if that was the case, how did I experience 
trauma? Why did I feel my body was not my own?
The problem is sexual contact is so expected from 
other people; it’s seen as something one should be entitled to, even at the expense of another’s con-sent. Somehow, this is socially acceptable.
But it’s not even noticeable because of our ideas 
of consent I discussed previously. Perhaps it’s re-lated to the image we’ve painted as the rapist: the unfamiliar and the monster.
Consent is not the simple yes-or-no dynamic pre-
sented by people in law and politics who are over-whelmingly wealthy men, barely phased by what is going on in others' lives concerning sexual violence.
Consent is an ongoing conversation of deﬁ  ning 
boundaries between one another. We don’t have to wait for some utopia to combat rape culture: It can happen right now.
We must combat even the seemingly implicit 
ways that coerce us into preconceived expectations, 
which divide us into perpetrators and victims.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Thursdays.Let's redeﬁ  ne consent to combat rape cultureColumn
L   ast week, presi-
dential candidate and retired neu-
rosurgeon Ben 
Carson made a 
string of comments on the shooting in Oregon. 
One of Dr. Carson’s 
claims was if the Jews in Nazi Germany had been armed, then Hitler’s plans for the Holocaust would have 
been greatly diminished. This line 
of inane rhetoric is nothing new, with many in the National Riﬂ  e Association (NRA) and other gun 
lobby groups citing this ill-thought-
out hypothetical for several years.
We can completely ignore the 
historical context of the highly built up military apparatus in Ger-
many at the time, or the fact that 
some Jews did attempt armed re-sistance and ultimately failed in not just Germany, but other parts 
of Nazi-occupied Europe as well.
Instead, the main message here 
is that an armed populace would 
be able to maintain a check on the government. Many will point 
to the Second Amendment as a 
testament to the Founding Fa-thers’ will for the populace to be armed against tyranny. While it 
may be true that armed farmers 
could have put up a ﬁ  ght against the United States army at the time, there is absolutely no conceivable way the circumstances of the late 
18th century and the 19th century 
could be relevant to overthrowing tyrants today.
This mythos of revolting 
against tyrannical governments has allowed trouble to remain possible in the 21st century. As a country that spends more on its military than any other country, 
we have made many technologi-
cal advancements when it comes to war. Drones alone could hinder any attempt at overthrowing tyran-
nical governments.
But there is a reason we are not 
actively living in a wet dream of 
Thomas Jefferson, having to feed the “tree of liberty” with the “blood of patri-ots and tyrants.” Unlike 
the early days of this 
country, we know our system of government works, and it does so 
relatively well.
Yes, the system is 
very far from perfect. 
However, the rules of politics in 
this country are relatively clean 
and well deﬁ  ned. We have a sys-
tem of government that makes it impossible for a single person to have tyrannical power. We have 
frequent elections that give us, the 
citizenry, the ability to oust people from ofﬁ  ce we feel are not effec-tively representing us in our dis-tricts, state or country (although 
we often fail to do so). The long 
term investment in the Constitu-tion has paid off.
Honestly, the notion that any-
one who advocates for more gun control is aligned with Pol Pot, Hitler or Mussolini is pettifogging the larger issue. This is not the only argument against the case for 
comprehensive gun legislation, as 
there are many to choose from.
What the NRA has done is cre-
ated an effective spin zone, where 
guns are not the reason for mass 
shootings. In their eyes, mass shootings can be redirected to mental health.
I am not writing this as some-
one who is an advocate for abol-ishing the Second Amendment, but gun control is far from perfect in this country. The background 
check system is heavily ﬂ  awed, 
and let’s be real, there are no sub-stantive reasons for anyone to own an assault weapon.
But of course, we cannot talk 
about simple reforms, so instead I had to spend this article rebutting a candidate’s idiotic statement that had little to do with gun control. 
So it goes.
Kevin Foster is a UF political 
science senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.Gun control reform is 
muddled by spin zonesColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
Aubrey 
Krampert
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Brandon DelPino, a 19-year-
old UF music and chemistry sophomore, plays the trom-bone with his band Solar Ellip-sis during the Pop-Up Culture event on Wednesday. DelPino has been playing with the three-man jazz hip-hop fusion band for about one year.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Associate in Book Arts Ellen Knudson (left) teaches Adela Kore, a 21-year-old UF nutrition senior, how to use her 1960s-era letter-press. At the Pop-Up Culture event, Knudson said the press was doing what it was made for: quick, dirty, handmade posters.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Melissa Vailikit, a 19-year-old UF international studies and Chinese sophomore, paints the Chinese character for love on Catey Clark, an 18-year-old UF dance fresh-man, at UF’s Pop-Up Culture event, which celebrated arts and humanities. “Everyone needs love, ” Clark said about her symbol choice.
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Erika Feazell’s way to class, 
color caught her eye.
The 18-year-old UF criminology 
and law freshman strolled on the 
Plaza of the Americas and looked at the UF College of the Arts’ Pop-Up Culture event, where paintings 
hung between trees on clothesline, 
hip-hop dancers performed  and students waited for screen-printed T-shirts. About 500 people attend-ed. 
Booths with photo frames and 
props, painted temporary Chinese tattoos and a letterpress where students made small posters lined 
the sidewalks as the college cel-ebrated National Art and Humani-
ties Month, said Leah Spellman, 
the public relations and marketing 
manager of the UF College of the Arts.
Feazell said she liked the Sci 
Chic booth, where students showed 
off their 3-D printed jewelry.
Erin Winick, the UF mechanical 
engineering senior who created Sci 
Chic, launched the science-inspired 
fashion and jewelry line last week.
“It was a way for me to combine 
my passion of 3-D printing, fashion 
and engineering,” the 21-year-old said.
Feazell said her favorite piece of 
jewelry was the large, blue atom-shaped necklace Winick was wear-ing.After moseying around the 
event and talking with people at 
several booths, she said she picked 
up a free T-shirt that was screen-printed on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas.
Spellman said students don’t 
always know about the college’s resources, such as lectures or ac-tivities.
“A wonderful part of the college 
experience is to engage in activi-ties,” she said.
The event had a larger turnout 
than last year, with 34 registered groups compared to the 14 last 
year.
“The more people know about 
it, the bigger it gets,” she said.UF students explore alternative artKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Nomadic author returns to GNV to speak travels, sign books
The author will speak at the Headquarters Branch Library, pg 13.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 10.The Avenue reviews The Game’s new album, pg 11.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Noah Gundersen will be per-
forming in Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst 
time Friday and the singer/song-writer knows he’s headed into a town that takes its football seri-
ously. He thought this would be 
the year he ﬁ  nally got into football — but it hasn’t happened for him yet.
Gundersen recalled his time in 
middle school, where he want-ed to play sports because all the “cool kids were good at sports.” Meanwhile, he was the awkward 
kid who would write songs in his 
bedroom.
It seems to have paid off for 
him.            
“Thankfully, I’m still doing the 
thing I was doing at 13,” Gunder-sen said in a phone call from an Airbnb in Atlanta, “while a lot of the kids who were playing sports 
at 13 are no longer playing sports.”
Now, the singer will be per-
forming at 9:30 p.m. at High Dive, 
located at 210 SW Second Ave. Tickets are available for $14 at the door or for $12 in advance on tick-etﬂ  y.com.
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, wrote in an email showgoers could expect a “laid back night of acoustic songs” and a “healthy crowd of indie folk lov-
ers” at the show.
“If you’re looking to dance and 
party, and get your drink on, may-
be my show is not what you’re looking for,” Gundersen said, laughing at his joke, “so maybe what I should say is ‘Don’t come to my show if you’re looking to party.’”
His songs have been featured 
on multiple TV shows, including “Sons of Anarchy” and “The Vam-
pire Diaries,” and Rolling Stone 
called him “one old soul,” noting his maturity as a performer and artist.
The 25-year-old folk artist, who 
typically stays at hotels, has taken advantage of his limited downtime at the Airbnb by reading books on the front porch, such as Jonathan 
Franzen’s latest work.
Lavery said Gundersen is 
signed to Dualtone Records, the 
label that launched the careers of bands like The Lumineers and 
Shovels & Rope.
The singer is touring behind 
his late August release “Carry the 
Ghost,” and according to his Face-book, the tour has been the most impactful thus far.The album, musically and lyri-
cally, can be considered some of his darkest but most mature work to date.
The young Seattleite penned 
some of his most vulnerable lyr-
ics for “Carry the Ghost” and per-
forms them in the sad, deliberate and meaningful style he is known for, creating a philosophical and even existential album.
“I write songs primarily as a 
way to process my own thoughts,” Gundersen said, “and express my-self creatively and attempt to be 
as honest as possible.”
For Gundersen, those seem to 
be the things that matter the most 
to people.
They matter in the music and 
art he likes to consume, he said. A level of vulnerability, honesty and the things that are most hu-man bring realness to art and mu-
sic. However, they’re “not always 
pretty and aren’t always sexy,” he said.
The singer said he likes to fo-
cus on the blood and guts, shar-ing his honest thoughts with the world without worrying what people think. He believes as soon as artists worry about what oth-
ers think, their honesty begins to 
diminish. When you make and share any kind of art, he said, you can no longer control how it will be interpreted because people are going to create their own kind of meaning.
He thinks it’s great.“As long as it’s meaningful, and 
you know it helps them be able to process their own emotions or -- if nothing else just feel less alone -- then I feel like it’s made a positive impact,” Gundersen said.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Folk artist to perform at High Dive
The show is on Friday
ABOVE:
Noah Gundersen is tour-
ing behind his latest al-bum, “Carry the Ghost, ” his darkest but most mature work to date.
Courtesy to the Alligator
BELOW:
Folk artist Noah Gunder-sen will be performing at 9:30 p.m. on Friday at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 9 p.m., and tickets are available for $14 at the door or for $12 in advance on ticketfly.com.
Courtesy to the AlligatorTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
THE GAME RELEASES “THE DOCUMENTARY 2” ff the Record
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
The Game’s highly anticipated seventh 
studio album, “The Documentary 2,” was 
released Friday.
 The album is a sequel to The Game’s 
debut album, “The Documentary,” which was released 10 years ago. 
Over the years, The Game has adapted 
to the new-school sound but he reverts to his classic style and to more of a true rap sound on this album. 
The overall production is immaculate, 
with tracks coming from will.i.am., Hit 
Boy, Mike WiLL Made-It, Boi-1da, DJ Pre-
mier, Cardo and more.
Because “The Documentary 2” features 
a variety of artists and producers that con-
tribute varied sounds to each track, the 
album has different vibes but still comes 
together as a cohesive unit.
“The Documentary 2” begins with a 
‘90s-style skit which sets the mood for the 
rest of the album, where Game confronts 
someone who tries to run up on him. 
The ﬁ  rst song is “On Me,” which fea-tures fellow Compton rapper and protégé Kendrick Lamar. The beat on “On Me” 
switches up a couple of times as Game and 
K Dot trade verses. 
On “Don’t Trip,” The Game is joined 
by his mentor Dr. Dre and former N.W.A. rapper Ice Cube as well as will.i.am. The 
Game constantly raps about the inﬂ  uence Dr. Dre, Ice Cube and the classic West 
Coast sound has had on him, so it’s cool to see these rap greats reunite and prove they still have what it takes after 30 years in the game. Meanwhile, “Standing on Ferraris” 
brings East and West Coast together.
“Standing on Ferraris” is a brash in-
your-face-type song produced by Jahil 
Beats. The song features Diddy and sam-
ples Notorious B.I.G.’s “Kick In The Door” 
and “Things Done Changed.” 
Despite The Game being a West Coast 
rapper, the Notorious B.I.G. samples and Diddy talking on the outro gives us a clas-
sic-Biggie vibe. 
“Dollar And A Dream” keeps the energy 
going and The Game continues to snap as 
Top Dawg Entertainment member Ab-Soul 
makes an appearance. “Dollar And A Dream” mixes directly 
into “Made In America,” where The Game 
talks about the inﬂ  uence rap greats like 2Pac and Nas have had on him.
He shouts out a few different cities and 
areas across the U.S. that produce a lot of rap talent, such as New York areas Queens-bridge and Yonkers — and let’s not forget the rapper’s hometown: Compton.
The Game uses “Circles” to tell an all-
too-familiar story in which he argues with the woman he’s with because he keeps coming home late and continues to see other women with no regard to his current 
relationship. 
After another short skit, the album con-
tinues with “Dedicated,” which features 
Future and Sonyae. The Game has worked 
with Future before but his rough voice 
with Future’s singing is always a dope combination. 
Further along, Game brings back Yee-
zus on the banger “Mula.” Although Kanye 
doesn’t have a verse, the hook he sings has 
a different sound than what we typically hear from him. 
The Game follows up “Mula” with “The 
Documentary 2,” where he recaps the last 10 years since his debut album was re-leased.
The song ends with excerpts from DJ Clue, DJ Envy and Funkmaster Flex talk-ing about what they each thought when they ﬁ  rst heard The Game — and how they knew he would eventually become one of the best rappers.
On “New York, New York,” The Game 
gives his opinions on a number of contro-versial topics from police brutality to the Charleston shooting. 
He keeps it “eight more than 92” as he 
raps about the disturbing reality of those recent happenings — and in case you were wondering, The Game and Drake’s hit sin-gle “100” is on the album as well.
“The Documentary 2” comes to an end 
with “LA,” featuring West Coast afﬁ  liates Snoop Dogg, will.i.am. and Fergie. 
The Game, like he does so often, shouts 
out Compton and Los Angeles over a feel-good beat that will leave you ready to buy a one-way ticket to California.
The Los Angeles Conﬁ  dential made an 
instant classic with “The Documentary 2.” 
Many have complained about the num-
ber of features on the album, but other than that, “The Documentary 2” lives up to its hype and is a must-listen. 
But get ready, because “The Documen-
tary 2” is a double album. 
The second half, “The Documentary 
2.5,” drops Friday.
There’s more to come on Friday Hey Mediocre Advice,My boyfriend likes me to call him “Daddy” and devia-
tions thereof (Papa, Daddy-o, my big strong man, you get 
the idea) in bed. This is all well and good since I’m all 
about daddy-daughter play, but my own father just came back into my life after a prolonged absence, and it’s made me really confused about the whole endeavor. Should I tell 
my boyfriend to beat it with this dad business until I sort 
out my own issues, and do I run the risk of messing myself up even more if I keep having lunch with my father before meeting with my other daddy in the Ruby Tuesday’s park-ing lot?
- Daring & Dangerous
Just when I thought I went to school with normal 
people. Right when I was actually starting to get a hang of this whole “writing” thing. Then you guys hit me with this s---. Here it goes. My advice: Wait. Why are you meeting in the Ruby Tuesday’s parking lot? OK, my ad-vice: Keep up the whole “daddy” thing. Clearly you have 
an Electra complex, but this is not something to be hid-
den – it’s something to be celebrated.
As a senior, if you could give any piece of advice to your 
freshman-self, what would it be?
- AnonymousBefore coming to college my oldest brother told me I 
would never regret staying in at night to study instead of going out to party. Boy, was he wrong. Dear freshmen, I 
hope you are reading this. I hope you see me as the mys-
tical senior guru that I am. Heed my words: Don’t worry about school; you aren’t going to ﬁ  nd a job anyway. Go out every night, let your grades fall by the wayside, make 
friends while you’re drunk, don’t worry about ﬁ  nding a 
mentor or role model and please, 100 percent make sure you sleep through all of your classes.
I accidentally friend-zone every new guy I meet, even 
if I’d rather have more beneﬁ  ts than just a friend. How do I stop putting them in the friend zone and get on their radar ;)?
- Friendly & Forsaken
Do I know you? Are you trying to come onto me in a 
public forum? NO, I WILL NOT MAKE OUT WITH YOU. I’M HERE TO WRITE. This may come off as offensive. Actually, whenever you have to preface anything with 
“this may come off as offensive,” you can be certain it 
will deﬁ  nitely come off as offensive. But, like, guys are pretty one-dimensional. As soon as they meet a girl their primary objective is to hook up with them. It’s just sci-
ence, OK? It is only until you friend-zone them that they 
lose faith and become friends with you (in hope they can hook up with you at a later point). These guys are trying to jump your bones every time they see you. That is, until you burp in front of one of them, punch them in the arm 
and say, “Sup bro?”
What’s the right way to do Gameday?
- Anonymous
You only need ﬁ  ve things: overalls, beers, keys to 
shotgun your beers, a phony knowledge of football and 
sunglasses that allow you to veil your eyes and thereby further the male gaze.
MEDIOCRE ADVICEI Give Really Bad Advice
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English senior. His 
column appears in the Avenue section on Thursdays. 
If you have any questions you would like to see 
answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
Rock ‘n’ roll band BOYTOY is 
coming to Gainesville, and vo-
calist/guitarist Glenn Vann Dyke 
urges everyone to put on their 
dancing shoes.
The Brooklyn trio is one part 
dance-y, one part fun, and two 
parts authentic rock ‘n’ roll. The 
band will be performing Monday at The Atlantic, located at 15 N Main St. Local band Moonbeard will open the show. Doors open 
at 9 p.m., and BOYTOY will per-
form at 10:30 p.m. Tickets are available for $6. 
“We’re just trying to have a 
good time and meet cool peo-ple,” Vann Dyke said.
Jacksonville native Vann 
Dyke is one of the founding members of BOYTOY. The band 
formed in 2013 when she and 
guitarist Saara Untracht-Oakner met while touring in separate bands. When their bands broke 
up, the two got together and re-
alized they had various similari-ties.
“We both surf and skate and 
like music,” Vann Dyke said. “I 
think our styles kind of meshed 
and we thought ‘Oh wow this works, let’s just keep playing music and see where it goes.’”
And it’s been going.Along with drummer Mat-
thew Gregory Aidala – Untracht-Oakner’s old high school friend – the band gained recognition in 
2014. Its captivating live shows 
and self-titled EP caught the at-tention of SPIN, The Village Voice, NYLON and other outlets. 
Last May, Rolling Stone included 
BOYTOY in its playlist section and urged readers to “stretch out on the beach and crank up your headphones for maximum 
effect.”
BOYTOY’s EP had seven 
tracks that were previously cre-
ated by the musicians individu-
ally and “backlogged,” Vann 
Dyke said. But now for the trio’s ﬁ  rst album, “Grackle,” the mem-bers worked together, writing 11 tracks for the album.
The debut album was named 
“Grackle” as a nod to festival South by Southwest’s common bird attendee and the Mexican 
folklore behind the bird. The 
folklore says the grackle, known as “zanate” in Spanish, didn’t have a voice during its creation and had to steal its seven songs 
from the wise and knowing sea 
turtle, according to Vann Dyke.  
While BOYTOY isn’t steal-
ing any sounds from anywhere, 
the album name is suitable for 
the band’s all-around sound.Fans have compared the group to a wide spectrum of bands and 
sounds.
Musician and fan Jaykob 
Quintana, 21, a UF history se-
nior, recently discovered BOY-TOY.
For Quintana, BOYTOY’s 
sound is “perfect skating music.”
“The song features a lot of re-
verb and garage-pop riffs,” Quin-
tana said. “It seems like they’re 
going for a 90s alternative pop-gaze thing.”
Vann Dyke said the band gets 
the ‘60s and the ‘90s a lot.
“Some people will tell us The 
Breeders and then someone else will be like, ‘You remind me of The Kings,’” Vann Dyke said. 
 “Grackle” is a true repre-
sentation of BOYTOY’s authen-tic rock ‘n’ roll sound, but like many bands that give a lot of importance to the performance 
aspect of their music, capturing 
the band’s soul was difﬁ  cult.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a challenge to 
capture the essence of a band in 
the studio,” Vann Dyke said. “It 
all comes down to mixing.”
Vann Dyke studied music at 
NYU’s Tisch School of the Arts, 
which helped her appreciate the 
recording aspect of music mak-ing. She confessed to having to jump around or even have a solo mosh pit to get out of the vortex 
and darkness that occasionally 
prevails in the studio.
The solo mosh pits have paid 
off. The band toured with La Luz 
for two weeks in August and is 
now on its own tour, the longest one the members have done to-gether.
Throughout their newfound 
success, the members have stayed humble. Vann Dyke still gets excited over the little things, like seeing the band’s name on 
the marquee in the Georgia The-
atre in Athens, where they per-formed a week ago. 
When asked how she could 
describe the sound, Vann Dyke 
didn’t really want to label it. She 
prefers to leave it to the listeners to decide.
“I think you can take away 
what you want; there’s some-thing for everyone,” she said. “We’re very versatile; you can hear different inﬂ  uences based on what you like.” Rock band BOYTOY to 
perform at The Atlantic
MUSIC
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
One of history’s most beloved 
novels is coming to the Hippo-
drome State Theatre this October, 
and its task is simple: leave audi-
ences with a new perspective on an old tale.  
“All Girl Frankenstein” is 
based off of the novel by Mary Shelley and transformed by play-wright Bob Fisher. What makes it unique? It’s in the name. “All Girl Frankenstein” has a cast purely 
composed of women. Actors Can-
dace Clift, Jorgia McAfee and Ma-rissa Toogood all play male char-acters in the show.  
“‘All Girl Frankenstein’ is 
based on the classic story, but our story is Frankenstein like you’ve never seen before,” said Sarah Darden, the director of marketing 
and communications at the Hip-
podrome.
The play has a discounted 
preview at 8 p.m. tonight and of-
ﬁ  cially premieres at 8 p.m. Fri-
day, with shows throughout Nov. 8. The play runs Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 7 p.m., Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m., Saturdays 
at 5 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. and Sun-
days at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.
The mission at the Hippodrome 
is to create an artistic home for 
both actors and audience mem-
bers. With the Halloween spe-cial “All Girl Frankenstein,” this creative, contemporary ideal is achieved with an energetic cast 
and a director who isn’t afraid to 
shake things up.
“It’s not going to be anything you think it’s going to be,” said 25-year-old Toogood, who plays 
the youngest Frankenstein — Wil-
liam. “If you think that you under-stand what you’re walking into, then think again.”
Toogood is referring to the pre-
conceived notions that some audi-ence members may have on open-ing night. 
Walking into a play that con-
tains the word Frankenstein, at-tendees may assume there will be gore and guts, but in reality, the show veers away and takes on a new direction. There are un-
derlying themes of sexuality and 
complex family dynamics that will change the way a person thinks after he or she sees it for the ﬁ  rst 
time.
There is an atmosphere be-
tween the cast members and di-
rector that brings months of prep-aration together into a piece that 
is unique and entertaining.  
A lot of energy is required to 
become a different character, and 
the cast of “All Girl Frankenstein” 
takes that energy to a level that 
encompasses the theatre space and leaves a lasting impression on audience members.  
Toogood’s character allowed 
her to tap into her inner child and rediscover that time of her life in a challenging and fun way. 
The UF graduate said being a 
part of the Hippodrome’s compa-ny has been a blessing, and the roles she’s played so far have tak-en her on different journeys.
As for her role as William Fran-
kenstein, her toughest task was whistling.  “I’ve never been a fantastic 
whistler,” Toogood said. “It was something I had to throw myself 
into.”
The cast was able transform 
pre-existing characters into some-
thing distinctive, with subtle 
themes of modern entertainment.  
During a press run put on for 
local websites and newspapers, 
the actors performed the play with passion and zeal like it was 
opening night. 
Even without the full effects of 
costumes and makeup, the quaint 
theatre was transformed into 
something that took spectators on 
a voyage into the action as it was happening. The actors provoked emotions of humor, excitement and despair.   
“They will bring out fear, sad-
ness, suspense,” Darden said in reference to the cast.
The range of characters and ac-
tors is vast. A variety of UF the-atre students and veteran profes-sional actors will grace the stage of the Hippodrome for the show. 
Toogood said the collection 
of different perspectives was something that kept things fresh throughout the entire process.
“They make it feel like family,” 
she said. “There is so much love and passion in that building that it’s ﬁ  lling to the brim.”
The play breathes new life into 
a story that is often called the ﬁ  rst 
science ﬁ  ction novel. There is a 
mixture of both traditional and modern elements intertwined into a piece that aims to entertain and 
leave audiences with a lasting im-
pression.  
“The best plays haunt you,” 
Darden said, “and ‘All Girl Fran-kenstein’ will haunt your dreams.”‘All Girl Frankenstein’ to premiere
Courtesy to the Alligator
“All Girl Frankenstein” will premiere Friday at the Hippodrome State Theatre, 25 SE Second 
Place. A discounted preview will be held tonight at 8 p.m.
Preview show tonight 
“I think our styles kind of 
meshed and we thought ‘Oh 
wow this works, let’s just 
keep playing music and see 
where it goes.’”
Glenn Vann Dyke
vocalist/guitaristTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
He showed up in Miami with $25 in his 
pocket. He paid for a hostel, a $5 dinner, and 
with nothing left in his pockets, he searched 
for a job. That night, Jake Kaida made $100.
For 12 years Kaida lived a nomadic life-
style, traveling and working while writing his 
experiences. His travels have been wrapped 
up in a book of 14 essays called “Blue Collar 
Nomad: The Literary Reﬂ  ections of a Grass-roots Pilgrim.” Now, Kaida is returning to Gainesville, one of his many homes over the years.
The author will read parts of his essays 
and have a book signing during a free event held at 11 a.m. Saturday at the Headquarters Branch Library in downtown Gainesville, 401 
E University Ave.
“A nomad travels seasonally and usually 
for work,” he said.
He planned to travel this way for one 
year in 1998, but he liked it so much he did it for 12 years, ending his journey in 2010. 
He traveled through all 48 contiguous states, crisscrossed the U.S. eight times and lived in Canada for three years in total. His book was 
published last October.
When he traveled he said he would work 
in all different types of jobs. He would stay in a city for two-to-ﬁ  ve months, working in 
bars, the music industry or restaurants. He 
said he even lived on a farm in British Colum-
bia, Canada, and worked at an inn in Maine. He said the people were his best education.
In 1999, he stopped in Gainesville. He 
worked at Simons, which he said was the 
most popular nightclub in America in 1999, 
Soul House Bar and The Covered Dish.
Kaida said his experience was positive. In 
his 12 years, he was never robbed. No matter 
how much money he had or where he stayed, 
he said it “always worked out.”
He carried a backpack and a rucksack. He 
had two high-quality pairs of jeans, a ther-mal, a rain poncho and hat, socks, a good 
pair of shoes and a ﬂ  eece.
“And always, always, journals and pens,” 
he said.
He wrote during the entire process; the 
book is a compilation of all 12 years. The 
genre, he said, is creative non-ﬁ  ction narra-tive travel. And as for the 14 essays, he said, “I felt they ﬁ  t together to create a cohesive journey.”
There’s another aspect to his writing, 
however. A CD, titled “Wandering,” can be purchased with the book, a collection of in-strumental songs by Matthew Tavis Johnson. 
Only one song on the CD has lyrics, and Kai-
da read over the music when the two did a 10-day tour.
He emphasized the interpersonal relation-
ships he formed with people he met. Even the marginalized, the seemingly outcast from society, those were the ones he learned from and connected with. He said he hopes his readers gain a different kind of perspective 
on how place of location can create subcul-
tures, and how these can make people feel connected or alienated.
Kaida began his journey alone, without 
his family’s blessing. He said it was difﬁ  cult 
for them to understand what he was doing, 
but he said he liked being away from home.
It’s been ﬁ  ve years since he settled down, 
though Kaida politely declined to comment 
on his current relationship status.
“There’s a time for everything,” he said. 
He said he wanted to try something different 
after so long, which for him would be to set-tle down. So now, he gardens a lot, he said.
He still travels, though. And now, he said 
he can get his focus more on getting his work published.
Kaida is one of more than 12 authors and 
speakers who has come to speak at the li-brary district this year. Joyce West, the public services administrator for the Alachua Coun-ty Library District, said bringing in a speaker can cost virtually nothing to $3,500, depend-
ing on both who the speaker is and if Friends 
of the Library helps with sponsorships. Kaida will be paid for speaking Saturday, but the exact amount is unknown.
Nickie Kortus, the marketing and public 
relations manager for ACLD, said 25 to 300 people can show up for a speaker or author, depending on who comes to the city.
“You have the opportunity to meet and 
talk and have your own questions answered by these authors,” she said, which is why these events are so exciting.
She said Kaida will be in a smaller room, 
which is more of an intimate setting with his audience. They will have the opportunity to have one-on-one conversations with him and buy a book or CD. His own publisher will provide them, where usually Books-A-
Million partners with the library to provide 
the books.
“I would never change anything about my 
journey or about my life,” Kaida said. “I think 
it was perfect for me. It taught me everything 
that I needed to know.” Nomadic author returns to GNV to share story, sign books 
MUSIC
IT IS A MUSICAL
WITHIN A MUSICAL.
By T aylor Maloney
Avenue Writer
A musical within a musical, the 
University of Florida’s fall produc-
tion of “The Drowsy Chaperone” breaks the fourth wall in a comedic fashion.
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance’s Fall showing of the musical will premiere at 7:30 p.m. Friday at the Constans Theatre.
The production tells the story of a 
man obsessed with musicals imagin-ing a show he’s never seen. As the narrator listens to the musical in his apartment, the characters come to 
life before his eyes.
“We really have a relationship 
with the audience in this show,” said 
Tony Mata, head of musical theatre at UF and director of “The Drowsy Chaperone.”
Mata ﬁ  rst became interested in 
the musical during a summer spent in New York. Mata and his friends 
won a ticket lottery for a showing 
and fell in love with the charm.
“When that show started, we 
were just delighted,” he said.
Mata said the great script and 
catchy tune make it a show that ev-erybody can do. The musical is rath-er young, ﬁ  rst premiering in Toronto in 1998 and debuting on Broadway 
in 2006. But Mata stills plans to put 
his own twist on it.
“I never really like to do produc-
tions the way they’ve been done be-fore,” he said.
The musical has been in the 
works since last year and will dis-play an art deco set, a live orchestra and a script with a bite, Mata said.
“It’s a very big village when you 
put a musical together,” he said.The musical will showcase actors 
and actresses from diverse back-grounds. Some are freshmen at UF, others are professionals. Everybody has an integral part.“I’m just the captain who mans 
the ship,” Mata said.
One of the most important roles is 
that of the stage manager, Mata said.
“After opening night, the stage 
manager runs the show,” he said.
Matthew Henao, a 20-year-old 
UF theatre junior, takes on the stage manager title. He is in charge of fa-cilitating rehearsals and maintaining the integrity and vision of the design-ers and director during the show.
“I’m like the invisible hand that 
moves all the parts,” Henao said.
Henao has been behind the stage 
from a young age.
“It started in high school. I stage 
managed for a children’s theatre,” he said.
He originally entered UF as an en-
gineering student, but made the de-cision to change his major to theatre.
“I am so glad I made that switch,” 
he said.
Henao said one challenge to his 
job is making sure everything runs smoothly. He needs to precisely call cues and time the production.
 “My artistic input in this pro-
duction is the smooth transitions throughout the entire show,” he 
said.  
With show rehearsals lasting 
from about 6:30 to 11 p.m, a struggle 
for an undergraduate like Henao is managing classes while being part of the show.
The show is in a better place if his 
life is organized, he said.
Jeff Drushal lies on the other end 
of the spectrum of students perform-ing in the musical. The 42-year-old graduate student in the UF Master of Fine Arts program just ﬁ  nished over 400 performances of Broadway’s “Mamma Mia!” around the U.S.
“I’m deﬁ  nitely one of the old men 
in the department,” he said.
Drushal plays Feldzieg in “The 
Drowsy Chaperone.” Feldzieg is the antagonist in the musical.
“You got to like him. I’ve always 
loved my bad guys,” Drushal said.
He said one of the challenges to 
being involved in the production was playing such a broad character. However, he’s used to playing the bad guy.
“If there’s an antagonist in the 
show, I’m probably it,” he said.
Drushal got involved in theatre 
during his senior year of high school when he played Tony in “West Side Story.” He took a break from his pro-fessional career to complete an MFA at UF. The program has helped him take his craft to the next level, he 
said.
Drushal said one of the best parts 
of the program is bonding with ev-
eryone. He helps younger students studying theatre by sharing his expe-riences with them. He helps students wrap their minds around life after school.
“I can sort of bridge the gap be-
tween the school setting and the pro-fessional setting,” he said.
Drushal is used to being a re-
placement, so it was a unique expe-rience to be part of something from day one. He was able to be set free from usual approaches to create something for the audience. He said there was a lot of joy and excitement 
in having a part in the production.
“At the very least, we’re enjoying 
the heck out of what we’re doing,” 
he said. UF musical ‘The Drowsy Chaperone’ to premiere on Friday
Courtesy to the Alligator
The UF School of Theatre and Dance will premiere its fall 
musical, “The Drowsy Chaperone, ” at 7:30 p.m. on Friday.
“I would never change anything about 
my journey or about my life. I think 
it was perfect for me. It taught me 
everything that I needed to know.”
Jake Kaida
authorTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
WANTED: Serious student for peace & 
quiet. Private 1BR, unfurnished, garage apt in town, NW Gainesville. $525/mo. Call 376-6294    10-19-5-2
MUST SEE-3/2 house minutes from UF and Shands.Beautiful inside - upgraded kitchen with granite and stainless steel appliances, large fenced in back yard. $1400. 727-512-2468. Available immediately.    10-20-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-16-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an
after school program at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed.
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
10-16-15-5-14
Girls Place is Your First Place to Make a Difference! Now hiring CDL drivers, af-ter school counselors and tutors. Visit GirlsPlace.net for details. @girlsplaceinc    10-21-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
 
 
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's men's and women's 
swimming and diving teams will continue their road slate this weekend against T exas and Indiana. Read the story on pg. 20. THE GATORS ARE 
PREPARING TO GANG 
TACKLE LEONARD 
FOURNETTE. 
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Big. Powerful. Quick.
Those are all superlatives that 
Florida linebackers coach Randy 
Shannon bestowed upon LSU 
running back Leonard Fournette on Wednesday morning.
But despite all of the sopho-
more’s qualities, Shannon be-lieves the Heisman Trophy front-runner’s greatest strength is the reinforcements he has behind him.
“What makes Fournette re-
ally, really special is that he has other guys that alternate in the backfield,” Shannon said. “He’s 
not carrying the load all the time. 
That makes him special.”
Those guys would be fresh-
man Derrius Guice and sopho-more Darrel Williams, both of 
whom are providing Fournette 
with extra rest while not allow-ing the running game to drop off in production without him on the 
field.
Guice has rushed for 263 
yards this season and is averag-
ing a staggering 9.1 yards per carry, although 161 yards of that 
came against South Carolina last 
week.
Williams has been more con-
sistent, rushing for 251 yards 
while averaging 5.7 yards per 
carry.
For backups, those are im-pressive numbers, and it doesn’t 
allow an opposing defense to 
ever get a break from the ground-and-pound onslaught.
“They’re all the same,” Shan-
non said. “They’re all big guys. 
They’re all 6-feet, 6-foot-1 guys 
that are 230, 235 with a lot of speed and explosive. They’re home run hitters.”
But none is as dangerous as 
Fournette, a human bowling ball who simply refuses to go down without carrying multiple de-
fenders on his back.
And that’s what Florida’s 
strategy is — get as many guys 
on his back as possible.
“That’s all you can do,” Shan-
non said. “You’ve got to gang tackle, get five, six guys to the football and wrap up and grab cloth.”
Florida’s defenders believe 
the sophomore is the best back in the country, with some even saying he will definitely win the 
Heisman this season. 
They know what type of chal-
lenge awaits them.
The Gators were taught a les-
son in missing one-on-one tack-les against Tennessee’s Jalen 
Hurd, who rushed for 102 yards and, at times, made Florida de-fenders look silly. 
A similar performance against 
Fournette likely wouldn’t be 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
McGee, Goolsby named to awards watchlist
Sophomore DeAndre Goolsby and redshirt senior Jake McGee were 
selected to the John Mackey Award Midseason Watch List, given to the most outstanding tight end in college football. The pair are two of the five SEC tight ends with 130+ receiving yards and a touchdown this season. AP Photo
LSU running back Leonard Fournette is pushed out of bounds by South Carolina safety D.J. Smith 
during the first half of LSU's 45-24 win over the Gamecocks on Saturday. 
Florida linebackers coach praises LSU backfield 
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
With four games remaining in the regu-
lar season and the Southeastern Confer-
ence tournament on the horizon, Florida 
soccer midfielder Pamela Begic had a deci-
sion to make.
The junior from Semič , Slovenia, could 
either stay with her collegiate team or 
travel to play for her native country in two matches as part of the qualifying group 
stage for the 2017 UEFA Women’s EURO 
tournament on Oct. 19 and Oct. 26.
Begic has appeared in nine games for 
the Gators this season and said that she 
will pass on the opportunity to play in Eu-
rope this month.
“I decided it’s better for me to stay here 
just because it’s really hard to travel that 
far and SEC’s coming to an end,” Begic said. 
“The SEC tournament’s coming up so I think it’s better for me to stay here.”
On Sept. 22 Begic played for Slovenia 
against Scotland, a game that ended in a 3-0 loss for Begic and her teammates.
Begic took one of the team’s eight shots 
in the 19th minute of the loss.Begic said travelling that distance to im-
mediately come back and travel again for an SEC game was the hardest part for her.
“It is really hard to leave in the middle 
of the season when you’re playing with one team and then you leave to go play with another team,” Begic said.
“Coming back and forth is kind of ridic-
ulous. I came back Wednesday night and 
left on Thursday morning to travel again, 
on a plane, and it was hard.”
Begic has provided coach Becky Bur-
leigh and the No. 13 Gators with some Midfielder to skip UEFA qualifying games to play with UF VOLLEYBALL
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
Any talk of the Gators dropping 
off has seemingly been quelled. 
The rest of the Southeastern 
Conference needs to take notice. 
Florida’s volleyball team ripped 
through Rocky Top on Wednes-day night, defeating Tennessee in 
straight sets, 25-19, 25-11, 25-23. 
Since losing three straight con-
ference games a 
week-and-a-half ago, the No. 17 
Gators (12-4, 4-3 
SEC) have swept 
their last three contests.  
The teams 
traded points in the early going as 
they were even at 16 apiece half-way through the first set. 
But the Gators pulled away, go-
ing on a 9-3 run to ice the first set, steal momentum and take a 1-0 lead. 
The Gators opened the second 
set on a 7-1 tear and never looked back, winning easily 25-11. Gators 
sweep Tennessee on road 
SOCCER, PAGE 19SEE SHANNON,  PAGE 19 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 19
Four SEC games remain 
“It is really hard to leave in the middle 
of the season when you’re playing with 
one team and then you leave to go play 
with another team.”
 Pamela Begic
UF soccer midfielderWise
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
It’s October, which means it’s 
playoff baseball time.
It’s a period in which the stakes 
are highest. Led by their coaches, 
teams are going to war with 25-
man rosters full of players that are 
expected to be great.
Three former Gators — two 
players and one coach — are still standing, as ﬁ  ve teams remain in the hunt.
Preston Tucker — Hous-
ton Astros: Tucker’s and the 
Astros’ run in the playoffs came to an end on Wednesday night with a 7-2 loss to the Kansas City Royals in Game 5 of the American League 
Division Series. 
Tucker, 25, played sparingly 
this postseason.
Down 9-6 with one out in the 
ninth inning of Monday’s Game 4 
against the Royals, Tucker pinch hit for outﬁ  elder Jake Marisnick. 
The lefty would ultimately 
strike out looking, and an out later 
sealed the loss and sent the series 
to Game 5.
In Game 2 of the series Friday, 
Tucker was thrown into a similar position.
The rookie worked the count 
full before earning a walk down 5-4 with one out in the ninth inning off Wade Davis, one of the league’s 
best relief pitchers this season.
Tucker came on as a pinch hit-
ter in the ninth inning of Game 5, 
but struck out swinging for the ﬁ  rst out. 
David Ross — Chicago 
Cubs:  Ross and the Chicago Cubs 
might still be celebrating Tuesday’s win over their division nemesis St. Louis Cardinals.
The win marked the ﬁ  rst time in franchise history that Chicago 
clinched a playoff series at Wrigley 
Field.
Though Ross wasn’t a part of 
the game that made history, he did play a role in the ﬁ  rst game of the series on Friday.
Ross got the nod to start game 
one behind the plate with pitcher Jon Lester on the mound. 
Ross, a backup catcher, is 
known as Lester’s personal catcher because of their time together dur-ing the Red Sox 2013 World Series championship.
The 38-year-old was hitless in 
two at-bats in his lone start of the postseason.
With Ross catching, Lester sur-
rendered three earned runs through 7.1 innings. 
The Cubs gave up one more run 
in the game but couldn’t provide an ounce of run support in what would be Chicago’s sole series loss.
Dave Eiland — Kansas 
City Royals: As the Royals pitch-
ing coach, Dave Eiland has been instrumental in guiding the pitch-ing staff during the regular season and the playoffs.
Eiland, who was a Gator for just 
one season in 1985 before transfer-ring to South Florida, has a chance to help coach Kansas City back to the World Series.Royals fans can thank Eiland 
for the success of their relief pitch-ers, who lead the American League with a 2.72 ERA during the regular season.
With the Royals advancing to 
the American League Champion-
ship Series, Eiland and the Royals 
will look to continue their postsea-son run when the team faces the Toronto Blue Jays. 18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
AP Photo
St. Louis Cardinals’ Stephen Piscotty (55) slides safely past Chicago Cubs catcher David Ross during the ﬁ  rst inning of Game 1 in baseball’s 
National League Division Series on Friday in St. Louis, Missouri. 
GATORS IN MLB
Former Gators competing in Major League Baseball playoﬀ  s valuable minutes while she has been on the field, scoring 
two goals and assisting on one this season.
Burleigh said that Begic's decision to stay comes at a 
good time for the midfielder.
“I think that Pam’s gaining some momentum right now 
and I would hate for that to be broken by her being gone,” Burleigh said. 
“We always would support her if she wanted to go, but 
I’m excited that she’s staying.”
The Gators have four games left this year against SEC 
opponents — Mississippi State, South Carolina, Arkan-sas and Georgia — before the SEC Tournament in Orange 
Beach, Alabama on Nov. 2-8. 
Begic had made an impact in the most recent game she 
played in for the Gators on Sunday against LSU putting her 
only shot on frame and opening up the passing lanes in the 
final third of the field.
“With her experience, one of the things that American 
players struggle with the most is the final ball and that’s 
the thing attracted us to her the most in the recruiting 
process ... her ability to play the final ball,” Burleigh said.
“You saw that on Sunday, she provided some great 
balls that were near assists. They were just balls that were 
really dangerous, breaking the back line.” 
Burleigh said Begic sent a recruiting video to the school 
and that's how the international player came up on Flor-
ida's radar. 
Last year, Begic was a two-sport athlete playing soc-
cer in the Fall and then transitioning to basketball in the 
Winter and Spring. 
Begic tallied two goals and four assists in 22 games for 
the Gators in 2014. 
She said the switch to only one sport has improved her 
focus on and off the field.
“It’s definitely different,” Begic said.“I only get to focus on one thing and it definitely gives 
me a lot more time to just focus on soccer, or like even school, or my life. It’s a lot easier to chase one rabbit than two.”THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Pamela Begic looks to pass during Florida's 2-1 
win against LSU on Sunday at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
SOCCER,  from pg17Begic had two goals and four assists in 2014
something they could overcome.
“We had an eye-opener against Tennes-
see,” linebacker Jarrad Davis said. “We 
missed a lot of tackles that game, so we 
know what we need to do facing a back like this.”
“We’ve got to do it as a group, too, be-
cause this is a huge guy.”
Davis will be one of the players tasked 
with stopping Fournette just as he’s break-ing past the line of scrimmage — in other words, just when he’s beginning to get a 
full head of steam.
But if comparisons translate to per-
formance, the junior linebacker might be 
ready for the LSU running back.
Shannon had some high praise for Da-
vis on Wednesday, comparing him to NFL Pro-Bowler and former Miami Hurricane linebacker Jonathan Vilma, whom Shan-non coached while the team’s defensive 
coordinator.
“Large build, same body frame,” Shan-
non said of Davis. “He’s a little bit taller 
than Vilma, but same mind set, smart. 
Very aggressive. Very powerful when he 
hits. Very powerful young man.
“Vilma was a guy who likes to chal-
lenge and that’s the same with Jarrad. He’s a challenging guy and he thinks that he can 
beat anybody at anything at any time.”SHANNON,  from pg17Fournette leads 
the country in 
rushing with 
1,022 yards The third set played out much 
like the first, with the teams trad-
ing leads throughout the match. 
Florida again found a way to seal 
the deal when it mattered, skating past Tennessee 25-23 to complete the sweep. 
The Gators continued their effi-
cient hitting by posting a .347 per-centage as a team. Florida hit more than .300 for its third consecutive game. In their last three games, the 
Gators are hitting an impressive 
.397. 
Florida received forceful pro-
duction from its middle blockers 
throughout the match. 
Sophomore Rhamat Alhassan 
amassed a game-high 13 kills and 
four blocks on a .429 hitting clip, while senior Simone Antwi had 
eight kills. 
Although the Gators offensive 
attack was steady all night, it was 
their defensive dominance that 
gave Tennessee fits. 
Florida held the Volunteers to a 
dismal .095 hitting percentage, the 
fourth SEC team this season that it has held under a .200 hitting clip. Florida also had 10 players re-
cord a dig. Senior libero Nikki O’Rourke racked up a game-high 14 for the match. 
Up 2-0 on the road versus an 
SEC opponent has been a familiar place for the Gators this season. 
They built a similar lead two 
weeks ago against Missouri, only to see the Tigers rally to beat them in five sets. 
But this team is different from 
the one that collapsed against the Tigers. 
It has learned from that painful 
experience to never let up its inten-sity. 
So when the Volunteers came 
out strong in the final set, the Gators didn’t panic. 
Trailing by four points at the end 
of the third set, it would have been easy to let up and fall back on the guarantee of still leading heading into a fourth set. 
Instead, Florida downed Ten-
nessee with another 7-1 run and left Knoxville with a hard-earned conference victory. 
“Lots of good really good things 
both from an offensive standpoint and a defensive standpoint,” coach Mary Wise said in a release.
“To win 3-0 on the road in this 
league is a testament to our play 
tonight.” 
Florida will look to continue 
its SEC winning streak when the 
Gators hit the road on Sunday to 
take on the Kentucky Wildcats at 1 
p.m. on SEC Network in Lexington, Kentucky. VOLLEYBALL,  from pg17UF has won three-straight Southeastern Conference games 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
UF middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan swings for a kill attempt during Florida's 3-1 win against 
Florida State on Sept. 20 in the O'Connell Center. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
SWIMMING AND DIVING
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@Lstaff27
For the second consecutive week, both 
the UF men’s and women’s swimming and 
diving teams will be on the road competing in a dual-competition. 
Both squads are coming off solid per-
formances, with the No. 1 men’s team securing a 174.50 to 125.50 victory over Missouri, which was its first taste of South-eastern Conference competition this sea-son.  The No. 5 women’s team routed the Vanderbilt Commodores with a 193-69 vic-tory on Thursday, and ended its meet with 
Missouri in a 150-150 tie Saturday morn-
ing. 
This weekend the Gators will travel to 
Austin, Texas to take on both the Univer-sity of Texas and Indiana University.
With two meets for the men and three 
meets for the women now under their belts, coach Gregg Troy is pleased with the strides his younger swimmers have made 
on both teams.
“On the women’s side we had a sopho-
more breaststroker Paige Scheriger who has really come around,” Troy said. 
“She did a great job in the 200. Han-
nah Burns, one of the freshmen, she’s a 
very good medley swimmer. ... We still have some improvement to do in the breaststroke but those two girls have really helped us out.” 
Troy was also pleased with the perfor-
mance of freshman Mollie Pulte in all of the relays, even though she was getting worn out from the high level of competi-
tion.
Another freshman contributing early is 
Samuel Smith. He was named SEC Diver of the Week 
for his first place finish in the one-meter board competition at the Missouri meet 
that also earned him a NCAA-qualifying standard.
This week, the team will finish the last 
week of its current training cycle. 
Troy will be focusing on improving both 
teams’ performances around the walls, which he believed looked sloppy this past weekend.
Competition for the Gators starts Friday 
at Texas’ Jamail Swim Center at 4 p.m. Competition will continue into Saturday.UF continues road trip, prepares to face Texas and Indiana