We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 137 MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
UF Spring football game shows 
potential, problems
The starting quarterback job is still up for 
grabs, pg 13
Student wins prom giveaway from UF 
student, alumna
She goes to Eastside High School, pg 8.
A reluctant getting-ready for Hillary
Read our editorial, pg 6.UF alum’s documentary premieresat 2015 Florida Film Festival
It will appear at nine ﬁ  lm festivals this month 
after debuting at Sundance, pg 4.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
May Niu, a 21-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering junior, poses for a 
photo between the Beaty T owers on Sunday. A member of the pilot class of the In-novation Academy, Niu did not run for president of the Chinese American Student Association because of eligibility restrictions as an IA student.
By Emily Cochrane and Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Jamaal Hill ﬁ  rst noticed a problem during 
Preview. 
As he advertised on behalf of UF’s Black Stu-
dent Union during Summer 2012, he noticed a common concern as the inaugural members of the Innovation Academy walked by.
How do we get involved, they asked, when 
we won’t be on campus until Spring?
This is a question that resounds through the 
halls of Beaty Towers, where many Innovation Academy students live. IA has presented stu-dents with a new minor, a new Spring-Summer academic calendar and new opportunities for the past three years. However, following the pi-lot program is a string of kinks that require at-tention, including the challenge some students have faced with on-campus involvement. 
“A lot of large organizations on campus do 
a majority of their recruitment in the fall,” said Hill, who is now a 22-year-old English senior graduating in May. “It kind of makes it more difﬁ  cult to get involved in those organizations later on.”
For BSU and other organizations, recruit-ment occurs in the Fall, which Hill saw as an 
obstacle for students in the new degree pro-
gram. 
He took his concern to the executive board 
of his organization, and they created the Inno-vation Leadership Program, modeled after an 
already-existing BSU freshman subgroup but 
solely for IA students.  
Applications opened that April, and the ﬁ  rst 
ILP class was born.  
“We wanted to do a lot to get them not only 
different forms of leadership and get them accli-mated to campus,” Hill said, “but we wanted to 
make sure that we catered to the speciﬁ  c needs 
of the Innovation Academy student as well as 
kind of getting the chance to expose themselves 
to other large organizations but expose other 
large organizations on campus to Innovation 
Academy students.”
It became a 12-week program organized by 
traditional UF students that offered opportuni-ties to bond with IA students and connect with 
other organizations. After the ﬁ  rst class, Hill, 
who served as a director, said he saw his stu-
dents go on to become involved across campus.
But involvement in organizations outside 
ILP comes with its own confusion. Inside Innovation Academy: campus involvement
CAMPUS
IT WAS OPENED BEFORE THE 
ORANGE & BLUE DEBUT.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
Albert and Alberta silently cheered by the 
weathered metal box decorated with a sparkly orange-and-blue bow.
The UF Class of 1995’s time capsule sat in 
the shade of the Orange and Blue Tailgate tent 
at Emerson Alumni Hall. A few fans gathered around the Gator-blue table it sat on, and other attendees chatted over tea and chardonnay.
At about 11 a.m. Saturday, UF 1995 alum-
nus Tony Medina announced the box would be opened for the ﬁ  rst time since it was sealed into the brick of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium in 1996.
The contents were unveiled with the help of 
alumni Bruce Floyd and Dan Clark. They said they didn’t know who created the capsule and weren’t involved with it themselves.
Among Gator egg candies, a commence-ment program and Gator memorabilia were newspapers: the Gainesville Sun, the Alligator and USA Today. While its plaque reads that it was installed in April 1996, the issue of the Sun in the capsule was dated Aug. 20, 1996.
“I expected to see some football schedules, 
that sort of thing,” said Medina, the president  UF Class of 1995 time capsule opened, alumni reminisce
SEE CAPSULE,  PAGE 9Innovation Academy admitted its ﬁ  rst class of 300 in 2012. The pilot 
program stemmed from a combination of ideas, said Bernard Mair, associate provost for undergraduate affairs, including the accommodation of students and the pursuit of innovation development goals.
Although UF is completely full in the Fall, Mair said, there was usually 
more room after December graduation. A discussion with Provost Joseph Glover came at a time of innovation development goals. They got approval from the Legislature to design a unique Spring-to-Summer concept rather than following the traditional Fall-to-Spring academic calendar. Each student would graduate with a minor in innovation after taking classes focused on creativity in entrepreneurship. 
The Alligator spoke with numerous students and UF ofﬁ  cials to explore the 
program’s identity and challenges as it reaches the middle of its third year.
SEE 
IA, PAGE 5Part 1 of 5Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 137
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  84° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GSCW is recruiting executive 
board members
The mission of Gators for Sickle 
Cell Warriors (GSCW) is to help 
the public become more aware of the impacts of sickle cell dis-ease and to push those affected to 
achieve more than they thought 
possible. Through social events, outreach and peer advising, we strive to create an educational yet welcoming and fun environment 
for all. Members do not need to 
be affected by sickle cell disease to join GSCW, but if you are or have been, this is an opportunity 
to support others, find a support 
system and stir a change in the Gainesville community. See the Facebook page for a link to the application. Questions? Contact 
us at scwarriorsuf@gmail.com.
Film screening at Pride 
Community Center
Join the Alachua County Labor Coalition and Pride Community Center of North Central Florida for a showing of the 2014 film 
“Pride” about the 1984 UK 
Miners Strike and the unlikely al-lies who rallied to show their sup-port for the union members. This 
hilarious film revolves around the 
misunderstandings between the two communities and ultimately their deep and lasting friend-ships. “Pride” won Best British Independent Film at the British Independent Film Awards. It will be shown today at 7 p.m. at Pride Community Center at 3131 NW 
13th St. For more information, go 
to on.fb.me/1ca7Am2.
Songwriters in the Round
Take a journey into Alachua County’s rich history with a pre-sentation by three members of Little Jake and the Soul Searchers at the Matheson History Museum 
on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Little 
Jake Mitchell performed at the Apollo Theater and toured with James Brown. B.B. King encour-
aged him to stay in show busi-
ness. For over 35 years, Charlie Steadham booked thousands of shows featuring a diverse array of artists. Tran Whitley was one 
of the first local musicians to join 
the modern trend of music files reinforcing live performances. They will discuss the invention 
and reinvention of the Gainesville 
music scene. For more informa-tion, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmuseum.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
A story published Friday under the headline "Saving Bert" in-correctly stated that Van Truong 
was in Indianapolis for the NCAA 
championship game. It should have stated that Truong was watching the game on television.
A story published on Friday, 
under the headline “UF Sustainability hosts events to cel-ebrate Earth Month” incorrectly 
stated that ideally, 10 percent of 
UF’s vehicles would run on solar power in the next five to 10 years. It should have said that the goal 
is to have electric vehicles make 
up 10 percent of UF’s fleet within five-to-10 years. In addition, the article stated that eight awards were presented. However, it 
should have stated that 20 
awards were presented under eight categories. Additionally, the sentence stating the next event 
would be April 22 was from an 
outdated webpage.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,  
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
CAMPUS
By Paige Levin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Following reports of on-campus assaults this 
Fall, some UF students have moved from tradi-
tional campus safety methods, like blue lights, to more modern resources.
Jesse Pagan, a UF telecommunication senior, 
said he remembers learning about blue lights during preview. He has never used one, but he said he wouldn’t hesitate to.
“I thought it was pretty cool that you pick up 
the phone, and they know exactly where you are, but it’s weird to think that in four years I’ve never 
heard of anyone using it,” the 22-year-old said.  
He said he and other students are less likely 
to use the blue lights because it is easier to use 
a cell phone.
“What happens when you get to the post and 
call?” he said. “You’re still there and vulnerable.”
Capt. Jeff Holcomb of the University Police 
said an online map highlights the more than 335 blue lights on campus, several of which were 
added this semester to accompany new build-
ings.The phones provide direct communication 
with UPD and are intended for students to report crime, ﬁ  re, medical emergencies or request a po-lice escort. Once a call is made, a strobe light is activated to increase visibility.
Holcomb said they’re typically placed near en-
trances to buildings or parking lots.
“We continue to add blue phones to campus 
as new buildings are added to the campus facil-ity,” he said. “But no, there’s no big push to in-crease them just because.”
Alex Rivera, a 21-year-old UF telecommuni-
cation senior, said she relies on TapShield, the mobile version of the blue light, to keep her safe.
“You have the light literally in the palm of 
your hand now,” Rivera said.
If students are worried, she said, they could 
easily send a text or call the police as opposed to looking for a blue light.
Due to the reports in Fall, the UF physical 
plant division made an effort to cut back heavy landscaping to improve visibility.
Holcomb said there has been a decrease in 
crimes that required a campus alert over the past few months.Students likely use phones in 
emergencies, not blue lightsBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ann Christiano is feeling the love from 
her students.
Christiano, a public relations professor, 
is UF’s 2014-15 Teacher of the Year.
The Frank and Betsy Karel Endowed 
Chair in Public Interest 
Communications ap-plied for the award at the College of Journal-
ism and Communica-tions and, upon being 
selected, was evaluated 
against nominees from UF’s other colleges. Part of the process included 
recommendations from students.
“It was wonderful,” Christiano said. 
“Even if I hadn’t won, the letters that my students wrote — that was enough.”
UF professors Mike Foley and Norman 
Lewis, both of the College of Journalism and Communications, were among the ﬁ  rst colleagues she shared the news with when she found out a few weeks ago.
She said she didn’t know how to teach 
when she ﬁ  rst came to UF, and they gave her a lot of guidance.Lewis said Christiano is a gifted and 
natural teacher on her own.
“There’s probably nobody who brings 
more passion and compassion to the job,” Lewis said. “To share that moment with her was very remarkable.”
Christiano also started the frank gather-
ing. The annual conference, held the last two years, aims to bring speakers and par-ticipants together to talk about public inter-est communications. About 200 students participated this year, Christiano said.
While Lewis said Christiano has many 
students who help her, it is she who in-spires them.
Lauren Maloney, a 19-year-old UF pub-
lic relations sophomore, said Christiano is the teacher most deserving of the award.
“She’s deﬁ  nitely someone that con-
nects other people to promote the greater good,” Maloney said. 
UF President Kent Fuchs presented 
Christiano with her award April 6 at UF’s annual Faculty Awards. Christiano said the presentation was moving.
“When you come here and you walk 
into the classroom, all you have is who you are, and that’s really humbling,” Christia-no said. “But if you’re willing to let that show, I think the students appreciate it.”  UF names teacher of year
Christiano
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015By Molly Donovan
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF alumnus Michael Beach Nich-
ols traded medical school for film-
making.
Nichols, 35, went to Amherst Col-
lege in Massachusetts as an Ameri-can studies major from 1998 to 2002. He planned to go to medical school, 
but upon graduation he decided to 
make movies.
In 2007, Nichols began his docu-
mentary filmmaking career at UF 
where he did a two-year master’s program.
In 2009, Nichols moved to Brook-
lyn and created his first original 
piece, “Flex Is Kings.”
“I had no background other than 
the fact that I liked movies,” Nichols said.
Now, Nichols and his friend 
Christopher K. Walker own No 
Weather Productions and have 
a documentary making its way 
through the country’s film festivals.
In August 2013, the two read 
a New York Times article about a white supremacist, Craig Cobb, who 
moved to a town of 24 people in 
North Dakota with the intention of taking over the local government.
A month later, another article 
came out about a supremacist family that moved there to help Cobb. 
“We were interested in the first 
story, but we didn’t think it would stick,”  Nichols said. “When we read the second article, we realized it had momentum.”
Nichols and Walker called the 
mayor of Leith, North Dakota, and asked for permission to film the sto-ry of the attempted takeover. They 
went up three times in 2013 to film 
the battle between farmers and Ary-an supremacists in the rural town.
The film, titled “Welcome to 
Leith,” made its first festival appear-
ance in January at the Sundance 
Film Festival and will appear in nine festivals this month, Nichols said.
It made its debut on the east coast 
at the 2015 Florida Film Festival in Maitland, Florida, on Saturday, and will have a second showing Tues-day. Individual tickets are $11 after 5 p.m. and $9 before 5 p.m.
Nicole Fasano, a nursing junior 
at the University of Central Florida, said she thinks films like “Welcome to Leith” are important for college 
students to watch.“For a lot of people, they hear 
about things going on in the world, 
but it doesn’t faze them,” Fasano, 20, said. “When you can visualize something happening in the world, it’s something you carry with you and remember. Movies are probably the best way to inspire people to be involved or make a change.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Nichols (left), a UF alumnus and filmmaker, operates a camera while his friend and partner, 
Christopher Walker, does the same. Their latest film, titled “Welcome to Leith, ” made its east coast debut at the 2015 Florida Film Festival on Saturday.
ALUMNI
UF alum’s documentary premieres at 2015 FL Film FestivalBy Jaclyn Scott
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tuesday is the last day to vote in the City of 
Gainesville runoff election.
Incumbent Commissioner Yvonne Hinson-
Rawls is running against Charles Edward Gos-ton Sr. for the District 1 seat, while Harvey 
Budd is running against Jay Curtis for the At-Large seat.
On election day, more than 30 precincts in 
Gainesville will be open from 7 a.m. until 7 p.m.
With a 12.5 percent turnout rate from the regular election on March 17, Supervisor of Elections Pam Carpenter said she is expecting about 10 to 17 percent of the 74,884 eligible voters to participate.
“What we’ve seen in the past is that runoffs 
generate more interest,” she said.
Unless candidates are tackling big issues, 
Carpenter said city elections generally produce lower turnout rates, which makes sense to one 
UF student.“I didn’t know there was even an election 
going on until two days ago,” said Briana Wa-
lin, a UF history and political science senior.
Walin, 21, said she wouldn’t vote in this 
election because of the lack of knowledge she has about the candidates.
There are three polling locations on UF’s 
campus: the Reitz Union, the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts and the Florida Mu-seum of Natural History.Tuesday last day to vote in runoffs for City Commission
To decide District 1, At-Large Any student is eligible to join a 
student organization, according to 
the Student Activities and Involve-ment handbook. But on closer ex-
amination, two obstacles arise for 
organization membership: Officers must be registered for classes dur-ing the semester they’re represent-ing their organization; and some organizations that require an ap-plication and/or review process to join only recruit members during Fall semesters. 
When it comes to officer eligibil-
ity, the activities and involvement handbook was altered to include IA students for general member-ship. 
However, the handbook reads, 
“If the student officer is actively representing the organization dur-ing a semester or term, the officer must be a registered student during that semester or term,” meaning that students can only serve as an officer during the semesters they are registered for UF classes.
For IA students, that means 
Spring and Summer. But most organizations have elections in Spring for terms that begin in Fall.  
May Niu, a UF industrial and 
systems engineering junior who 
was accepted into the first wave 
of IA students, said this became an issue when she wanted to run for president of the Chinese American 
Student Association for the 2015-
16 school year.
After looking at the handbook 
and speaking with advisers, she 
assumed she wasn’t eligible to run.
“It’s a great program, but there’s just a lot of limitations,” Niu, 21, said. “We are the guinea pigs.”
When it comes to organizations 
that only recruit in the Fall, such as some music groups, ambassador programs and honors societies, Di-rector of Innovation Academy Jeff Citty suggested IA students take online classes during Fall — their equivalent of Summer Break. 
“Students will work their sched-
ule to make it happen if they want to be a part of those organiza-
tions,” he said.  
Victoria Sperounes, an IA stu-
dent who started this semester, 
did just that after confusion about 
whether she could join a Panhel-
lenic sorority as an IA student. 
The psychology freshman took 15 credits online in Fall because she thought she would be ineligible to 
rush if she wasn’t a full-time stu-dent. 
While the Panhellenic Coun-
cil as a whole does not have any 
membership restrictions for IA stu-dents, each chapter is left to decide if and how they accept IA students, Panhellenic President Maria Carter said. 
“The only thing that the Pan-
hellenic Council requires through the compact (rulebook) is that you must be a degree-seeking student at the University of Florida to at-
tain recruitment,” Carter, 20, said. 
Now a member of Sigma Kappa, 
Sperounes, 19, said she was con-
fused at first but looked at it as get-
ting ahead in her schedule. In fact, 
she felt being an IA student helped 
her experience in the sorority.
“I feel like I was more involved,” 
she said. “I was more flexible to go 
to football games and socials at 
night because I didn’t have class in 
the morning.”
And some organizations — 
such as Cicerones, Preview Staff 
and Student Government — are 
willing to work to accommodate 
the IA schedule. 
In Student Senate, IA students 
now have representation via two 
senators. Hammaad Saber is one 
of them. 
At a Senate meeting April 7, 
Saber introduced a bill to allow IA 
senators to appoint a replacement 
senator for Fall terms, which he 
hoped would encourage more IA 
students to slate. It passed unani-mously. 
And for some students, the 
academy itself became their source of involvement and led to new op-portunities. 
David Nassau is often seen as 
the face of IA. He lives in Beaty Towers and attends most IA events. 
Nassau, a 20-year-old UF mar-
keting junior, is part of the original IA crew looking to move the pro-gram forward, he said. Back then, many students were unsure if they 
were able to even come to campus, 
he said. Nothing other than the Spring-to-Summer schedule was 
discussed, and the option to take online classes wasn’t mentioned.
He looked at Fall 2012 as a 
head start equivalent to traditional freshmen’s option to take Summer B classes. Nassau said no one he spoke to — including some faculty — knew what IA was, and he spent that semester explaining it in his own words. 
But, he said, “as it progressed, 
I felt more comfortable and confi-
dent. And personally, it gave me 
more of a voice that I had some-thing to say, rather than just being another freshman.”
He lived in a house off campus 
with people he had never met be-fore. He got to know Gainesville and found it to be an entrepreneur-ship gem.
“I was essentially riding the 
benefits of being one of the few IA students on campus in the Fall se-mester, which then helped me re-ally form a foundation to build off 
of for other things I got involved 
in,” Nassau said.
IA students’ Fall guidelines are 
completely different today than 
what was put in place almost 
three years ago, Nassau said, and 
that includes more opportunities 
for involvement, like Innovation Leadership Program, the group Hill started under Black Student Union. 
Nassau said he was excited to 
join the inaugural ILP class, which he said consisted of the major IA players of the time who are now involved around campus. 
“For me, ILP was one of the 
main things I did that introduced me to those involved people in and around campus,” he said.
Nassau said he’s noticed IA is 
becoming a larger part of UF’s cul-
ture. 
But sometimes, though not as 
frequently, he still has to explain it 
just as he did three years ago. 
Check back  tomorrow for part two: academics.MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
David Nassau, a 20-year-old marketing junior, poses for a photo in Beaty T owers on Sunday in front of shirts from different organizations he is involved in, which include Hopping 4 A Cure, Innovation Academy Ambassadors and the Florida Leadership Academy.
IA,  from pg 1Concerns around requirements for officer positions, recruitmentThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORA reluctant getting 
ready to get ready 
for Hillary
Are you ready for Hillary?
Don’t worry if you’re not sure … We’re not too sure 
if we are either.
On Sunday, Hillary Clinton announced her candi-
dacy via the most blindingly diverse campaign video 
we’ve yet seen. The announcement itself was a surprise to no 
one. Indeed, to us and many others in the media, it’s more of a relief than anything. Finally, we can talk about her campaign in definite terms rather than qualifying it at every turn with words like “prospective,” “likely” and “my God, just say it already.”
Clinton’s very likely to be a shoo-in for 2016’s Democratic 
candidate; meaning, should the country vote Democrat, we’ll get our first woman president. That possibility alone is a pow-
erful one in her favor. We, and millions of other Americans, 
are excited at the thought of voting for the first female presi-dent.
Of course, that’s not the only thing she’s got going for her. 
Clinton has served as a “first lady” at the state and the federal levels, as a U.S. senator and as secretary of state. During her husband’s presidency, she took on one of the most active first lady roles to date — and she’s been at work in Washington ever since.
As far as qualifications and experience, her career speaks 
for itself. The historic impact of her election alone, should she win, makes this one of the most significant campaigns in American history. But plenty remains about Clinton to be ap-prehensive about.
We’re not wild about the already-dynastic nature of the 
American presidency. Five of the last seven presidential terms have belonged to Bushes and Clintons; if she wins, someone from either family will have occupied the White House for 24 
of the 31 years from 1989 to 2020.
There’s that, as well as the admittedly sketchy vibe the 
Clintons tend to give off. There’s the Whitewater real estate 
controversy investigation from the ‘90s and the more recent email scandal. Plus, they give off the most Underwood-y vibe of all the top players in Washington today.
The final issue that worries us and other would-be enthusi-
astic supporters is the rigid, dogmatic attitude hardcore Clinton campaigners give off. There’s a definite ambience of “shut up, 
fall in line and vote for Hillary” that erupts whenever a whiff of 
discontent is detected on the left, which bothers us.
But, these things in mind, she remains the best choice avail-
able. It’s a liberal corollary to the Buckley Rule — go with the leftward-most viable candidate. Besides, a second Clinton is preferable to a third Bush; the Clintons don’t have a monopoly on sketchy stuff. 
But, the most important reason to back Clinton has to do 
with the Supreme Court: Four of its justices are pushing 80 and 
85. In other words, a bunch of the people who get to decide 
what the Constitution means are fixing to retire or croak dur-ing the next presidential term. That’s the biggest thing at stake here: Whoever’s elected in 2016 gets to pick the new justices and so determine the body of constitutional law for the ex-tent of those nominees’ lives. It makes a presidential decision have effects that could last decades instead of four or eight years. This could lead to something like, say, a repeal of Roe v. Wade. Reservations aside, we’d rather have Clinton pick those 
people than Sen. Ted Cruz.America needs tax reform, and we need it now
Tax Day is upon us, providing us another example of 
how overbearing and complicated our government truly is. April 15 is the deadline every year when every citizen must hesitantly file his or her taxes or face the wrath of the uncontrollable Internal Revenue 
Service. The tax code has become quite a monstrosity over the past few decades. It is riddled with all kinds of loopholes and deductions for corporations and wealthy people to take advantage of, leaving the middle class stuck with the bill.
Let’s first consider just how overly complicated that tax 
code is. The entire code is almost 4 million words; the en-tirety of the Harry Potter series is about 1 million words. You could read the entire Harry Potter series four times or read the entire tax code once. If you don’t think that’s insane, then 
you must also think we don’t have a problem. Within those 4 
million words, special interests and politicians have crafted a law so convoluted that we have special lawyers who use it to their advantage to get companies out of paying taxes.
Take Merck, the pharmaceutical giant, during the second 
quarter of 2014. They paid absolutely no taxes even as prof-its rose 52 percent, or about $2 billion. They actually had a negative-effective tax rate of 7.5 percent and got a tax credit from the government. While this move came about as a one-
time tax benefit because of financial proceedings the com-
pany took, it is still outrageous that a company that large — and from an industry that has a history of taking corporate welfare and profiting off sick people who have nowhere else to go — could get a net tax credit.
But it isn’t their fault. I blame no corporation for doing 
what they can to pay low taxes. The point of a business is to make a profit, so when there are rules that allow for less taxes, who wouldn’t take advantage? This point was made 
perfectly by Sen. Rand Paul during a 2013 Senate permanent 
subcommittee on investigations hearing about how Apple avoided paying billions in corporate income tax. While the government was, as Paul put it, “bullying, berating and bad-gering one of America’s greatest success stories,” Congress is to blame for creating a “Byzantine and bizarre tax code.”
Paul is completely right. Our tax code allows for Defer-
ral of Overseas Income, where a company doesn’t have to pay U.S. taxes on overseas profits until it is transferred back home. Addition-ally, an accounting gimmick known as “transfer pricing” allows corpora-tions to move profits from the U.S. to 
offshore tax havens and pay no taxes. 
A Government Accountability Office study in 2009 found that 83 of the top 100 publicly traded companies prac-tice this method, most notably General 
Electric, Google and Pfizer. This practice alone accounts for a loss of about $150 billion to the federal government each year. This isn’t the only accounting gimmick. There are hun-dreds more that end up costing the federal government hun-
dreds of billions of lost revenue each year.
We don’t have to continue to put up with a tax code that 
drains the middle class and forces companies to apply all 
these accounting gimmicks. It’s on us to focus our priorities and demand our representatives take tax reform seriously, and if they won’t do it, send them packing from the Capitol. Also, when I say tax reform, I don’t mean adding more rules to an already inflated tax code. I mean completely getting rid of the current tax code and putting something forth that is 
much simpler and fairer.
Why don’t we lower our corporate tax rate from 39 per-
cent — the highest in the developed world — to something 
more sustainable in the teens to attract business back to America? Why don’t we significantly lower the capital gains tax to near zero to invigorate investment in this country, es-pecially when so many studies suggest that when you lower the capital gains tax the government actually takes in more revenue? Why don’t we lower all tax brackets, or better yet 
have a flat tax to allow everyone to keep more money in their 
pockets and increase their disposable income? I urge every-one to do more research on tax reform because, while we are students, and most of us probably don’t pay that much in taxes, we will soon enough and would like this mess to be cleaned up. 
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political science senior. 
His column appears on Mondays.
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last weekend, my friend and I spent an awe-
some afternoon down at the Tidal Basin en-joying pre-Cherry Blossom Festival activities and the nice weather. We eventually made it over to the Jefferson Memorial and joined a 
tour given by one of the park rangers. The group was fairly small and mostly comprised of 14-year-old tourists wearing matching school shirts and ﬂ  ashy “Washington, D.C.” ﬂ  at-billed hats — *sigh* Oh, middle school.
The ranger who was giv-
ing the talk was great with the kids, very informative and interactive. He made a 
great speech about Jefferson, 
his life and facts surrounding the memorial itself.
When he ﬁ  nished his pre-
sentation, the ranger began asking the students a few simple American history triv-
ia questions, and to be quite honest I was shocked — embarrassed, even — at their lack of answers. 
These kids didn’t know anything!
Ranger: “Can you tell me who were some of 
the signers of the Declaration of Independence?” 
Kids: *silence*
Ranger: “Name some of our founding fathers!” Kids: *avoidance of eye contact*Ranger: “Can someone name one of the amend-
ments?” 
Kids: *uncomfortable squirming*
What?! You can’t tell me that an eighth grader 
has never heard of Benjamin Franklin or the right 
to bear arms.
Before writing this, I did a little follow-up on 
the decline of American history being taught in 
schools. 
A column on Townhall.com reads, that a re-
port showed that students anywhere from fourth 
grade to high school are lacking in their knowl-edge of American history. In results from the Na-tional Assessment of Education Progress in 2010, 13 percent of high school seniors, 18 percent of eighth graders and 22 percent of fourth graders showed proﬁ  ciency in their knowledge of Ameri-
can history.
What I ﬁ  nd to be even more ironic was that 
as these kids were standing at the memorial, 
the Jefferson Memorial, little did they know that Thomas Jefferson himself believed that being an educated citizen was essential to the preservation of the country.
American history is important! It’s our heri-
tage. It’s who we are, and we should be proud. 
Those kids should have been spouting out facts 
not slumping over from boredom. Something has to change.
Hallie Gardner writes for the Collegian Central. 
A version of this column originally appeared on UWire.Is American history 
even taught in US
schools nowadays?UWire
Society has transformed minimally when it 
comes to women’s rights. 
Women are more prominent in the work-
force, and sexual harassment is no longer 
tolerated in most institutions. However, these 
issues, among others, still exist in the battle for wom-en’s rights and gender equality. 
As if these issues were not enough to handle, 
women still face the societal pressures to maintain certain physical and mental characteristics.
Women are held to particular standards, expected to 
portray certain images and express lady-like behavior at all 
times. 
It may not be as obvious as it was in years past, but the 
pressure women feel to live up to society’s standards is still apparent. It’s just well-hidden.
We see these expectations presented in society through 
various platforms. 
Social media, advertisements, books and movies all factor 
into these expectations. 
These platforms act as conduct manuals for a woman’s 
subconscious. 
They tell us to be sexy but not too sexy, smart but not too 
smart, all while pursuing an education, career, relationship, family or all four.
They tell us how to be the “perfect woman,” these prodi-
gies and creations of society, things women crave to read, watch and listen. 
And, of course, women oblige because these platforms 
have been turned into societal norms. 
It’s kind of like women aspire to be told how to act be-cause of the way society presents us to the world in ads, books and movies and through the media.
This is where the failure of gender equality is 
noticeable: through the materialistic commodities society produces. 
No matter how beautiful, intelligent or success-
ful a woman is deemed to be, society still creates 
how-to maps for women to follow, and it’s not OK.
This issue was brought to my attention this 
weekend when I read an advice column in the 
April issue of Glamour magazine written by British comedian 
James Corden. 
The “advice” he gives is basically another how-to for 
women. 
Even though this so-called advice for American women 
(emphasis on American there) is relatable and motivating, it 
forced me to further question the standards women are ex-
pected to follow in today’s culture and why women succumb to any of it. 
Why should women be held to such extremes when men 
are not? And more importantly, why do women listen? 
Society is always going to pressure women to feel a certain 
way or better their physiques. 
It’s not a healthy lifestyle for women to live by, and it re-
ally is not improving gender equality. 
That is why we see little improvement or support be-
hind it, because of the edited images plastered on billboards around the country and the irresistible characters created for TV shows and books. 
It’s OK to admire such characters and participate in all 
society has to offer, but too many women are letting these norms pressure them into becoming the ideal woman that society wants them to conform to.
Women, myself included, need to stop relying on society 
to tell us how to become the “perfect woman” because in reality no one is perfect. 
Be who you want to be. Be who you think is your best self, and that will transform 
you into perfection since you ﬁ  gured it out on your own and 
not through the materialistic creations of society.
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Tuesdays. Women are too easily inﬂ  uenced by societal norms 
in their quest for perfection despite improvementsColumn
Hallie Gardner
UWireGrace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.org
“The ranger began asking 
the students a few simple 
American history trivia 
questions, and to be quite 
honest I was shocked — 
embarrassed, even — at their 
lack of answers. These kids 
didn’t know anything!"“ No matter how beautiful, 
intelligent or successful a woman 
is deemed to be, society still 
creates how-to maps for women 
to follow, and it’s not OK."
By Nicole Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
ngomez@alligator.org
A team of UF environmental 
engineering students is using the 
power of pee to save the planet.
Ph.D. students Avni Solanki, 
Stephanie Ishii and Kelly Landry, master’s student Daniella Saetta and undergraduate senior Mad-elyn Pandorf are developing a process to remove pharmaceuti-cal chemicals from urine so it can be used as a fertilizer.
This past weekend the team 
presented its project, titled “Feed the UriNation Using Contaminant-Free Fertilizer from Urine,” at the National Sustainable Design Expo in Alexandria, Virginia, in hopes of receiving a grant from the En-vironmental Protection Agency to continue their research.
The team received a $15,000 
grant last year as part of the EPA’s P3: People, Prosperity and the Planet sustainable design compe-tition. Other teams that also re-ceived the grant competed at the expo for an additional $75,000, Landry said. They will find out today if they 
won. 
Landry, 25, said urine is al-
ready used as a fertilizer, but us-ing charcoal to remove chemicals that could harm the environment is a new step in that process.
“Urine source separation is definitely a disruptive technol-ogy,” Ishii, 27, said. “You’re not just adding in an additional treat-
ment process, but literally chang-ing the whole system. We’re start-
ing all the way back at the toilet.”
Landry said the team per-
formed lab tests to perfect the 
process and analyzed existing data to determine the economic 
impact it could have in different 
societies.
Ishii said using urine to fertil-
ize crops would simplify waste-
water treatment. 
It could also provide a cheaper 
alternative to synthetic fertilizer in underdeveloped countries, Landry said.
“It could definitely improve 
their quality of life by providing their basic need of food,” Landry said.
Landry, Ishii and 25-year-old 
Solanki all said they are excited to present their project to the public.
Working on the project has 
made the team members aware of the value of their own urine, Ishii said.
“You know that feeling you get 
when you throw away a recycla-ble item in a trash can, like, ‘Oh, I shouldn’t have done that’?” she said. “We get that same feeling 
every single time we pee.”By Conor Soper
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lashayvia Searcy spent Friday night get-
ting dolled up for her junior prom, a night 
she almost missed out on.
Searcy’s mother lost her job around 
Christmastime last year. Searcy, 17, wasn’t 
sure if her mother had the money for every-
thing she needed for prom: the shoes, the jewelry, the makeup and the dress.
“I always wanted to look cute, and I 
wanted to show off,” Searcy said about wanting to attend prom.
But one UF alumna and one soon-to-be 
UF graduate were able to make Searcy’s dream come true.
Gabrielle Burch and Brooke Cantrell, 
both 23, helped organize a prom giveaway for one student at Eastside High School.
Burch’s grandmother used to do prom 
giveaways until she passed away last March, she said. Her passing is what in-spired the family, youth and community 
sciences graduate to continue the give-
aways.
“Why not do a good deed and give 
back?” Cantrell said.
An online form asked applicants about 
why they wanted to win, their financial hardship and their goals after high school.
It was the second year that Burch and 
Cantrell, a UF agricultural operations man-
agement senior, have done the giveaway, 
but this year’s giveaway, which included both juniors and seniors, was different.
Last year, they only did hair and make-
up, Burch said. But this year, they provided the dress, the jewelry, the shoes, the hair, the makeup, the purse and a stipend so Searcy can grab something to eat with her friends after prom.
The cost? About $475 and all out of 
pocket, Burch said.
At  5:30 p.m. Friday at the Campus 
Lodge apartment complex, Burch’s and Cantrell’s living room looked as if it were transformed into a miniature salon. Hair irons and makeup covered their counter.
Searcy’s twin, Shantayvia Searcy, 17, was at the makeover as well. The two 
cracked jokes and sang along to Nicki 
Minaj songs while Burch and Cantrell put Searcy’s hair into an updo for a look in-spired by the prom’s theme: “The Great Gatsby.”
With a final coat of pink lipstick, Searcy 
went into a bedroom for the finishing touch-es. She emerged a few minutes later in an all-black dress with lace shoulders and two 
diamond brooches. She carried a matching 
lace clutch and a glittery pink mask.
Downstairs, she posed for pictures as 
her mother, Alisa Mosley, arrived in her car. Her little sister, La’Jayla Mosley, 6, immediately jumped out. Her mother got out right after and snapped pictures of her daughter.8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
From left: Avni Solanki, 25, Kelly Landry, 25, and Stephanie Ishii, 27, all UF environmental engineering 
Ph.D. students, pose in a lab in the new engineering building next to urinals they use to test part of the process they developed to purify human urine so it can be used to fertilize crops. 
Conor Soper / Alligator 
Lashayvia Searcy, a 17-year-old Eastside High School junior, poses while her mother, Alisa Mosley, takes her photo. Searcy won a 
prom giveaway worth approximately $475 put on by a UF graduate and soon-to-be graduate.
Student wins prom giveaway from UF student, alumna
CAMPUS
UF students compete for grant to make fertilizer from pee“Why not do a good deed and give 
back?” 
Brooke Cantrell
UF seniorof the UF Association of His-
panic Alumni.
Although the sports pro-
grams were interesting, he 
said he particularly liked 
seeing what campus 
looked like almost 20 
years ago.
“I think seeing the cam-
pus maps has been really interest-
ing to see how the school has grown,” 
Medina said.
The school has changed since he got his 
bachelor’s degree in accounting in 1995, he 
added.
“As I walk around campus (today), 
there’s cranes on every corner,” he said.
Clark, who graduated in 1995 with a 
degree in telecommunication, had his own idea about what he wished came out of the 
capsule.
“They should’ve put a ﬂ  oppy disk in 
there,” he said.He said people don’t know what ﬂ  oppy 
disks are anymore. This is funny to him 
because the metal and plastic squares that were used to save ﬁ  les in the past are now on most word processors as the save button.
He said he did like that the capsule’s con-
tributors added some paper products that categorized the era.
“I think one of the funniest things is the 
drop/add bubble sheets,” he said.
The time capsule’s plaque was removed 
from the brick and placed in front of the capsule’s stage. It will no longer notify foot-
ball fanatics and students of the capsule’s 
existence.
Stephanie Pope, a UF animal sciences se-
nior, said she liked seeing the history inside the time capsule but thinks it would be dif-
ﬁ  cult to decide what to add to one today.
“We don’t have too many paper prod-
ucts,” the 24-year-old said.
Pope said she might add an iPhone or 
iconic sports poster to the box.
“It’s hard to think about (what you’d put 
inside) because you’re living in this time,” she said.  “Everything’s just there.” MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
T ony Medina (left), president of the UF Association of Hispanic Alumni, announces 
Saturday morning the contents of a time capsule buried in 1996 by the UF Class of 1995 along with classmates Bruce Floyd (far right) and Dan Clark.
CAPSULE,  from pg 1 No loppy disks, though
If we were to put together a time 
capsule today to open in the future, 
what would you put in?
 Mr. Nguyen @TheAsianDrPhil
@TheAlligator all our collective tears from  
      the Muschamp era of Florida football.
 Alex @alxndrwst
@TheAlligator Something expected to   
      change, and something expected to stay  
      the same. Maybe a cell phone, and a 
Converse shoe, respectively.
 eran @eranrae
@TheAlligator krishna spaghetti
 Andrew Cushen @CushenAndrew
@TheAlligator an unlocked iPhone with a charger
T ony Medina (left), president of the UF Association of Hispanic Alumni, announces 
Saturday morning the contents of a time capsule buried in 1996 by the UF Class of 
1995 along with classmates Bruce Floyd (far right) and Dan Clark.
T ony Medina (left), president of the UF Association of Hispanic Alumni, announces 
Saturday morning the contents of a time capsule buried in 1996 by the UF Class of 
1995 along with classmates Bruce Floyd (far right) and Dan Clark.
of the UF Association of His-
panic Alumni.
grams were interesting, he 
said he particularly liked 
pus maps has been really interest-
ing to see how the school has grown,” 
Medina said.
The school has changed since he got his 
bachelor’s degree in accounting in 1995, he 
added.
“As I walk around campus (today), 
there’s cranes on every corner,” he said.
Clark, who graduated in 1995 with a 
degree in telecommunication, had his own 
idea about what he wished came out of the 
capsule.
“They should’ve put a ﬂ  oppy disk in 
there,” he said.
CAPSULE,
 No loppy disks, though
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Above is a copy of The 
Independent Florida Alligator 
new student edition from Fall 1996. 
Below is a Gainesville Sun from August 
1996, a course catalog and a drop/add sheet, which 
students previously used to drop and add classes. All were 
found in the UF Class of 1995 time capsule, which was opened 
Saturday during a tailgate before UF football’s Orange & Blue Debut.

 Alex @alxndrwst
      change, and something expected to stay  
      the same. Maybe a cell phone, and a 

 eran @eranrae

 Andrew Cushen @CushenAndrew
 Mr. Nguyen @TheAsianDrPhil
      the Muschamp era of Florida football.

 Mr. Nguyen @TheAsianDrPhil
      the Muschamp era of Florida football.
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   4-14-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $4952BR Cottage $650
Small Pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Beautiful, spacious apt for rent @ 2nd Ave Centre. Sublease June-Aug for only $570/month. Personal bathroom. Convenient lo-cation. Shared kitchen & living room.berni.schor@gmail.com or 954-600-4967   4-15-5-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
$475/mo May 1st Furn'ed Pvt masterBR incl utils, WiFi, W/D, TV. Quiet w/ 3 males in UF Midtown, 13th/8th area easy Bus, Bike routes. ROOM@COX.NET / ph(352) 338-1113    4-13-5-4
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
REDUCED FOR QUICK SALE: 7825 NE 49th Terr 1200 sq ft 2/1 Block Home on acre of land with detached garage/carpot and well w/irrigation system. 10 minutes from airport and 20 minutes from UF $87,000 352-281-5874      4-14-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
AFFORDABLE, QUALITY scrubs and com-fortable clog footwear. Online at www.hospi-talscrubsplus.com or by phone/fax at 1-888-978-4781.      4-14-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-14
College Female needed as Tutor/Driver for 7-8th grader. Strong math, organiza -
tion. Dependable. MTWRF 3:15p to 7:00p, Periodic weekend/late eve hours. Call 352-514-8944.    4-13-15-5-14
Babysitter wanted for four kids ages 6-12, now through summer and into the fall. Help at home and taking kids to after school/camp activities. Experience required. Resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.     4-14-15-5-14SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Hiring for Summer
Apply Mon-Fri 9am-8pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10/hr + Incentive + Paid Training
Bilingual SPANISH Speakers Needed
http://www.bebr.ufl.edu/survey/hiring
4-17-15-6-14
Tech-savvy person wanted to help au-thor promote books on social media. Examples: set up a pre-crafted tweet and a retweet button of the first chapter of a book; format an e-book for publication on Smashwords; help author put up audio clips on the Internet, help with market -
ing on Facebook and Twitter. Much more. Willing to pay well for someone with the right skills. Call 225-3533.    4-15-15-3-14
We are looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking
individuals for the
summer semester & beyond.
Positions include:
Floor Instructors
Receptionists
Kid’s Club Attendants
Housekeeping / Sparkle Crew
Zwurly’s Cafe
Internships also available 
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
and at any of our three locations
4-15-15-3-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
4-22-15-9-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time (Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + 
benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke 
in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   
4-22-15-8-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 PetsMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow us on Twitter
For updates from Florida softball's
series finale against Kentucky, followLuis T orres and Patrick Pinak on Twitter @LFT orresIII and @pinakk12.McCall gets a head coaching call
UF men's basketball assistant coach accepted a job as the head coach of 
T ennessee-Chattanooga's men's basketball team, UTC announced Sunday. McCall worked at UF for the last four seasons.
After defeating T ennessee on 
Sunday, Bryan Shelton and the UF men's tennis team earned the No. 6 seed in the SEC T ournament. They will face No. 11 Kentucky on Thursday.By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
JJ Schwarz's bat was relatively silent through the first two games of 
Florida’s home series against South 
Carolina.
After hitting a school-record four 
home runs against Stetson on Tues-day, the freshman catcher/designat-
ed hitter went a combined 2-for-7 at 
the plate with just one home run.
That changed on Sunday.
Schwarz belted out two more home runs in the series finale as the No. 10 Gators defeated the Game-
cocks 12-2 at McKethan Stadium 
to complete their first Southeastern Conference series sweep.Schwarz finished the four-game 
week — including Tuesday's Stetson 
win — with seven home runs, 15 
RBIs, 12 runs and a 1.882 slugging percentage.
“I don’t know if anything will 
come close (to my performance this week),” Schwarz said. “That was probably a once-in-a-lifetime oppor-tunity.”
Florida (28-9, 9-6 SEC) opened 
scoring Sunday with a four-run sec-ond inning and increased its lead over South Carolina (23-14, 6-9 SEC) to 7-0 after a Schwarz home run in the fourth inning and back-to-back RBI singles by Mike Rivera and Ryan Larson in the fifth.
Both Rivera and Larson knocked 
down three hits on Sunday as Flori-
da’s eight and nine hitters.
UF pitcher Alex Faedo, making 
his first career SEC start, had a per-
fect game through the fourth inning before giving up a double in the fifth.
The freshman righty improved 
his record to 3-1 on the year after tossing 5.2 innings and striking out six batters — both career highs — while giving up just two hits and one run.
“The older guys helped me pre-
pare a lot for it and they gave me a 
lot of advice before the game,” Fae-
do said. 
Added UF coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan: “I’ve got a lot of confi-dence in Alex. He’s going to be a re-ally good pitcher. Today, I think, he showed it. … He made big pitches when he needed to.”
After South Carolina scored its 
first run of the game on a sixth-in-ning solo home run by Gene Cone, 
Florida tacked on three more runs 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF freshman JJ Schwarz rounds third base during Florida's 12-5 win against South Carolina on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. Schwarz 
hit seven home runs over the Gators' last four games, a midweek win against Stetson and a series sweep against South Carolina.
UF sweeps South Carolina, freshman wraps up stellar week
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
After striking out in her first two at-bats, 
Lauren Haeger wasn’t going to walk back 
to the dugout empty-handed for a third time.
Down 1-2 in the count, 
Haeger blasted a three-run home run to left field to give the Gators a 6-2 lead over Kentucky in the fourth inning.
The blast ultimately decided the game as 
the third-ranked Gators (39-4, 10-4 South-eastern Conference) took down the No. 13 Wildcats (27-13, 4-11 SEC) 6-3 Sunday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
The homer was Haeger’s 13th this sea-
son and 65th of her career, which ties the 
school record set by Megan Bush.
“That’s exciting. Megan Bush was talk-
ing to me about it yesterday,” Haeger said. 
“I worked really hard and I can’t believe 
that I’m a senior and it’s al-ready here.”
Freshman Aleshia Ocasio, 
who started the game in the circle, ran into trouble in the top of the third inning. She 
walked UK’s Ansley Smith to begin the in-ning, who advanced to second on a sacri-Florida clinches series versus 
Kentucky, looks to sweepFOOTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
Jim McElwain and his staff have work to 
do with the offense.
And after the Spring game, McElwain 
knows that.
But the annual Orange & Blue Debut 
shouldn’t have been considered a game.
In what was more of a glorified scrim-
mage than an actual Spring game because of 
the lack of depth, the Orange team beat the 
Blue team 31-6 on Saturday.
“I thought we were able to accomplish 
some things out there both offensively and defensively,” McElwain said. “Obviously things that really show up especially when 
your players play against yourselves are the attention to detail and the unforced errors.”
While the scrimmage itself wasn’t the 
spectacle many desired, there were a couple 
of things that stood out. 
Redshirt freshman Will 
Grier took the first snap with the first-team of-
fense, but McElwain said 
the quarterback battle is far from finished. 
“He (Grier) obviously 
took the first snap,” McEl-wain said. “I think they 
probably took the same amount of reps with the one unit. Treon (Harris) missed four practices, so he’s a little behind.
“That’ll be a really good competition 
moving forward.”Spring game was overcast
SOFTBALLMcElwain
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
By Eneisy Rodriguez
Alligator Writer
@eneisyr29
The No. 6 Florida women’s tennis team 
finished the regular-season strong, clinch-
ing the regular-season Southeastern Con-
ference title on Sunday at the Ring Tennis 
Complex.
The Gators swept the Tennessee Volun-
teers with a 4-0 victory to extend the all-
time series record to 42-0.
The match, Florida’s final home match, 
would have typically been celebrated as 
Senior Day, but UF does not have a senior this season.
Last season, the Gators also swept the 
Volunteers with a final score of 7-0.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said the team has phenomenal chemistry and the fresh-man class has been able to transition right 
in.  
“They’re fantastic players and they’re 
great teammates,” Thornqvist said in a re-
lease. 
“That part of it has been really, really 
fun to be around. This team genuinely re-ally enjoys one another and you can sense that when they play and you certainly can sense that when we travel too. ... It’s an 
easy group to travel with. They’re low 
maintenance. Everyone is keen on helping one another.”
The Gators added the early tally after 
clinching the doubles point at Sunday’s outing.
The Florida duo of Spencer Liang and 
Peggy Porter defeated Tennessee’s pairing of Victoria Olivarez and Tiffany Tavares, 8-4.
UF’s pairing of Josie Kuhlman and 
Belinda Woolcock topped their Volun-teers opponents, Eve Repic and Laurence Guevrement, 8-6.
In singles play, No. 5 freshman Brooke 
Austin downed Joanna Henderson, 6-1, 6-1 putting the Gators up 2-0.
Austin’s win in singles on Sunday 
boosted her SEC singles record to 10-2.
Kourtney Keegan defeated Olivarez, 6-3, 
6-0 just a minute after Austin’s victory.
Florida sophomore and Australian na-
tive Belinda Woolcock clinched the match 
after defeating Laurence Guevrement, 6-1, 
6-0.
“It was really exciting,” Woolcock said 
in a release. “I think this week we’ve trained really, 
really hard and ever since we lost against Vanderbilt last weekend we’ve just been extra competitive and hungry. It was really exciting for me to be able to win it for the 
team today.”
The Gators begin their postseason jour-
ney at the SEC Tournament in Columbia, 
South Carolina. 
Top-seed Florida earned a two-round 
bye and plays its first game on Friday, facing the winner of Thursday’s match between No. 8 seed Kentucky and ninth-seeded Ole Miss. 
“Now it’s a new season,” Thornqvist 
said. 
“We have new roles now and the way 
they’ve conducted themselves and the way we’ve improved throughout the regular 
season gives us great hope now for post-
season play.”UF women’s tennis clinches SEC title in regular-season finaleFOOTBALL
By Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
Right tackle Roderick Johnson suffered a neck injury 
during Florida’s Spring football practice that could poten-tially threaten his chances of playing next season. 
Johnson was first reported with a neck injury earlier 
last week.
On Saturday afternoon following the Orange and Blue 
Debut, head coach Jim McElwain expressed major con-
cerns with  the offensive lineman’s injury. 
The staff will know the final verdict today.“Yeah we actually should get the final doc probably on 
Monday there. Doesn’t look great,” McElwain said.
On April 7, McElwain described it as an injury that 
caused a loss of sensation in his fingers. “He got banged up and kind of felt you know his fingers 
kind of went numb and you know kind of stinger-ish type of deal,” McElwain said.
Florida’s healthy scholarship offensive lineman count 
went down to six with Johnson’s injury last week.
“That’s a big loss to the team,” quarterback Treon Har-
ris said. 
“Rod was coming back for his third year. That loss 
killed us a lot, so we have to get the young guys ready and 
the guys coming in in the summer ready to go.”
Johnson played in all 12 games last season as a true 
freshman, and started at right tackle in three games.Florida offensive lineman’s injury could be serious
“That’s a big loss to the team. Rod was coming back for 
his third year. That loss killed us a lot, so we have to 
get the young guys ready and the guys coming in in 
the summer ready to go.”
Treon Harris
UF quarterback
Florida swept Tennessee 4-0 in Gainesvillefice bunt.
Two pitches later, Christian 
Stokes sent a home run over the 
center field wall to give Kentucky a 2-0 lead.
Ocasio has now surrendered 
eight home runs this season, 
which leads the team. 
The St. Cloud native allowed 
three runs in six innings, striking 
out two as she improved to 13-3.
The Gators picked her up and 
found their stroke in the fourth in-ning, scoring six runs. 
After two quick groundouts, 
Florida compiled three walks and four hits. DeWitt plated UF’s first run with an RBI single, and Kirsti 
Merritt knocked in two with an 
infield single to secure a 3-2 lead.
Then Haeger capped off the hit 
parade with the three-run homer.
Ocasio allowed a solo home run 
in the sixth to UK’s Griffin Joiner before Delanie Gourley came in to the circle and earned her first save of the season in the seventh 
inning.
Haeger’s next chance to break 
the program record will come to-
night at 7 at Katie Seashole Press-
ly Stadium as the Gators look to 
sweep the series.
Coach Tim Walton said he’s 
glad to see Haeger capping off 
her career on a high note, and the 
home run record only adds to that.
“It’s an SEC record that only 
four people have had – I think Kel-
ly Kretschman, Francesca Enea, 
Megan Bush and now Lauren Hae-
ger,” he said. “To be mentioned in the same breath as those three hit-ters says a lot about her.”
Grier finished the scrimmage 
8-for-11 with 136 yards passing 
with his best throw of the day com-
ing in the fourth quarter when he 
threw a 42-yard pass to Alvin Bailey on a flea flicker.
The play set up a Case Harrison 
11-yard touchdown run to put the Orange team up 31-6.
As the Spring comes to a close, 
the offense will have to keep getting better as it moves forward.
“There’s just a lot of room for 
improvement,” Grier said. “A lot of things that we did good, OK. 
Overall we improved a lot if you go 
through from the first practice to the last and into the Spring game.”
Grier’s competitor and team-
mate, Treon Harris, showed flashes of his own ability on Saturday. 
Harris had a 24-yard completion 
to Valdez Showers in the second quarter that set up an Austin Hardin 
26-yard field goal. Harris also had 
his own 42-yard completion when he found Demarcus Robinson in the 
third quarter.
Harris finished the game 6-for-10 
for 94 yards and the lone passing touchdown of the scrimmage.
McElwain said that Harris has to have a better sense of urgency 
when he’s in red zone situations.
“I have to work on some things,” Harris said. “Coach Mac (says) if it ain’t there, throw it away, upstairs, 
throw out of bounds.“I have a lot of catching up to do 
with the days that I missed and the install that we put in.”The Blue team’s offensive line 
was consistently manhandled at the line of scrimmage, but that was ex-
pected with just six healthy scholar-ship linemen on the team.
And with Rod Johnson’s future 
status uncertain because of a sting-er he suffered in the team's scrim-
mage on April 3, the offensive line 
is the biggest question mark on the team.
For now, McElwain was im-
pressed with the effort the depleted line put in on Saturday. 
“I’m gonna say my hat's off to 
that offensive line,” McElwain said. “The ones that even walked on, 
they help us in practice.”
Florida has more questions on 
the offensive side of the ball, but it will take until the season opener to 
fully evaluate what the Gators have. 
McElwain wasn’t satisfied with 
how Spring went and there’s a lot the team needs to do to get to where he wants them to be.
“There’s so much more to do,” 
McElwain said. “There’s so many lost opportunities and getting your 
guys to understand the attention to 
detail, the focus of the communica-tion and the mindset to go win this 
play.
“That’s what we’ve got to get.”MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sophomore quarterback Treon Harris prepares to pass during Florida's Orange and Blue Debut on 
Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Quarterback competition still up for grabs, McElwain saidMarley Boerema / Alligator
Lauren Haeger bats during Florida's 2-1 overtime win against North Florida on April 1 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
SOFTBALL,  from pg 13Lauren Haeger tied UF, SEC home run records in Sunday's win
in the sixth and two in the eighth, capped by 
Schwarz’s second homer of the afternoon.
Schwarz now leads UF and is second in the 
SEC with 12 home runs this season.
“Every at-bat, it’s don’t go to the bathroom 
when JJ’s hitting because something special’s going to happen,” Larson said. 
While Schwarz had the week of his career, 
he wasn’t the only Florida player to provide valuable contributions at the plate.
The Gators hit .400 as a team against the 
Gamecocks and have now recorded double-digit hits and runs in four straight games dating back to Tuesday’s game against Stetson.
“I thought overall this was our most com-
plete weekend,” O’Sullivan said. “We pitched 
well. Some guys that may have been struggling 
should feel better about themselves, about how they did this weekend. Defensively we were great and offensively we were great as well.”Florida continues its schedule with its third 
regular-season game against No. 8 Florida State on Tuesday.
The Gators and the Seminoles split their 
first two games of the year, with UF winning 14-8 on March 17 in Gainesville and FSU eve-ning the series with an 8-3 win on March 31 in 
Jacksonville.
But O’Sullivan isn’t worrying about that 
game just yet.
“I’m going to take a deep breath and enjoy 
this one for right now,” he said.Series notes: Florida swept South Caro-
lina for the fifth time in program history and 
the third time under O’Sullivan. The Gators are now 43-41 all-time against the Gamecocks and 19-11 during O’Sullivan’s eight years. … UF 
starters accumulated a 3.95 ERA this weekend, 
while the relief pitchers posted a 3.375 mark. The pitching staff as a whole struck out 23 bat-ters while walking just seven. … Florida hit six home runs this weekend, bringing its season total to 41. … Florida’s defense did not commit an error during the three-game series.BASEBALL,  from pg 13O'Sullivan: 'Overall this was our most complete weekend'“That’s exciting. Megan Bush 
was talking to me about it 
yesterday. I worked really 
hard and I can’t believe that 
I’m a senior and it’s already 
here.”
Lauren Haeger
UF softball pitcher16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015
JOHNSON’S JOURNAL
Spring football is a time 
of renewal — all new coaches, even some new players, or at least ones we haven’t seen thanks to 
injury.
But in The Swamp, the results 
looked mostly the same.
There weren’t wild conclu-
sions to be drawn from Florida’s Spring game. Nothing shocked, nothing awed. It was without his-trionics as most spring games are and with-out great play either.
That should worry you if you had out-
landish expectations for this team, which you shouldn’t have had in the ﬁ  rst place.
Jim McElwain can only sell you futures 
for so long. At some point, this team is go-ing to step on the ﬁ  eld and play a real game and fans will see how much of a work in progress it really is.
I believe in McElwain. 
He’s a good coach and he’s assembled a 
decent staff. 
I believe he’s building the program in an 
intelligent way with a support staff modeled 
in the mold of Alabama’s.
But through Spring, summer and for all the world to see on Sept. 5, McEl-wain still has to play the hand Will Muschamp and co. dealt him, and that’s far short of a royal ﬂ  ush.
Is there talent on this squad? 
Absolutely yes.
Is there depth? Absolutely not.Unfortunately for McElwain, 
that’s what builds winning teams. 
The offensive line in the Or-
ange and Blue Debut was about 
as lacking as you’d expect with six healthy players, only one of which had seen mean-
ingful time in a college football game. 
It didn’t sound like McElwain had any 
delusions of grandeur, probably because 
you shouldn’t either. When asked if he was satisﬁ  ed with how the offense progressed he ﬁ  rmly responded with a “no.” 
I don’t think that was the PR response in 
a “never be satisﬁ  ed” type of answer. 
I think he realizes this team may still be 
at the bottom of the proverbial mountain and haven’t done as much climbing up it as they needed.
But it’s not the play on the ﬁ  eld that I 
think bothers McElwain so much. 
It’s the mindset and mentality. That’s what he railed about the other 
day when the effort at a practice following a good scrimmage was sub-par. 
It’s about getting players to understand 
attention to detail. Attitude adjustment, McElwain hopes, will breed success. 
But how long will it take to reform the 
product between the ears of 85 scholarship Florida Gators and how long will that take to translate onto the ﬁ  eld? Only time will tell.
Gators still have a long way to go before season opener
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Florida head football coach Jim McElwain watches during the Orange and Blue 
Debut on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Richard 
Johnson
twitter: @RagjUF