By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Just ﬁ  ve weeks ago, Florida was unranked, 
and Jim McElwain and his team were both un-
proven.
Now, the Gators ﬁ  nd themselves ranked 
11th in the country after defeating then-No. 3 
Ole Miss 38-10 in one of the biggest upsets of 
this young college football season.That’s something no one thought possible 
— except for the team that pulled it off.
“(The Rebels) probably thought that they 
were going to come in here and beat our tails off. That’s good,” UF coach Jim McElwain said after the game. “And I’m sure the next team’s going to be the same because here’s what’s go-ing to be next. ‘Are these guys for real?’... and all this kind of stuff and I get it. I’ve been there. I get it. We’ll ﬁ  nd out.”
The win didn’t come from anyone doing anything out of the ordinary, though, accord-ing to McElwain. Instead, it came from every-one doing his job, an idea the team seems to have bought into.
“A place like this, the talent level in this 
building, you expect to make the plays,” tight end Jake McGee said. “You shouldn’t get a pat on the back for making a touchdown catch, for making a big play. That’s what you’re sup-posed to do.
“Internally, we’ve been a conﬁ  dent group 
and we know what we have on this team and what we can do. ... We’ve known all Spring, 
Summer, camp what we can do if we worked the right way.”
It would have been easy to have little faith 
this season. 
The Southeastern Conference media picked 
Florida to ﬁ  nish ﬁ  fth in the SEC East, and a 
seven- or eight-win season probably would have satisﬁ  ed most reasonable fans. 
There were plenty of questions about the 
team’s talent and experience levels, or the lack thereof.
But while people on the outside doubted, 
McElwain has seemingly restored the belief within the locker room, particularly on the of-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 30 MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
UF women’s basketball team 
focused on improving toughness
Coach Amanda Butler wants the Gators to 
emphasize physicality this season, pg. 16
Sorority “Trap Queen” photo causes controversy
It’s now seen as an educational opportunity, pg. 3
A new Cade museum in the works
Phase one began Friday, pg. 5Roped up
Students enjoy a cool Sunday at the Gator Open Climb. Check out the photos, pg. 9
OLE MISS 10 FLORIDA 38
FROM UNDERRATED TO ELATED
UF leads SEC East after upset win
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
School of Music building 
is hanging by a note  
THE CONDITIONS ARE 
HINDERING STUDENTS’ 
ABILITY TO PERFORM.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer 
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
She’s surrounded by empty 
black chairs.
Her cords contract and ex-
pand against her will as cold air 
seeps into the room. Her tune 
rings painfully against the cement 
walls.
The 77-year-old piano waits 
to be tuned in UF’s College of the Arts for the second time in two weeks, a practice usually done once every three months. She isn’t the only victim of the build-ing’s harsh climate.  
Other instruments, especially 
those made of wood, are harmed by the music building’s open structure. While the garden in the center of the building’s ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor is picturesque, the open rafters 
expose the interior to rain and 
chill. Even with the instruments housed inside lockers and rooms, Florida’s humidity dampens the classrooms.
Neither problem is helped by a 
poor heating, venting and cooling system (HVAC) intended to con-trol each room’s temperature.
These are issues being ad-
dressed by the university. Howev-er, as students and staff wait for funding and legislation, the piano won’t play to her full potential.
      
Steven Thomas’ ofﬁ  ce is lined 
with cello cases.
While his ofﬁ  ce is considered 
one of the biggest in the building, space disappears in the window-
less room with ﬁ  ve or six cello 
cases standing next to a piano. But he’s willing to sacriﬁ  ce space if it means his students’ instru-ments are protected from the hu-midity.
“When it rains, it rains inside 
the building,” the UF orchestra professor said. “With excessive 
humidity in a building, instru-
ments will begin to buckle.”
Climate control is just one is-
sue facing the music students.
Music bleeds from classroom 
to classroom because the walls aren’t soundproof. 
The roof leaks when it rains. 
And the college’s nearly 300 
students must ﬁ  ght for practice 
time in the building’s 14 practice rooms.By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
Over lunch, they wrestled.
A tray of pulled pork and 
baked beans got pushed aside as 
they locked hands. One hand was 
weathered, the crinkled palm of a homeless veteran. The other hand was meaty, the strong palm of a wrestler.
But, within seconds, Mike 
Grace brought down the hand of 
Thaddeus Bullard — former UF 
defensive end and current World Wrestling Entertainment wrestler Titus O’Neil — with a thump.
“He let me win,” Grace whis-
pered, eyes crinkling with a smile.Grace, 38, had challenged Bul-
lard to the match in jest as Bullard visited St. Francis House Friday morning. Bullard visited after UF 
students fulﬁ  lled his challenge to 
earn 3,000 volunteer hours as part of the Gator Good campaign.
“He’s not a movie star type and  A gentle giant visits St. Francis
 Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Thaddeus Bullard, former UF defensive end and current World Wrestling Entertainment, or WWE, 
wrestler known as Titus O’Neil, kisses 5-month-old Maelynn Kensey at St. Francis House on  Friday. 
SEE TITUS,  PAGE 8
SEE MUSIC,  PAGE 4“When it rains, it rains 
inside the building. With 
excessive humidity in a 
building, instruments will 
begin to buckle.”
Steven Thomas
UF orchestra professorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Mid-Autumn Festival
UF’s Chinese American 
Student Association and Chinese Student Association are hosting a Mid-Autumn 
Festival show Saturday in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. There will be free food and a variety of performances. The show will also feature cultural activities and free raffles. Mid-Autumn is a time to celebrate the harvest, the moon and being with family. 
The show, “Coming Home: 
A Journey Through China,” will incorporate these themes through a narrative woven between performances. The show is free for all ages. Doors open at 6 p.m., and the show starts at 6:30 p.m.  
Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, at 970 Natural Area Drive. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For de-tails about Talking Gators, 
go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page.  
UFIC and the Fulbright Lecture 
CommitteeUFIC and Fulbright Lecture Committee invite you to “What I Need to Prepare If I 
Receive a Fulbright Award and 
Go Abroad.” This workshop will be pre-sented by Karen Reed, clini-cal assistant and professor of nursing. She was a Fulbright Scholar in Cambodia for the 2013-2014 academic year. There she taught as a visit-ing professor at the Kampot Regional Training Center in Kampot, Cambodia, as well 
as conducted professional 
development programs for Cambodian nursing faculty, nurses and nursing adminis-trators. This event is free and open to the public, but regis-tration is encouraged. Visiting eventbrite.com/e/us-scholar-fulbright-session-what-i-need-
to-prepare-if-i-receive-a-ful-
bright-award-and-go-abroad-tickets-18781904181.For more information, please contact Dr. Charles Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
African Americans in Paris 
class information  At 2 p.m. Thursday, Sharon Austin, director of the African American Studies Program and associate professor of 
political science, will provide 
information about her African 
Americans in Paris class 
(POS/AFA 4940) in the second 
floor conference room of the 
Institute of Black Culture on West University Avenue. The two-to-three credit course will be offered in Paris, France, during Spring Break 2016. Please contact Austin at polss-dw.ufl.edu for more informa-tion.
5K Walk to Eliminate Health 
DisparitiesUF’s Health Disparities Research Intervention Program (Carolyn M. Tucker, director) and Suwannee River Area Health Education Center (Sarah Catalanotto, execu-
tive director) are sponsoring a 
5K walk titled “2015 Walk to Eliminate Health Disparities: Walking to Promote a Healthy Weight” on Saturday. There will be free prizes and healthy snacks. All are wel-come to register in advance at tx.ag/5KWalk free of charge.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club holds bi-weekly lessons/dances every Monday and Friday. The free lessons are open to everyone. Monday nights are at the Reitz Union Breezeway, located at 
655 Reitz Union Drive, with 
lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. On Friday nights, they are at the Unified Training Center, located at 809 W. University Ave., with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social danc-
ing from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
If you have any questions or would like to get involved, visit the Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 30
HIGH  82° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
  Mia Gettenberg
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
 Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Noah Shitama, 36-year-old founder of Swallow tail Farm, discusses the importance of sup-
porting local farmers at the First Magnitude Brewing Company on Sunday for the Back to the Garden CSA Fair. “We do it for the families that we feed and join us at the market, ” he said. “The community is the heart of it all, ” he said. 
 
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Noah Shitama greeted each person 
who came up to his stand with a smile.
The local farmer talked to each visitor 
with enthusiasm, explaining how Gaines-
ville’s community-supported agriculture 
program (CSA) provides the community 
with organic produce.
Shitama spoke to visitors as part of the 
Back to the Garden Community Supported Agriculture Fair at First Magnitude Brew-ing Company Sunday evening. As the or-ganizer, he invited other local farmers to join him to get more Gainesville residents interested and involved with the program.
“To me it’s crucial that we demon-
strate to the community that we are not competing,” said Shitama, the owner of Swallowtail Farm.
The farm serves about 230 families, 
Shitama said. Jordan Brown, standing behind his modest table next to Shitama, said his farm, the Family Garden, serves about 200 families.
Both farmers broke into the CSA mar-
ket six years ago.
The CSA program brings in about 35 
percent of Brown’s revenue. For Shitama, however, he is completely dependent on his customers and the trust they have in him, he said.
Many people like supporting the local 
economy and farmers, said Brown and Shitama. Others enjoy the taste and health beneﬁ  ts of consuming organic produce.
“I like actually having things that are 
fresh and local,” said Gainesville resident Naomi Sandoval. “I feel so much health-ier.”
The program also introduces custom-
ers to fruits and vegetables they may never try or see at a supermarket, said Amy Van Scoik, co-owner of Frog Song Organics.
Sandoval, a CSA customer of Siembra 
Farm, said she never liked beets. They tasted like dirt to her.
When she received some in her weekly 
pickup, though, she decided to look at recipes and settled on roasting one.
Roasted, the beet tasted sweet and was 
something she’d eat.
Sandoval said she likes the hassle-free 
process of the CSA program. Instead of 
having to pick out vegetables and fruits at 
a market garden or grocery store, Siembra Farm selects and provides the produce for her. She likes the produce better than that from the market and store too, she said.
“Everything I get here, everything is 
good,” Sandoval said. Local farmers hold fair to promote agriculture in community 
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
When president of the Black Student Union 
Phillip Wells saw a photo of four sorority sis-ters wearing shirts that read “trap queen,” his ﬁ  rst thought was to analyze it.
Wells, a UF telecommunication senior, 
said his friends sent him the photo of the Chi Omega Sorority women when it was posted recently. The photo was taken down shortly after the photo’s trap-queen message was called offensive. “Trap queen” refers to a woman who runs a house where drugs are made and sold, alongside a drug lord.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said UF is 
aware of the photo, and Student Activities and Involvement and the Bias Education and Response Team are working with Chi Omega.
“We understand there was no intention to 
offend anyone, but we’re using this opportu-nity as a time for education,” she said.
Sikes said UF responds to what oth-
ers deem offensive, not what the university deems offensive.Wells, 21, said the girls were wearing hats 
written with the titles “little,” “big,” “grand big” and “great grand big.” The “great grand big” posted the photo on Facebook, caption-ing it with, “I guess I’m collecting social secu-rity and medicare now #GG.”
He said he didn’t personally ﬁ  nd the photo 
offensive, but the reference to government as-sistance along with the words “trap queen” offended many in BSU.
While UF’s chapter of Chi Omega did not 
respond to requests for comment, Whitney Plumpton, the director of marketing and pub-lic relations for Chi Omega’s executive head-quarters, wrote in an email that the executive headquarters agrees with Sikes’ statement. Plumpton said the executive headquarters concluded the picture was not posted with any malicious or racist intentions.
Wells said he’d be open to a BSU and Chi 
Omega co-sponsored educational forum.
“We’re in different student organizations, 
but we’re not that different in relation to this university,” he said. “I think that we can reach out to one another and educate each other.”
 Sorority “Trap Queen” photo used as educational opportunityThe rooms’ small size and cinder block 
walls don’t absorb sound, making it diffi-
cult to teach students, Thomas said. Violins and cellos — the softer instruments — can be heard throughout the building as they’re played.
Often, he has to coordinate with other 
professors so he can teach without compet-ing with the sounds of brass instruments down the hall.
“If you’re teaching a music instrument in 
a room too small, you actually destroy your hearing,” he said. “And we’re destroying the hearing of our students.”
With more students than intended for the 
building, Thomas said the music program has outgrown the facility and is in need of a new building. It’s a building he feels is not worth salvaging — it should be gutted.
“When the infrastructure is not good, you 
can put all the Band-Aids you want on it —it’s eventually going to crumble,” he said.
While the problems are persistent, the 
university is aware of them, UF spokeswom-an Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
Last year, maintenance needs for build-
ings across UF reached almost $48 million. With total funding for repairs under $17 mil-lion, there’s a $30 million hole for remaining 
maintenance projects that could not be com-
pleted, Sikes said.
“As a result, the university is forced to 
prioritize campus maintenance projects, focusing specifically on safety and urgent needs,” she said.
Despite being on the priority list, repairs 
to the building are slow without legislative funding and limited private donations.
Some of the music building’s completed 
projects include the addition of eight sound-proof practice rooms, called Wenger halls,  
and new railings.
The Wenger practice rooms cost about 
$25,000 to $30,000 each and were funded 
through private donations. A larger Wenger room was installed in Fall 2014 for percus-sion students and cost about $125,000, said Trent Weller, the UF School of Music facili-
ties manager. The anti-slip paint was added 
over the summer and cost about $40,000.
But the cost of these minor repairs is 
nothing compared to the price of replacing the roof and the HVAC system, which are projects Sikes said are in the works.
Sikes said the cost for replacing the 
29-year-old roof is estimated at $12 million 
and is expected to be completed April 2016. 
The 44-year old HVAC system is estimated to cost $2.5 million, but its replacement is still pending.While the administration deals with 
funding issues, music students are working to bring attention to the problems in their building.
After students spoke with now UF Stu-
dent Senator Francesca Levy about the con-dition of the building during the Spring 2015 
campaign, the College of the Arts senator 
is currently pushing for recognition of the problems facing the music students in their building.
The 19-year-old UF art education sopho-
more went on a tour of the building with UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, its issues apparent as they walked past crowded classrooms and cracked foun-
dation.
They put the music building’s renovation 
on Student Government’s legislative agenda 
and will take it to Tallahassee to lobby for state funding. The estimated cost to rebuild the facility is $40 million, Weller said.
“We don’t want to put a Band-Aid over 
it,” Levy said. “If we’re going to do this and ask for money, then we want to completely 
redo the building.”
•   •   •
When Sophie Press waited for her au-
dition in January, her fingers froze in the 
40-degree weather.
“The practice room was so cold that I 
couldn’t really move my fingers, and the 
grad student brought me a space heater,” the 
18-year-old UF music freshman said.
The space heater solved one problem and 
caused another, drying out the thin, wooden reed essential to her performance.With the reed needing moisture to fully 
function within the instrument, it became a challenge she didn’t need during the college audition.
But Press was still accepted and still de-
cided to attend — not because of the build-ing, but because of the chance to study under world-renowned clarinet professor Mitchell Estrin.
“I know we have such a great program,” 
she said. “We can do so much in spite of this building.”
UF School of Music interim director Kevin 
Orr said the building is one of the biggest challenges when trying to recruit students during auditions, but the school continues to grow nonetheless.
“What’s amazing, because our faculty is 
so strong and our curriculum is so strong, 
(is that) we continue to get outstanding stu-
dents,” he said.  
But Press said she still finds potential stu-
dents are deterred from attending because they fear the college could lose its accredita-tion from the National Association of Schools of Music’s report. A report comes out every 10 years, and the last two noted the music building does not meet the needs for faculty 
or students.
But, this doesn’t mean the school would 
lose its accreditation, Orr said. A college 
loses its accreditation based on inadequate facility, low graduation rates and poor cur-riculum, he said.
The 2010 report found the handrails to be 
a safety issue and the need for a heating and cooling system. It also highlighted the lim-ited practice space, the school’s inability to 
record performances due to the non-sound-
proofed walls and the lack of a recital hall, Orr said.
UF is the only state school to not have 
its own recital hall. The University of Cen-tral Florida, Florida State University and the University of South Florida have their own concert recital halls. UF has to rent the recital hall in the Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts and the University Auditorium for 
concerts.
It’s estimated that it would cost $18 mil-
lion to build a recital hall at UF, Weller said.
“What the push here is, we deserve to be 
able to provide a facility for these amazing students,” Orr said.
Will Teegarden, a UF alumnus, said he 
would have considered doing his masters at 
UF if the building was in better condition. 
Now he attends Carnegie Mellon University.
“As vain as it sounds, it really does make 
a difference in morale (with) the space you’re at,” he said.
Current students such as Kayla Poor find 
the space too small to practice and store their instruments.
“The school of music alone is not big 
enough for the students it has,” Poor, a UF music education junior said. The 20-year-old has a locker that would fit her French horn comfortably if not shared with other students.
It’s her third year in the music building, 
and she doesn’t see hope for it as is.
“The problems that need to be fixed can’t 
be fixed with the building they have now,” 
Poor said. “We need a new building.”4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
The estimated cost to renovate the building is $40 million
Ariana Figueroa / Alligator Staff Ariana Figueroa / Alligator Staff MUSIC,  from pg 1
CENTER:
Trent Weller, the facilities manager for 
UF’s School of Music, checks whether a piano’s strings are swollen to see if it needs tuning. The piano is about 70 years old.
BOTTOM LEFT:
This former practice room in UF’s School of Music building is used as an office for a graduate teaching assistant. The build-ing lacks acoustic structure and the walls don’t absorb sound well, Weller said.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Some of these chairs have been in the building since the College of the Arts was formed. They are still used for lec-tures and recitals despite torn and leak-ing cushion foam. MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Martin Vassolo
Alligator Writer
In 1965, Jaxon Cade Kenne-
dy’s great-grandfather invented a 
sports drink in the basement of a 
UF teaching hospital.
On Friday, 6-year-old Jaxon 
watched as people clinked bea-
kers of Gatorade and celebrated 
the legacy of his great-grandfa-
ther, James Robert Cade, his in-vention and the groundbreaking of a second museum in Cade’s memory.
The $10 million, 45,000-square-
foot building will be located at 904 S. Main St. in Depot Park, across the street to the current 
Cade Museum for Creativity and 
Invention.
The current museum has func-
tioned as a science and innova-tion laboratory for thousands 
of young students over the past 
three years, said Phoebe Cade Miles, Cade’s daughter and the museum’s CEO.
“If we can do this much with a 
very small staff of four and a tiny, little building, imagine the possi-bilities when we have this build-ing up and running,” she said.
Miles’ father passed away in 
2007, and she opened the ﬁ  rst museum in 2011 to carry on his 
legacy of innovation and inspire 
the next generation of inventors and entrepreneurs, said Leslie La-dendorf, the development direc-
tor for the Cade Museum Founda-
tion.
About 100 people attended Friday to continue Miles’ vision for the groundbreaking of phase one of the museum’s construc-tion. The project’s ﬁ  rst stage will 
be 21,000 square feet and feature 
several exhibits, Miles said.
So far, $6.3 million has been 
raised toward the museum’s con-
struction, most of which came 
from county funds and private donations. The museum hopes to raise the remaining funds before the planned completion of phase 
one in 2017, Ladendorf said. 
She said there is currently no 
time frame for phase two.
Mayor Ed Braddy, who was in 
attendance Friday, said the ad-
dition of the museum will help Gainesville compete with other cities in the state.
“If places like Miami can be 
the commercial capital of Florida, and Orlando can be the entertain-ment capital, and Tallahassee can be the political capital,” he said to 
the crowd, “let it be known that 
Gainesville is the innovation capi-tal of the Sunshine State.”
At about 10:30 a.m., the dig-
nitaries made their way to a dirt pile in lime-green hard hats to pay homage to the very ﬁ  rst ﬂ  a-vor of Gatorade.After the ﬁ  rst group, Jim Free 
and Alejandro de Quesada picked 
up a pair of shovels. In 1965, the 
two helped Cade develop Gato-rade for UF’s dehydrated football team.
After the ceremony, the crowd 
walked across South Main Street to the current Cade Museum, which houses furniture from the laboratory Cade and his team 
used half a century ago, along 
with a separate lab for students.
UF electrical engineering se-
nior Veronica Pirie, who works at 
the museum’s student laboratory, 
said the facility’s lab has snap circuits and 3-D printers. It of-fers hands-on classes for students during the week.
Pirie, 21, said the idea of work-
ing so closely to history is fasci-nating.
“It’s kind of something to in-
spire all the kids that come in here,” she said.
Luther Lee, an administrator 
for the Caring and Sharing Learn-ing School, said his students fre-
quently visit the laboratory, but 
a bigger building would house more opportunities.
“Having a facility like this will 
enable students to understand that there is a broad horizon out there,” Lee said.
Outside, Emily Cade Kennedy 
watched her son walk around in a 
lime-green hard hat, the same one 
used to break ground hours prior.
She said she hoped Jaxon 
would be proud of his roots and 
his grandfather’s legacy.
“Hopefully it makes him real-
ize that it’s okay to be a dream-
er,” she said.A new Cade museum in the works
Phase one began Friday
“If we can do this much with 
a very small staf of four and 
a tiny, little building, imagine 
the possibilities when we have 
this building up and running.”
Phoebe Cade Miles
museum CEO
Ashley K. Jolicoeur / Alligator 
HISPANIC HERITAGE 
Latino rapper Fat Joe brings up Hispanic Heritage Month executive director Susel Ramos, a 21-year-
old UF international studies senior, onstage Friday night to thank her for bringing him to celebrate Hispanic and Latino culture. Fat Joe and Fulanito performed at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts in a free concert hosted by SGP and Hispanic Heritage Month.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnDeaths in Kunduz 
speak for modern 
war re-adjustment
In light of the U.S.-led airstrike that bombed a Doctors 
Without Borders hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, on Saturday, it is time to reconsider the role the U.S. plays abroad. The airstrike, which killed 22 people — 10 pa-tients and 12 staff members — and left 37 wounded, 
resulted in the departure of Doctors Without Borders in the area. “No medical activities are possible now in the M.S.F. (Médecins Sans Frontières, Doctors Without Borders’ in-ternational name) hospital in Kunduz, at a time when the medical needs are immense,” said Tim Shenk, a spokesman for the organization, to The New York Times.
These deaths are the latest casualties in what has become 
America’s perpetual state of war in the Middle East. The declaration of the “War on Terror” 14 years ago created (at 
least in its most modern iteration) a continual war machine 
that shows no signs of stopping anytime soon. Although the “war” in Afghanistan has mostly “ended,” the amazing technological advances of the last decade have meant the U.S. can still play a decisive militaristic role in the region without having a ﬂ  eet of boots on the ground.
This past July, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, Gen. Martin Dempsey, issued a report in which he urged the Pentagon to brace for a continuous state of 
war in the decades to come. “We are more likely to face 
prolonged campaigns than conﬂ  icts that are resolved quick-ly…” Dempsey wrote. “We may have to adjust our global posture.”
The blight ISIS has inﬂ  icted upon the Middle East speaks 
to the difﬁ  culty of resolving military campaigns neatly and traditionally; how does one quash a movement that is fu-eled by a memetic ideology rather than a strict desire to amass land and resources?
Indeed, the chaos that has engulfed the Middle East — 
and has now spread to Europe, which is most obviously visible through the refugee crisis — has also been aggra-vated by the machinations of other global powers such as Russia and Iran. The question is this: Given other powerful actors seek to achieve nefarious ends through decentralized means, how does the U.S. respond in an intelligent fashion?
If this tragedy is any indication, airstrikes are not the so-
lution. With the proliferation of drones, intelligent missiles 
and seemingly effective bombing campaigns, it has become 
easier than ever for the U.S.-led military campaigns to sim-ply bomb the hell out of enemy strongholds and headquar-ters. What these maneuvers fail to account for is human-ity: Although it had become a Taliban stronghold, the city of Kunduz still has innocent human lives whose situations have worsened because of this action.
In an increasingly complicated geopolitical world, it 
would seem the only sane response would be to act with in-
telligence and precision. As appealing as drone strikes and 
bombings might be on account of taking the “work” out of “dirty work,” these methods relieve military actors of hav-ing to face the consequences of war directly, resulting in the impartial murder of innocent lives. War never has and never will have simple, convenient stratagems and solu-tions. However, there is no conceivable way that the deaths of innocents can serve as an endorsement of an effective, well-thought out strategy.UF would beneﬁ  t from a Public Service Academy
Dear President Fuchs,
As the head of UF, I’m sure you’ve 
witnessed the innovation, drive, deter-mination and wide-eyed optimism of the Student Body. I’m sure you’ve met 
with students who yearn to make the world a better place. I’m sure you’ve talked to students with resumes and credentials that span many typed pages. And I’m even more conﬁ  dent each student you’ve met has one characteristic in common: They all want to do more and be more.  
Another head of a public university also witnessed 
and heard the clamor of his students to do more. As a 
result of signiﬁ  cant time and effort, Arizona State Uni-
versity created the ﬁ  rst Public Service Academy in the nation. ASU President Michael Crow knows the academy “will build a culture of service and a pipeline of leaders who will work across sectors to undertake humanitarian efforts and to address real-life issues facing our unpre-dictable world.”  
The Public Service Academy houses the existing 
Reserve Ofﬁ  cer Training Corps and the new Next Gen-
eration Service Corps. The latter group was especially 
designed with the intention of offering civilian students a way to hone their leadership skills. Together, the ROTC and Next Generation Service Corps participate in “unique civilian-military collaboration, a series of seven leadership courses and a set of summer internships in nonproﬁ  t, government or private organizations.”
This is a truly innovative way for students of all stripes 
and cadres to work toward the common goal of becom-
ing better leaders. Both future military leaders and future 
CEOs, teachers, politicians and journalists can create an impressive and positive societal impact through this Public Service Academy. And ASU is currently witness-ing the impressive results of this joint-training program.
The academy seeks to create the future leaders of 
tomorrow that will face challenges “with compassion, collaboration and character — the type of leaders our future requires.” The skills cultivated in this four-year academy will redeﬁ  ne “the role that business, nonproﬁ  t, military and government leaders can play in catalyzing collective social change.”  
President Crow is rightfully proud about 
his new university program: “Public service is something to which [ASU leaders] and I have devoted much of our professional lives. It is ﬁ  tting that emerging leaders in the ﬁ  eld are trained at ASU — a solutions-focused institu-
tion committed to the highest level of academic excel-lence to achieve maximum societal impact. We are eager to witness these leaders go on to improve communities 
in Arizona and across the world.”     
When I ﬁ  rst learned about ASU’s Public Service Acad-
emy, I thought this could be implemented, executed and 
perfected at UF. It is well-known our university has some of the best Navy, Air Force, Marine and Army ROTC pro-grams in the nation. It is apparent we have institutions like the Bob Graham Center for Public Service that can be useful in the implantation of this program.
Clearly, President Fuchs, we have a Student Body 
more than willing to become part of a program that will develop young people into the movers, thinkers and shakers of tomorrow after they graduate. After all, we all came to UF for this reason. We have a president with the vision and willpower to make a Public Service Academy. I would not mention all of these obvious things if I didn’t believe in them myself.
Organizations like the Peace Corps and Teach For 
America inculcate in their participants a sense of duty 
and desire to do public service. I think having a program 
with similar goals in our own backyard can produce the same, if not better, results and improve the participants’ lives and the lives of those around them. After all, Presi-dent Fuchs, this is a worthwhile way for us to improve the Gator Good.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
When Pope Francis visited the U.S., he caused 
quite the stir with all major news channels covering his every move. The vast amount 
of coverage was strange, considering only 
20.8 percent of Americans considered them-
selves Catholic in 2014, according to Pew.
Even though Francis is viewed as a liberal darling, 
he’s actually far from it. In contrast to previous popes, he might be the most practical. But what’s being hailed as progressive from the pope is actually more in line with conservative or moderate policy in the U.S.
There’s a fascination with Francis that is different 
from those who preceded him, primarily because he’s considered different. And in some ways, he is. He sup-ported the idea of civil unions for gay couples in 2010. But a civil union isn’t a marriage.
Most of his reforms are common sense. For in-
stance, he has supported the right of mothers to breast-feed in the Sistine Chapel. Whenever you’re creating an event that’s speciﬁ  cally for babies, such as a baptism, it makes sense to allow breastfeeding.
Because he’s the pope, people have a very low stan-
dard of what is considered “liberal.”
While he’s advised Catholics to think more about 
how many children they’re having, he hasn’t outright 
accepted contraception. Some may think this is just an 
issue of ideology that doesn’t have any real world con-sequences. That’s just not true. 
The Catholic Church has a great deal of inﬂ  uence, 
and their opposition to the use of condoms has contrib-
uted to the spread of HIV/AIDS.
This year, he also declared that women who have 
had abortions can and ought to be forgiven. While his 
slight reforms are better than nothing, they still leave 
much to be desired. If a democrat exhibited the same 
behaviors as Francis, he would not be cheered on. In fact, he would be decried as not doing enough to en-sure equality.
Although the Vatican contends that the pope’s meet-
ing with Kim Davis was not about supporting her po-sition, it is easy to see it that way. After all, it’s hard to believe the Vatican did not know how politically charged such a meeting would be. Even though he also 
met with a gay couple during his visit, in my opinion, 
his meeting with Davis tainted his entire trip to the U.S.
While the pope may not ﬁ  t neatly into American po-
litical categories, everything he does concerning issues of marriage, abortion and contraception is inherently 
political simply because of the position he occupies as 
a leader. Francis has made statements about not judg-ing LGBTQ+ people, but the fact that the church con-tinues to exclude them speaks for itself. Just last week, 
a high ranking priest was ﬁ  red for coming out as gay. 
This makes it clear that while the Pope is OK with gay people in principle, they are unacceptable within the ranks of the Vatican. Exclusion within the church con-tinues, whether it’s for women or LGBTQ+ individu-
als who want positions of power within the Catholic 
Church.
It’s great the pope is willing to embrace a gay man 
and forgive abortions for the time being. But that 
should not be heralded as revolutionary. While his 
small reforms are better than nothing, Francis should not be considered above criticism. Toleration is not enough. Acceptance is the ultimate goal.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Pope Francis is not as 
liberal as he seemsColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
On Sept. 27, Catalonia held elections to its de-
volved parliament. A coalition of nationalist parties won 72 out of 135 seats, though only 48 percent of the vote. The coalition, which ranges from the center-right Convergència to 
radical CUP, bills this vote as a de facto afﬁ  rmative ref-erendum on independence from Spain, and right-wing president of Catalonia, Artur Mas, agrees.
However, many Spanish media outlets have main-
tained Catalans rejected independence; they lump the 11 percent of votes for Podemos’ left-wing, indepen-dence-agnostic coalition with those for anti-independence parties. More gravely, the central Spanish government, headed by Prime Minister Rajoy of the conservative Partido Popular, refuses to rec-
ognize the vote, as the Spanish constitution does not allow for 
such referenda. Beyond lisping “Barcelona” and admiring the Sa-grada Familia and underage drinking, we at UF often understand little of Catalan politics. To understand this vote better, I inter-viewed a professor of Spanish history, a Catalan doctoral student and a fellow from Madrid.
First, we must go back to the dictatorship of Francisco Franco 
from 1939 to 1975. George Esenwein, the associate professor of modern Iberian history, explains, “All regional cultures and iden-
tities were suppressed during the Franco regime, which declared 
that Spain ought to be one, indivisible country.” This conﬂ  icted with the limited regional autonomy won by Basques and Catalans during the Second Republic and Civil War.
Catalan became a vehicle for opposition. As Esenwein de-
scribes, “By the time Franco died in 1975, Catalan was surfacing at the street level and in educational settings. At the University of Barcelona, for example, students and professors demonstrated their open resistance to the continuation of the dictatorship by 
holding discussions in Catalan.” I can recall a ﬁ  ercely pro-inde-
pendence Catalan woman I studied with in Paris, who needed nothing more than memories of teachers beating her for speaking Catalan to justify her view — and who made me eat crow.
Francesc Xavier Morales Garcia, a UF doctoral student in 
Spanish literature and pro-independence native of Catalonia, complains the 1978 constitution that followed Franco’s death made the state difﬁ  cult to reform, creating a so-called “sociologi-cal Francoism,” which identiﬁ  es democracy with the state and reforms of it with anti-democracy. Additionally, he be-lieves the ﬁ  gure of the king has replaced the dictator as head of state, making Republican and/or Democratic reform impossible. For these reasons, he ﬁ  nds it more viable to break with Spain entirely.
Even on a personal level, regionalism is a long-
standing reality in Spain, Esenwein continues. “Spain has for many years been a country composed of small-er countries: ‘Patria chica.’ In the Northwest, many see themselves as Gallegos. The Basques and the Catalans also identify themselves as being separate from Castile 
and the Castilians. They become Spaniards very rarely, such as when Spain competes and wins in the World Cup.”
Apart from cultural and linguistic reasons, Catalonian inde-
pendence has an economic component, with industry, agriculture and its ideal Mediterranean location leaving a rich legacy. Fur-thermore, Catalans often consider themselves especially industri-ous, Esenwein explains, recalling a Catalan expression: “Catalans can make bread from rocks,” as well as the common comparison of Barcelona to Milan. Thus, he says, many “feel as though all of their hard work and success is being siphoned off by a ‘foreign’ power based in Madrid.”
Manuel Tardáguila, a research fellow in professor Ana Cone-
sa’s microbiology lab and native of Madrid, agrees Catalonians have an “entrepreneurial spirit,” but says the more common ste-reotype is northerners work harder than Andalusians. Further-more, he says, Catalonia’s not the only region that contributes more in tax revenues than it receives in government spending: so do Madrid and the Balearic Islands.
Additionally, he notes ossiﬁ  ed images of Madrid, saying many 
Catalans characterize Madrileños as cocky, while both the Span-ish right and the independence movement represent Madrid as 
the “guardian of the essence” of Spain. While he agrees it is less 
cosmopolitan than Barcelona, he does not consider it hickish or backward, either. Overall, he says, “There’s a lot of marketing, and little serious discussion. I don’t deny that the Spanish right is the worst destroyer of my country. They’re Donald Trumps. I’m a reasonable person, and open to accepting [independence,] but I’m not convinced that it’s the correct solution.”
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. Her 
column appears on Mondays.
UF reacts to Catalan independence vote Column
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orghe’s not overly hyped. He’s a real 
person,” Grace said.
Bullard challenged the Gator 
Nation during the Tennessee game on Sept. 26 to 3,000 hours of com-munity service for the Gator Good campaign. The campaign, which 
focuses on UF’s impact beyond its 
campus, will challenge the Gator 
Nation weekly to give back to its 
community with celebrity Gators 
at the forefront.
The hours are tracked on the 
Gator Good website, where stu-dents, faculty and alumni self-re-
cord their hours. It’s based off of 
the honor system, said UF spokes-man Steve Orlando.
“When people see other people 
doing volunteer-like work like this, it encourages them to en-gage, too. And it starts to gain momentum. That’s the best thing of all,” he said. 
UF’s social media team reached 
out to Bullard to ask him to be a part of the Gator Good campaign, Orlando said. Bullard accepted 
and asked one of his favorite bar-
becue joints  to cater 120 meals to St. Francis House.
4 Rivers Smokehouse’s market-
ing coordinator Katelin Henry said the restaurant already has a rela-
tionship with St. Francis House, 
delivering 150 meals of unused food to the building every month.
“It was a no-brainer,” Henry 
said when Bullard asked the com-
pany to participate.
A week after Bullard voiced his 
challenge, 6,829 hours had been 
pledged to poverty and hunger. 
He responded in kind by visit-
ing St. Francis House, walking around, shaking hands and talk-
ing as people ate smoked chicken, pulled pork, baked beans, cole-
slaw and rolls.
It was a return to the place 
where he had spent his years at UF volunteering and reflected the kindness he received as a child.
His mother was a child bearing 
a child, the victim of rape at just 
11 years old.
She was 12 when Bullard was 
born.
Growing up, he lived on the 
Florida Sheriffs Youth Ranch, 
where the people raising him were of a different nationality and background but continued to love him regardless.
“That showed me how love 
can be the determinant factor in whether a person wins or loses,” Bullard said.
But even with all the love 
shown by Bullard and the UF com-munity, St. Francis House teeters on the edge of losing everything.
The house, serving about 300 
people a day, has seen major funding cuts from the local city and county budget. Last year, it had received $80,000 from the 
county for services, compared to 
just $24,000 this year, said Kent Vann, executive director at St. Francis House.
“I’m asking for help,” Vann 
said. “Please help. I have no other way to say it.”
And for Bullard, that help 
starts with one person, one com-
munity and one Gator Nation.
“Through me just being me 
-— not me being a celebrity, not 
even me being a former Gator -— just me being me and as a person 
who has lived through all of that, 
hopefully I can have a voice that is loud enough that will help en-courage other people to go and do 
the same thing,” Bullard said.8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
TITUS,  from pg 16,829 hours pledged after 
Bullard created challenge
TOP RIGHT:
Clint Griffin, a 60-year-old homeless man, enjoys a lunch of 
smoked chicken, baked beans and a dessert pastry Friday. He comes to St. Francis House at least once a week for food. “It’s a good place when you’re down and out, ” he said.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Rex Smart, a 60-year-old veteran, pours 4 Rivers Smokehouse barbeque sauce on smoked chicken during lunchtime at St. Fran-cis House on Friday. The meal of coleslaw, baked beans, rolls and pulled pork or smoked chicken was donated by 4 Rivers Smoke-house as a part of the Gator Good campaign to give back to the community. He said he volunteers every weekend to serve food to the homeless and understands how important it is to show the homeless he cares because he was once on the receiving end of the food line.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Sharmaine Chester, 51, chooses the smoked chicken for her meal at St. Francis House. The donated food, supplied by 4 Riv-ers Smokehouse, was accompanied by an appearance by Thad-deus Bullard, who volunteered time at the House in hand with the Gator Good campaign. “If I eat, I can smile, ” Chester said.Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
Attorney and UF alumnus John Morgan 
is for the people — and UF students.
Morgan, who founded the law firm Mor-
gan & Morgan and uses the slogan “for the 
people” in his commercials, will speak to students today in Heavener Hall, Room 140 at 6:15 p.m. The event is hosted by UF’s Entrepreneurship Club. 
Erick Rodriguez, president of the En-
trepreneurship Club at UF, said the club brings a new businessperson to speak at UF every two weeks. 
He said the club reached out to Morgan 
because he is based in Orlando and is a successful businessman.“He knows marketing well, especially to 
a large scale,” the 21-year-old business ad-ministration senior said. “So he’ll be talk-
ing about how to run a large business.”
There are more than 260 attorneys 
working for his firm, and there are about 
25 offices located around the country, Ro-
driguez said.
Aniruddh Ravindran, 23, executive vice 
president of the Entrepreneurship Club at 
UF, said Morgan, like the other speakers the club has brought this year, is not being paid to come.
“Quite a lot of them do not deny our re-
quest even if they’re not paid because they 
love to interact with students and encour-
age more entrepreneurship,” the UF bio-medical engineering graduate student said.
UF finance junior Harold Shaw said he’s 
looking forward to the event.
“I want to see how Morgan & Morgan 
was started and how they’ve grown into a multimillion-dollar law firm,” the 20-year-old said.Attorney John Morgan will speak to UF students today
He founded Morgan & MorganLOCAL
By Sara Uman
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Sunday, an elephant rode 
down West University Avenue.
It was a kinetic Asian elephant 
bike sculpture, built and ridden by local artists Lorraine Duerden and Raymond Rawls. It was spe-cifically created to lead about 50 
people in Gainesville’s first Global 
March for Elephants and Rhinos.
The Conservation Initiative 
for the Asian Elephant hosted the march, an event that occurred 
worldwide on Oct. 3 and 4, in an attempt to bring attention to 
the trouble elephants are facing 
worldwide.
Ron Chandler, the interim di-
rector of sustainability studies at 
UF and co-founder of CIFAE, said the march is leading up to the 
conservation’s campaign to set 
aside a cultural and environmen-tal world heritage site in North-east India through UNESCO.
“It’s nothing short of a geno-
cide,” Chandler said about the Asian elephant habitat loss.
Chants of, “Elephants are big 
and gray, elephants are here to stay,” rang out as the march pro-ceeded down West University Av-
enue from the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas at UF to the Hippodrome State Theatre.
Chandler worked with Kira Sil-
verman, a UF psychology senior and the volunteer coordinator of 
CIFAE, to put on the event, which took about one year to organize.
“I don’t think that a lot of 
people realize how important el-
ephants are because we don’t see them here every day,” Silverman said.
Silverman said losing ele-
phants as a species would have huge impacts on ecosystems and the climate.
“The walk was really inspir-
ing,” said Melanie Orejuela, 20, a UF health education junior, who said elephants are her favorite an-imal. “I liked the feeling of com-ing together for one cause.”Other marchers included mem-
bers of Eastside High School’s en-
vironmental club, UF alumni and  
elephant supporters from as far as St. Petersburg.
Silverman said she is glad this 
event had the opportunity to make 
an appearance in Gainesville.
“I think that so many people 
love elephants and think they are 
wonderful, magnificent, mysteri-
ous animals and admire them but 
don’t know how to get involved with them or do anything with it,” she said.
March for elephants stomps through University Avenue 
“The walk was really 
inspiring. I liked the feeling 
of coming together for one 
cause.”
Melanie Orejuela
UF health education junior
ROPED UP
On one of the first cool Sun-
days of the season, UF RecSports 
hosted Gator Open Climb on the south shore of Lake Wauburg. The 40-foot tall Alpine Tower, featuring a variety of routes to the top, was free for all students with a Gator 1 card to climb from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Normally, groups must sign up in advance to climb the tower. This event, which hap-pens every semester, invites all students to climb the tower with-out having to register in groups.
LEFT:
Alec Cronin, a 21-year-old UF environmental science senior, belays a climber at the Alpine T ower at Lake Wauburg on Sunday afternoon. Cronin said his favorite part of the tower is when people attempt to climb it blindfolded. “Watching them do it is pretty inspiring be-cause I know I could never do it, ” he said.
RIGHT:
Melanie Engle, an 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman, climbs the tower Sunday af-ternoon. It was her first time climbing anything like it. “This is awesome, ” she said.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 Bedroom / Private Bath
Quiet Park
$350 + 1/2 utilities
352-870-9282    10-5-2-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-
dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
● ● HOUSE FOR RENT ● ●2927 SW 1st Ave. Across from UF Golf Course   4-5BR/3BA, W/D,DW, cent AC/heat Only $1,775/mo No application fee, all pets ok. 352-258-0025       10-7-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
ACROSS
1 World War II
code name
11 Small matter?
15 For instance, in
Cannes
16 Early word17 Diamond rarity18 First name in
’80s-’90s
Dodgers history
19 Clean __
20 One may be
tucked
22 Emulating23 Talking Heads
bassistWeymouth
24 Part of CBS:
Abbr.
25 Co-star of
Humphrey in the
1954 film
“Sabrina”
27 Tense
29 Epson products
30 In a lather, with
“up”?
33 Last Supper
question
34 Asian __37 Heading for old
wagons
39 Traffic cops?:
Abbr.
40 Fat, e.g.42 Element used in
atomic clocks
44 Hindu retreats46 Lacking radiating
processes, asnerve cells
50 Nissan SUV
introduced in1999
51 Being in a life-
imitatingcomputer game
53 Cowboys
quarterback Tony
54 Black __55 Six-Day War
hero
57 Railroad
turnarounds
58 Green state?60 Ski area
purchase
62 Landing nos.63 Music with vocal
parts64 16-Across
speaker
65 WorkCentre
cartridge filler
DOWN
1 Decides one will
2 Game fish
3 French satellite
launcher
4 Deadly sins and
others
5 Ferris wheel
component
6 Fresno daily7 Item sometimes
redeemed
8 Outstanding
9 Secretive sort
10 “Yo!”
11 Latin 101 word12 “Sharknado”
actress
13 Café order14 Two-part country21 Clown around24 2015 Pro
Football Hall ofFame inductee
26 CD players28 “The Great
Dictator” co-starPaulette29 7/15, e.g.
31 Muscle beach
display
32 Field grazer
34 Vegetable oil
source
35 Mind
36 Turmoil
38 Musical king’s
land
41 Discount abbr.
43 Marrakesh
setting45 Antacid brand47 Spectate48 Current unit
49 Roll
51 More cautious52 Emcee’s job
56 “Good grief!”
57 Place for tick
marks
59 Initials on
L’Hommefragrance
61 Burden
By Barry C. Silk©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/03/1510/03/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 3, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDED
Up to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-ing bar/deli help. Must have reliable transp. Saturday availability required. Applications now being accepted at the 2327 NW 13th street location.    10-5-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Work for Subway!Are you looking for a great job with flexible schedules, regular opportunities for raises and opportunities for advancement? If so a job at Subway might be perfect you. We are now accepting applications from friendly people. Simply email subway4gainesville@yahoo.com and write "I'm interested!" in the subject line. Directions will follow via email.   10-5-15-5-14
Attractive & Fit Female Graduates Wanted
for South FL based modeling assignments.
You must be a college graduate, well
spoken, and mature. A good personality is
also required. PT or FT opportunity. You
must be living in or ready to move to South
FL. We can help you plan for your future:
business, health insurance, and retire-
ment guidance is part of our package. Earn
$4,000-$12,000 per month depending on
your motivation and availability. Email your
resume and physical stats to Taylor:
Ms.MiamiModels@gmail.com
10-6-15-5-14
CITT Web Services captioning has an OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Live & work in Atlanta, rent free!FT Nanny & Personal Assistant needed for Gator grad couple w/ 2 young boys. Good salary + free rent. Email geoff@352inc.com to apply.   10-7-15-5-14
2 volunteers needed to help coach girl's la-crosse team at local high school. Must have min 4 years playing experience. Call Lynn at 352-214-3840 for more info.    10-6-15-3-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 10/5-10/8 from 5-7 p.m. each day.  Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu or call 392-2010 to register.      10-5-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports. Florida's women's basketball team practiced for the ﬁ  rst time on Sunday, and coach Amanda Butler is emphasizing toughness. Read the story on pg. 16. MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Linebacker named Walter Camp recipient
Florida linebacker Antonio Morrison was named the Walter Camp National 
Defensive Player of the Week, the foundation announced on Sunday. Morrison recorded 16 tackles and half a sack in UF's 38-10 win against Ole Miss on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain speaks to ESPN's Holly Rowe following Florida's 38-10 win against Ole Miss on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n 
Stadium. McElwain became the ﬁ  rst Gators coach since Steve Spurrier to begin his ﬁ  rst season 5-0. 
TORRES TELLS IT
Saturday’s game gave 
coach Jim McElwain his foundation for build-
ing the Florida football 
program back to promi-
nence.
In just ﬁ  ve short games, McEl-
wain has already made his mark in Gainesville. 
The Gators’ 38-10 win against 
then-No. 3 Ole Miss is the type of victory that becomes the build-
ing block for a coaching regime. Nobody gave 
UF a shot against a 
vaunted Rebels team 
that has one of the 
top defensive pros-pects in the 2016 NFL Draft in Robert 
Nkemdiche, and that 
went into Tuscaloosa two weeks ago and beat Nick Saban’s then-No. 2 Alabama team 43-37.
It was a program-changing win because not only did Florida beat Ole Miss — the Gators  
dismantled the Reb-
els. 
In the process, UF 
made a statement 
to not just the rest 
of the Southeastern Conference, but the 
entire country. 
“People doubted us before 
this game. I don’t know if they’re going to doubt us ever again af-ter this game, but it doesn’t mat-ter to me,” linebacker Jarrad Da-
vis said.
McElwain has built trust with 
the players on the team that is 
essential for any winning pro-
gram. 
And he’s built that trust with 
most of the players on the team 
being recruited by previous head UF's win over Ole Miss should revitalize football program
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
A year ago, Demarcus Robinson was Flor-
ida’s lone reliable playmaker in the passing 
game.
But four games into this season, the receiv-
er seemed to fall off the map, his impact on the ﬁ  eld becoming almost nonexistent.
That changed on Saturday in No. 25 Flori-
da’s 38-10 win over No. 3 Ole Miss.
In the biggest game of Florida’s early sea-
son, Robinson came in clutch, catching eight passes for a season-high 98 yards.
In the ﬁ  rst half alone, Robinson had six 
catches and 94 yards, showing glimpses of his big-play potential that enveloped his play a year ago when he led the Gators in receptions (53), receiving yards (810) and touchdowns 
(seven).
“He did his job and caught the ball,” UF 
coach Jim McElwain said.
Robinson’s highlight performances came 
on the Gators’ second offensive series of the 
game.
After Florida went three-and-out on its 
opening drive, starting quarterback Will Grier targeted Robinson three times.
First, a 14-yard dart to the right sideline, a play where Robinson danced around before hopping out of bounds.
Second, a 4-yard gain on a screen pass 
where he showed aggression, breaking a tackle before going down.
And third, a 36-yard touchdown grab in the 
middle of the end zone with two Ole Miss de-fenders ﬁ  ghting Robinson for the ball.
“They gave us a look and he made a hell of 
a catch,” Grier said. “That’s what you got to do in big games to win.”Receiver excels against Rebels after early-season strugglesSEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
SEE RECEIVER,  PAGE 15IT'S THE FIRST THREE-
GAME CONFERENCE 
LOSING STREAK FOR 
COACH MARY WISE.
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
Coming off a gut-wrenching 
loss to Missouri on Wednesday in which it threw away a 2-0 set lead, the Florida volleyball team was looking to rebound on the road 
against Arkansas. 
It came up just short. 
In a match that swung back and 
forth, the No. 9 Gators fell 3-2 (23-25, 25-15, 19-25, 25-18, 16-18) to the Razorbacks on Sunday evening in Fayetteville. 
After winning 23 Southeastern 
Conference games in a row, it now 
feels like the Gators (9-4, 1-3 SEC) 
can’t even win one. 
The loss marks the Gators' 
ﬁ  rst three game conference losing streak since 1989, two years be-fore the arrival of head coach Mary Wise, when the team went 3-5 in conference play. 
A kill from junior right-side hit-
ter Alex Holston opened the match for the Gators, the ﬁ  rst of her team-high 16 kills during the match. 
After trading momentum swings 
throughout the ﬁ  rst set, Florida took a 23-22 lead. 
However, like in the Missouri 
game, Florida failed to put its oppo-nent away when it mattered most. Florida 
volleyball falls to Arkansas
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
He had 98 yards and a score14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
fensive side of the ball.
“I think over Spring and over Fall camp, 
we’ve really gained a confidence as an offense 
that we’ve never had before since I’ve been 
here,” offensive lineman Trip Thurman said. “We’ve always put a hand on our defense like ‘c’mon, help us out, come help us out.’ 
“But it’s awesome to have that kind of con-
trol where we can end the game with four min-utes left and get two first downs and kind of close it out.”
The defense has always been confident in 
its own abilities.
But when the fate of games rests exclusive-
ly on your shoulders every week, as it often did in recent seasons for Gator defenders, it can wear you down.
This season, though, it’s a shared responsi-
bility from both sides of the ball. And for those defenders, it makes a huge difference.
“We had the utmost confidence in them the 
whole game on the sideline,” linebacker Jarrad 
Davis said. “We saw them practice this week. If we got 
the ball in their hands anywhere close to the 
50-yard line, it was points.”
“It almost makes you feel like you’re invin-
cible.”
Now, the Gators find themselves in an un-
familiar position: ranked 11th in the country, in first place in the SEC East and with an actual chance to finish the season in Atlanta for the conference championship game.
It’s still a long way off to even begin think-
ing about such goals, and the path only gets 
tougher with road games at Missouri and LSU in the next two weeks.
But with each game, each step on the jour-
ney, the Gators are learning who they are and what they’re capable of. And the confidence 
is growing.
“Tonight kinda solidified who we were,” 
Davis said after the game. “I think the biggest learning experience was last week when we were down. That really showed us that we can fight through anything.
“We can beat anybody, but we’ve got to do 
it for four quarters. Tonight showed us that we 
can do that.”FOOTBALL,  from pg1Florida travels to Missouri to face the Tigers on Saturday
TOP LEFT:
UF cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III returns an interception 36 yards during Florida’s 38-10 win against Ole Miss on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
TOP RIGHT:
Ole Miss wide receiver Damore’ea Stringfellow is tackled by three Florida players during UF’s 38-10 win over the Rebels. 
BOTTOM LEFT:
UF defensive end CeCe Jefferson returns a fumble to the Rebels’ 1-yard line during the fourth quarter. 
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Florida tight end Jake McGee celebrates after scoring UF’s second touchdown of the game during the team’s 38-10 win over Ole Miss.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffEmily Cochrane/ Alligator Staff Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffAdded McElwain: “It worked 
out like it was designed. I wish all 
our plays worked like they were de-signed. … Will stood in there and set his feet and he delivered.”
And despite Robinson’s increased 
production against the Rebels, McEl-wain said the junior wide receiver still has room to grow.
Heading into Saturday’s contest, 
Robinson had a team-best 20 catches but just 153 receiving yards, result-ing in a meager 7.7 yards-per-catch average that ranked last among UF 
receivers with at least five catches.
His 12.3 yards per catch against 
Ole Miss was a step in the right di-
rection, but McElwain said Robin-son’s still far away from where he needs to be.
“He’s got to learn to catch it and run and not dance around,” McEl-wain said. 
“Those guys are going to come 
get ya, so you might as well try to run away from them really fast.”MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
RECEIVER,  from pg13Robinson leads the team 
in receptions, yards
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Demarcus Robinson scores a touchdown during Florida's 38-10 win over Ole Miss 
on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. coach Will Muschamp.
“What I’ll say about that is every single 
one of us is behind coach Mac and what 
he’s doing. He’s done a great job,” quarter-
back Will Grier said. 
“We love him and we’ve come together 
as a family — all the way around.”
The win over the Rebels is one that goes 
beyond the win-loss column. 
The perception around the program the 
last two years under Muschamp was one of pessimism after a disastrous 4-8 season 
in 2013 and a disappointing 7-5 season last 
year.
But right at this very moment, there is a 
lot of optimism and rightfully so. 
The atmosphere was electric in 
Gainesville on Saturday and most impor-tantly, recruits had a chance to see the type of impact McElwain has made on the pro-gram. 
Senior defensive lineman Jon Bullard 
said the win will go a long way for the pro-gram.  
“I think this was big for us, big for re-
cruiting, big for everything,” Bullard said. 
“It’s just a big win and when you win 
big games that nobody expects you to of course you’re going to pull eyes from dif-ferent areas and start getting a little bit 
more praise than we were.”
It took McElwain until just his fifth 
game to lay the foundation for the rest of 
his coaching tenure, no matter how long it 
will last. 
Now, with the Gators ranked 11th in the 
country — their highest ranking since Au-
gust 2013 — the noise and the hype will pick up and the question will start to be 
asked: Is Florida a legit national contender 
now? 
It's a question worth asking, but it's one 
without a definitive answer. 
All Florida can do is continue winning 
ball games.   
“Every opportunity you have in life, go 
take advantage of it," McElwain said. 
"And sometimes it doesn’t always turn 
out the way you want it. But there’s no reason not to think you shouldn’t be suc-cessful.” COLUMN,  from pg13
The Razorbacks (13-2, 3-0 SEC) scored 
three consecutive points to grab a 1-0 lead. 
The pendulum swung Florida’s way dur-
ing the second set as the Gators took com-
mand from the opening serve, embarking 
on a dominant 18-9 run and eventually tak-
ing the set 25-15. 
The third set saw momentum shift 
strongly towards Arkansas once again. 
Much like the Gators in the previous set, 
the Razorbacks were aggressive early and often, punching Florida in the mouth from the beginning and cruising to a 25-19 vic-tory. 
With their backs against the wall, the 
Gators were forced to respond. 
They did just that. Even throughout the first half, Florida 
was able to pull away in the fourth set thanks in part to an 11-2 run highlighted by Arkansas’ unforced errors. The Gators won handily 25-18 to force a decisive fifth set. 
A service error by Arkansas freshman li-
bero Okiana Valle combined with a kill by Florida senior middle blocker Simone Antwi put the Gators up 2-0. 
But the Razorbacks fought back. In the final set, the Gators never led by 
more than two, while Arkansas never led by more than three. Momentum continued to shift back and forth until Florida tied the match at 14-14 and later 16-16. 
Unfortunately for the Gators, the pendu-
lum swung the Razorbacks’ way when it mattered most. 
Two attack errors  by senior outside hit-
ter Živa Recek ended the Gators’ hopes of pulling out a victory and sealed the win for Arkansas. 
But this was a match where the Gators 
played well enough to win. 
Florida amassed 65 kills compared to Ar-
kansas’ 54 and had a more efficient offen-sive performance, hitting .252 as opposed to the dismal .144 put up by the Razorbacks. 
However, Florida still needs to address 
its recent inconsistency — a worrying trend it will need to reverse to get back on track.
The Gators’ next opportunity to break 
out of their current slump comes against 
Texas A&M on Friday in the O’Connell Cen-
ter.VOLLEYBALL,  from pg13Alhassan tallied a game-high eight blocks 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan swings for a kill during UF's 3-0 win 
against Ole Miss on Sept. 25 in the O'Connell Center. 
Demarcus Robinson 
game-by-game
New Mexico State: 
6 catches, 34 yards
East Carolina: 
5 catches, 55 yards, touchdown
Kentucky: 
3 catches, 16 yards
Tennessee: 
6 catches, 48 yards
Ole Miss: 
8 catches, 98 yards, touchdown16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Thanks to some unusual train-
ing methods, any school facing the 
Florida women’s basketball team this season would be wise to think better of starting a scrap with the 
Gators.
During the offseason, coach 
Amanda Butler made it a point to 
get her team out of its comfort zone. 
In addition to taking them on a 
team “attack,” because they “never wanna retreat,” Butler also had the team to take boxing lessons. 
“We want to be tough,” she said. 
“We want to do everything we 
can to cultivate toughness and if 
you’ve ever had the experience of boxing, it’s not just physical tough-ness … there’s stamina and endur-ance and skill and technique that is way beyond how hard can I hit somebody.” 
Toughness is one of several ar-
eas UF will need to address to be competitive this year, especially af-ter coming off a 13-17 record that in-cluded a commanding defeat at the hands of Auburn in the first round of the Southeastern Conference tournament by the score of 71-49.
That being said, Butler is quick 
to point out that last season is in the 
past and, this team is focused on the 
present.
“I think a lot of people are gonna make the mistake of forming opin-ions about our team based on last 
season."
In order to improve, one area 
that both Butler and sophomore 
forward Haley Lorenzen brought up was finishing, albeit in two different ways. 
For Butler, the focus was on fin-
ishing in close games. 
“There were a lot of close losses 
last year, and losses are losses, but I think that returning group knows how close they were to having a much, much better season,” Butler said. 
Florida lost five games last year 
by a total of six points or less. Had the Gators finished those games on the winning side, they would have ended the season with a more re-spectable 18-12 record. 
“I think you’re gonna see a much 
different team — new and improved — that is unwilling to lose close ball games,” Butler added.
Lorenzen, on the other hand, 
felt that the Gators needed to follow through with their preparation for games. According to her, there were too many times last year when the team had terrific practices but then 
flopped in games. 
“We need to be able to take what 
we practice and put it on the court,” 
Lorenzen said. “That was a big problem for us last year. We would have great practices and then it just wouldn’t transfer always back onto the court.”
The team’s preparation officially 
started on Sunday when the Gators held their first official practice. 
The team has just more than a 
month to work on those aspects of its game, among others, before fac-ing Temple in the season opener on Friday, Nov. 13.
Unsurprisingly, Butler feels that 
this team will be ready to hit the 
hardwood come game time. Some-
what surprisingly, she has some lofty expectations considering where this team was a year ago. Clearly, though, she’s truly embraced that this team is “new and improved.”
“I think collectively, this group 
has a chance to be one of the best teams that’s ever played here,” she 
said.
“I really believe that.”UF focused on improving toughness heading into season
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF women's basketball coach Amanda Butler does the Gator Chomp after being introduced at 
Gators Madness on Friday at the O'Connell Center. 
