We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 6 MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
UF soccer defeats No. 1 FSU at 
home
It was the ﬁ  rst time the Gators defeated a 
top-ranked team since 1998, pg 13.
Performers audition for Hoggetowne Medieval 
Faire
Rehearsals begin in the next two weeks, pg. 9
Sigma Kappa to demolish old house
A new one will be built, pg. 5Traditional and modern dance fuse
The Asian American Student Assembly hosted 
“Breakthough. Check out our photo story, pg. 8
THEY ALSO PROTESTED A 
FORMER MAYOR.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
On Saturday morning, former 
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan 
arrived at the Best Western Gateway Grand Hotel to receive an award for her work in public ofﬁ  ce.
But before the ceremony, demon-
strators stood down the street with signs in hand to protest the city’s biomass power plant and Hanrahan, the mayor who approved it.
“We don’t understand why Pe-
geen Hanrahan is getting this award when…(as) a commissioner and a mayor, (she) did not really protect 
our city,” said Gainesville resident 
Maria Parsons, wearing a gas mask and gloves as symbols of protection from the toxins she said the biomass plant emits.
With the presentation of the 
eponymous award, The Friends of Susan B. Anthony hailed Hanrahan as a civic activist, public servant and 
environmental advocate whose bat-
tle with breast cancer and the adver-sity she faced while in ofﬁ  ce made her a role model to all.
“(Hanrahan) has such a genuine 
love for the community and for the state, and it’s been reﬂ  ected in a mil-lion organizational responsibilities in a civic life that every woman in this 
community could look at and model Gainesville residents protest biomass plant
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Maria Parsons, a Gainesville resident, protests at the corner of Northwest 39th Avenue and Northwest 97th Boulevard on Saturday. Her 
gas mask and gloves symbolize the pollution she said the biomass plant causes.
 SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 4
STUDENTS HAVE CITED OUT-
LOOK TROUBLES.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Students trying to access their UF web-
mail accounts from the Outlook mobile app 
will receive an email saying their access has been denied.
Christine Calvert, a UF business manage-
ment freshman, was one of those students.
Like other students, she can’t sync her 
UF Outlook email account with the Outlook app.  
But UF spokesman Steve Orlando said 
the GatorCloud system is fully operational, and students should sync their emails to the built-in email apps on their phones.
“In addition to the built-in applications, alternative applications are available from the app store that can be downloaded to a smartphone,” he wrote in an email. “At this time, some of these alternatives do not meet UF privacy and security standards and are 
blocked. The Outlook app for IOS and Android is one 
such application.”
The university retired 
its old email system, Web-
Mail 2.0, on March 15, according to Gator Times’ website. The new sys-
tem, GatorCloud, features emailing, texting, video 
messaging, a calendar and ﬁ  le sharing.
Calvert said she gave up on using the 
Outlook app after receiving the error mes-sage.
“It’s a little annoying because I have to UF seeks remedies for email
SEE GATORCLOUD,  PAGE 4STATE
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
While Tropical Storm Erika is no longer a 
threat, Floridians shouldn’t get too excited.
Though most of the storm died out Satur-
day, people are still advised to prepare for last-ing effects, such as heavy rain and ﬂ  ooding.
The National Hurricane Center forecasted 
three to ﬁ  ve inches of rainfall over southern and central Florida beginning Sunday. There is also a chance of gusty winds over southern Florida.
The change in Erika came after Florida 
Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency 
Friday covering every county in preparation 
for the storm.
Alachua County Emergency Management 
Assistant Director Jeff Bielling wrote in an email that people planning to stay at home in the event of a hurricane should have a three- to ﬁ  ve-day supply of nonperishable food and water, a 30-day supply of needed medications, a battery-powered radio, batteries, ﬂ  ashlights and pet supplies.
UF Emergency Manager Kenneth Allen 
said Erika serves as a good opportunity for Gainesville residents to ensure they’re pre-
pared for any future hurricane.
“We always encourage everybody to have 
a plan, have a kit and be informed,” Allen said.Erika’s gone, storms remain
Orlando
“W e always encourage everybody 
to have a plan, have a kit and be 
informed.”
Kenneth Allen 
UF Emergency ManagerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UFIC Study Abroad Fair
From 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Wednesday, Sept. 16 on the 
Plaza of the Americas the UF 
International Center (UFIC) invites students and faculty to learn about current study-
abroad programs. At the UF 
study-abroad fair, students can learn more about the vast array of study-abroad options avail-able to them. UF study-abroad 
program directors, indepen-
dent program providers and former study-abroad students will be available to share their 
international experiences at 
the fair. The UF International Center staff will be available to explain the application process and help students with the first 
steps to find the right program 
for them. Other universities and institutions that offer UF-approved study-abroad pro-
grams and internships will also 
be available to help students navigate their way through the many study-abroad opportuni-ties. For additional informa-
tion about the study-abroad 
fair, visit ufic.ufl.edu or con-tact Alexis Weisman at aweis-man@ufic.ufl.edu.
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, 
or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. 
Judges will award a first, sec-
ond and third place in each of three categories. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize winners 
will receive $50 each and 
third-prize winners will re-ceive $25 each. Total prizes to be awarded equal $525. The 
first category, study-abroad 
and service learning students (UF-sponsored), is open to all current students who have tak-en part in a UF study-abroad 
program in 2014 or 2015, as 
well as students who partici-pated in a UF-approved ser-vice learning program abroad. 
Photographs must have been 
taken during a trip abroad and reflect the competition theme of “global culture.”The second category, interna-
tional students, scholars and employees (F-1, J-1, H-1B, TN, 
E-3, O-1), is open to all cur-
rent UF international students, 
scholars, faculty and employ-ees on visas listed above. Photographs must have been taken anywhere in the U.S. 
in 2014 or 2015, meeting the 
theme of “global culture.”The final category, faculty, staff and alumni, is open to all 
current or retired UF faculty 
and staff, as well as UF alumni. Photographs must have been taken abroad in 2014 or 2015 and reflect the theme of “glob-
al culture.” Submission period 
will be open until Oct. 9. For more information, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.
html or email mcardec@ufic.
ufl.edu.
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement with Cuba
The Center for Latin American 
Studies, UF Cuba Program, International Center and IFAS invite you to attend a work-
shop on academic engage-
ment with Cuba from 3 to 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 29 at the UF International Center. The workshop is free and open 
to the public, but registration 
is required. To reserve your seat, please visit EventBrite.com and search for Workshop 
on Academic Engagement with 
Cuba.
Free Tuesday Night Stand Up 
Comedy
Free stand up comedy featur-
ing UF students and alumni and Gainesville locals will be every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at 
Market Street Pub and Cabaret 
downtown. The show features professional comedians and amateur comics alike tearing up the stage. Feeling funny? 
Show up before 9 p.m. and 
sign up for our comedy open mic. We also have a comedy workshop at 8 p.m. hosted by 
local pros. Visit our Facebook 
page at facebook.com/gaines-villecomedyshowcase.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Ex-Subway ad executive says 
he didn't know of Fogle's sex crimes
NEW YORK (THE ASSOCIATED 
PRESS) — A former executive who was in charge of Subway's advertising said he wasn't 
aware of pitchman Jared Fogle's 
criminal sexual conduct with 
minors.Jeff Moody, who was CEO of the Subway Franchisee Advertising 
Fund Trust, said in a statement 
Friday that he was "shocked" to 
learn of the "deplorable criminal sexual behavior with minors" to which Fogle has agreed to plead guilty.Moody's statement added that "like any decent human being" he is "repulsed" by it. He said he learned this summer about the allegations against Fogle, whose relationship with the sandwich chain has ended.Attorney Robert Beasley, rep-resenting former Subway fran-chisee Cindy Mills, has said Mills shared her concerns about Fogle's behavior with Moody in 2008. He also said Mills shared her concerns with a regional Subway contact in Florida, where she is based.Beasley didn't respond to calls Friday. Earlier in the day, he said Mills didn't want to speak anymore.Fogle, who was widely known as Jared or as the Subway Guy, on Aug. 19 agreed to plead guilty to allegations that he paid for sex with girls as young as 16 and received child pornogra-phy. The agreement with Fogle released by prosecutors said he will pay $1.4 million in restitu-tion to 14 minor victims, with each victim receiving $100,000.The government agreed not to seek a sentence of more than 12.5 years in prison, and Fogle agreed not to ask for less than five years.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 5
HIGH  88° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca KravetzMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
NORTH-CENTRAL 
FLORIDA LAKES 
ARE AT RISK.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Apollo, a 1-year-old boxer, loves 
to swim in warm water.
“He’s a fish,” said Kathy Silva, a 
UF chemical engineering senior and 
Apollo’s owner. “He wants to be in water forever.”
But as summer temperatures rise, 
north-central Florida lakes are sus-ceptible to a rare pathogen, said Erica Goss, a UF Institute of Food and Agri-cultural Sciences researcher.
The UF plant pathology assistant 
professor said the pathogen, called Pythium insidiosum, is a microscop-ic, fungus-like organism that swims in search of hosts such as dogs and 
horses. 
It then infects its host with pythio-
sis, a disease that can cause intesti-
nal swelling if swallowed and a skin infection if the animal swims in an 
infected lake without being bathed 
afterward, Goss said.
“We heard cases of people’s dogs 
getting it in the Gainesville area, so 
we thought, ‘Well, it’s probably out 
there, but no one’s ever looked,’” she said. 
“We started sampling on campus 
and found it right away,” she said.
Last summer, Goss’s research as-
sistant and master’s student Jackson Presser sampled a broader area of North Florida, discovering the organ-
ism in all 25 lakes he tested.
Goss said that as it’s gotten hotter, 
lakes have become more susceptible 
to the pathogen.
“The pathogen is active when it’s 
hot,” Goss said. “It likes the swampy, warm, stagnant water.”
Silva said she plans on ordering 
a pythiosis vaccine for Apollo and 
bathing him after he swims, but she 
will not ban him from going in lakes.
“I don’t want to limit how excited 
and happy he gets,” the 23-year-old said.UF researchers ﬁ  nd animal pathogen in Gainesville lakes
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Riley, a 6-year-old Irish setter and German shepherd mix, retrieves a tennis ball in a man-made 
pond at Dogwood Park on Wednesday. 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Admiring a sunrise splashed 
across the Oklahoma sky is the last 
thing Bridget Anderson remembers before she nearly died.  
Anderson, who graduated from 
UF in May, was riding across the country on her bike when she and fellow rider and UF alumnus Patrick Wanninkhof were hit by a distracted driver July 30.
“I turned around to tell him some-
thing, and I whipped my head back, and I didn’t even realize how beauti-ful the sunrise was,” she said.
Anderson, 22, and Wanninkhof, 
25, were riding past miles of plains, deep in conversation about Bike & Build, a nonprofit organization that plans cross-country bike trips during which participants build affordable housing.
Then they were hit.Sarah Morris, 34, admitted to be-
ing distracted by her phone when she veered off the highway and hit them, according to an Oklahoma Highway Patrol report.
Anderson said she remembers 
waking up on the side of the road, screaming in pain.
She said her only comfort was 
Kathy Fawcett, a driver who had wit-
nessed the accident, telling her she 
would be OK.
“I put her phone up to her ear so 
her mom could talk to her, ‘cause I didn’t know if she was going to make it,” Fawcett, 44, said.
As Fawcett stayed with Anderson, 
her husband, Roger Fawcett, was with Wanninkhof.
“He was breathing,” Roger Faw-
cett, 52, said. “I put my hand on his chest to let him know that I was there. I don’t know if he knew or not.”
Wanninkhof was pronounced 
dead at the scene.
Anderson was airlifted to Okla-
homa University Medical Center, 
where they found she fractured her 
spine, damaged the nerves in her left foot and severed her left femoral ar-tery, which supplies blood to the leg, among other injuries.
Anderson said Kathy and Roger 
Fawcett were her “roadside angels.”
“There’s potential that they saved 
my life,” she said.
•   •   •
Anderson underwent eight sur-
geries since the accident. The trip was the hardest thing she’s done in her life, she said, but also the best.
“You see beautiful things that 
you didn’t even know existed in the country, and you meet people from 
all different communities that are just 
so excited to meet you,” she said.
She and her fellow riders promot-
ed affordable housing as they rode 
from Maine to California.
Wanninkhof was passionate 
about alleviating poverty, Anderson said. He taught in the Bronx through Teach for America.
“He could tell the difference be-
tween a student who came from a supportive home environment ver-sus a student who didn’t have a very stable home environment or maybe not even have a home to go home to, and he just hated how unfair that was,” she said.
Wanninkhof graduated in 2012 
with a degree in materials engineer-
ing, according to his Bike & Build on-
line profile.  
“Bicycling is in my blood,” he wrote there.
Anderson said she didn’t know 
Wanninkhof before the trip, but she remembers him as a leader with a passion for helping others.She said her favorite memory of 
him is when he stunned everyone with beatboxing skills at a bar in Springfield, Missouri.
“He was kind of full of surprises like that,” she said.  
•   •   •
Lizzy Shebanek, a UF business 
management graduate student and friend of Anderson’s, contacted her family about starting a donation page.
The GoFundMe page went up 
Aug. 24 and has raised $13,193 as of press time. The original goal was $5,000.
“I was really overwhelmed,” An-
derson said. “A lot of happy tears.”
Too weak to return to Florida, An-
derson will be transferred to a reha-bilitation hospital in Oklahoma.
•   •   •
Her sister, Ariel Anderson, said 
she is proud of her progress. Bridget Anderson was able to walk with as-sistance last week for the first time since the accident.
“She’s been positive and strong 
and resilient throughout the whole thing,” said Ariel Anderson, a UF medical student.
Ariel Anderson, 26, is in Santa 
Barbara, California, today to rep-resent her sister at Bike & Build’s wheel-dipping ceremony, where she said riders dip their back tires in the 
Atlantic Ocean before the start of a 
trip and dip their front tires in the Pa-cific Ocean once the trip ends.
Bridget Anderson said that al-
though doctors told her she’d be able to walk again, she doesn’t know if she’ll be able to bike.
She said she’s prepared to do 
whatever it takes to be as active as 
she was before.
“I just have to put my full heart 
into it, and I’m fully ready to do 
that,” she said.UF alumna recovers after bike accident, remembers friend
Courtesy to the Alligator
Bridget Anderson, a UF graduate, stands on the World War I Memorial 
Bridge in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, during her bike trip. 
A STUDENT RECOGNIZED THEM 
FROM A UF ALERT.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested three men Fri-
day evening after they reportedly robbed a taxi 
driver at gunpoint.
About 4 p.m. Friday, Schammi Joseph, 19, drove Demarkus Williams and Deon Roberts 
to the 2500 block of Southwest 14th Drive in 
search of a victim, according to a police report.
Joseph stayed in the car while Williams, 
19, and Roberts, 22, posed as customers to a Gainesville taxi driver, according to the report.
They entered Michael Martin’s cab and 
showed him a 9-mm handgun, according to the report.
Martin, 40, said he tried to negotiate with 
the men before Roberts hit him in the face with the gun.
An armed home invader robbed Martin 13 
years ago, and after handing Roberts money, he decided to stand up for himself.
“Not this time, man,” Martin said. “I’m not 
letting you go this time.”
Martin said he ran his Chevrolet Uplander 
van into Roberts, who dropped the cash and gun before lying on the ground for about two minutes. Roberts caught a ride from an unsus-
pecting driver to UF Health, but changed his mind before receiving any treatment and re-united with the other two men, according to 
the report.
Police found the men after a student re-
ceived a UF Alert and spotted the getaway ve-hicle.
Police arrested the men on charges of rob-
bery with a firearm and criminal conspiracy. Authorities transported the men to the Alach-ua County Jail, where they remain as of press 
time in lieu of $50,000 bonds.Police arrest men for taxi robbery, driver held at gun point 
open up Safari every time I want to check 
my email,” the 18-year-old said.
An application that will work with Ga-
torCloud is the Outlook Web Access Devices app for iPhone and Andriod, Orlando said. 
However, he recommends using the built-in 
email apps.
For UF nursing senior Kristin Marhee, the 
Outlook app isn’t a problem because she’s still using WebMail 2.0.
“I’m still, like, in the stone age,” the 
21-year-old said.
Marhee said she tried to switch over to 
GatorCloud in March but got a message say-
ing she had missed her migration date and 
that she would be migrated automatically later. That date still has not come.
“I feel like I’ve found some proverbial wormhole in the system,” she said.
Orlando said all students should be mi-
grated to GatorCloud at this time, and stu-dents should contact the UF computing help desk if they experience difficulty migrating.
If students are worried they might miss 
out on UF Alerts sent to their UF emails, there are other avenues to see them, said 
University Police emergency manager Ken-
neth Allen.
“We certainly provide UF Alerts through 
multiple platforms,” he said. “The UF Alerts are available on social media, on the UFPD homepage, as well as through text messag-ing.”
Orlando said UF is currently working with 
Microsoft to resolve the privacy and security 
issues associated with the Outlook app.
“It is expected that the app will be avail-
able for general use near the end of the cal-
endar year 2015 if not sooner,” he said.GATORCLOUD,  from pg 1UF is working to resolve issues
themselves after,” said Donna Waller, who presented the award.
Before noon, protesters waved signs and 
cheered at passing cars. To them, Hanra-han’s role as one of the seven city officials 
who approved the 30-year biomass contract 
with Gainesville Renewable Energy Center — which contributed to GRU rates being among the highest in the state — was not one that deserved an award.
Harold Saive, a protester outside the event,  
said the biomass harms the environment and is not environmentally sustainable.
“We cannot hope to replenish enough for-
est to make up for the current biomass that’s now being burnt,” the 72-year-old Gainesville resident said. “Our future is at risk.”
Hanrahan thanked those who supported her throughout her political career, but did not address the protesters outside. After the event, she said she did not see the protesters, who had left before the start of the ceremony.
“Many of the people who are continuing to 
try to keep (the biomass plant) as a point of 
contention are not people who were active in 
the (negotiating) process,” she said after the conclusion of the ceremony.
Hanrahan said she still supports the bio-
mass plant, which she believes has become a flashpoint in city government that is hamper-ing efforts to renegotiate the biomass contract with GREC.
“I think that if I were in a position of au-
thority, I would work to try to find some changes in the contract or other concessions that would make sense,” she said. “I don’t think the sort of hostile atmosphere that’s been created is facilitating that though.”PROTEST,  from pg 1Mayor did not address protestMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
LOCAL
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Outside Thrift 5 on Main 
Street, students struggled to 
lift antique furniture, wooden 
chairs and old couches into 
trucks and cars parked on the street.
Before closing its doors 
for the final time Sunday, the Gainesville thrift store hosted a weekend-long sale in hopes of getting rid of all its items. 
All final proceeds went to 
the Pledge 5 Foundation, a local nonprofit dedicated to increas-ing the number of volunteers in the community.
Jason Bowman, Pledge 5 
Foundation president and CEO, said the decision to close came this week after the organization failed to resolve a leasing agree-
ment.
“We had no choice but to 
shut down,” Bowman said of the 
store, which combined two pre-
vious locations when it opened 
in January. 
“Even though business has 
been the best it’s ever been, we thought the owners would be 
more flexible when we signed. 
We thought we’d have more capital,” he said.
The store closed in April, 
reopened in July and is now closed for good, Bowman said.
He said the organization 
faced financial difficulties when it opened the new location at 
the same time as Pledge 5’s 
other new project, Community Overdrive, a program that re-wards volunteer opportunities 
with credit toward purchasing a 
used car.
“Both stores opened on the 
same day, within 24 hours, so we closed (Thrift 5) down be-
cause we didn’t have the re-sources (to keep both stores 
open),” Bowman said.
The Community Overdrive 
project will now be Pledge 5’s first priority, he said.
Benjamin Elliot, 26, stopped 
by Sunday to take advantage of 
the sales.  
“There’s so many old kitchen 
stuff, old electronics,” he said, 
strolling through the aisle laden 
with old televisions and China 
sets. 
Elliot, a former UF student 
who received his bachelor’s de-gree in telecommunication and 
master’s degree in mass com-
munication, said he saw the sale as an opportunity to fill his new place.
Even though Thrift 5 closed, 
Bowman said Gator Stompin’, the traditional yearly pub crawl organized by Pledge 5, is still 
going to happen despite the or-
ganization’s previous debt to vendors, businesses and em-ployees that have participated 
in the past.
While Bowman said he is 
looking into selling the Gator 
Stompin’ event name, his focus this weekend was to make a fi-
nal profit from the Thrift 5 store.
“We hope there’s nothing 
left,” he said, smiling.
“Are you leaving already?” a 
customer asked him as he talked 
about the everything-must-go sale.
“We’re not opening another 
store,” Bowman said. “Maybe 
one year from now, we’ll try 
this again.”Thrift 5 closes, 
Gator Stompin’ will 
still continueBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Members of one of Sorority 
Row’s oldest houses are getting 
an upgrade.
The Sigma Kappa Sorority’s 
11,000-square-foot house, located at 1108 E. Panhellenic Drive, will be demolished and rebuilt, said 
Jennifer Lyons, president of UF’s 
Chapter Sigma Kappa Beta Tau Housing Corporation. 
With 25,000 square feet, it will 
house 66 sisters, a house director 
and two guests in dorm-style and 
suite-style rooms.
The house will cost between 
$5 million and $6 million to build, 
Lyons said. The corporation man-
ages the house and property.
The new three-story brick 
house will be about the same size as Delta Delta Delta Sorority’s 
house and will feature kitchen-
ettes on every floor.
There will also be a craft room 
that could get messy, said UF’s 
Sigma Kappa president, Erica 
Baker.
“It’s basically to keep the rest 
of the house clean,” the 22-year-old said. “You can do whatever 
you want in that room so long as 
it stays in that room.”
In December, the 32 members 
who lived in the house were told 
they would need to move out in 
May, Baker said. Everyone had to find her own place to stay for the academic year.
The sorority’s new house will 
be finished in July or August, be-fore recruitment next Fall, Lyons said.  
The construction had no effect 
on recruitment, and 89 new mem-bers joined last week, Baker said.
“Our rates were actually better 
than we’ve ever had,” she said.
Recruitment took place at the 
Hilton, located at 1714 SW 34th St., Baker said.
Until the new house is built, 
Baker said UF’s Sigma Kappa 
chapter still wants to make sure 
sisters have a space that is their own.
The chapter is renting a room 
at Jackson Square Condomini-ums, which is located at 325 NW 14th St., near Midtown. 
They will use the room as a 
common area, similar to their old 
house’s living room, Baker said.
To offset building costs, Sig-
ma Kappa’s housing corporation 
board raised the money — enough 
for a down payment, Lyons said.  
She declined to disclose how 
much the down payment was.
“Dues will not have to go up, which is a huge blessing for us,” 
Baker said.
Members pay $700 per se-
mester in dues plus rent if they 
choose to live in the house. Some 
Sigma Kappa residents will see an increase in rent.
While the new house will be 
an upgrade, some keepsakes from 
the old house are staying.
“There’s an original UF build-
ing number we’ll be taking to the 
new house,” Lyons said.
Baker said she can’t wait for 
the house to be finished.
“It’ll be the biggest,” she said. 
“It’s going to be beautiful.”Sigma Kappa to demolish old house
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
The Sigma Kappa Sorority house sits at 1108 E. Panhellenic Drive. The 
11,000-square-foot house will be rebuilt more than twice its original size.
Courtesy to the Alligator
This rendering features the new Sigma Kappa house, which will also reside at 1108 E. Panhellenic Drive.
A new one will be built
“W e had no choice but to shut 
down ... W e thought we’d 
have more capital.”
Jason Bowman 
Pledge 5 Foundation 
president and CEOThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnAshley Madison 
leaks, no winners 
in the aftermath
Last Friday, Noel Biderman, CEO of Avid Life Media Inc. — 
the parent company of Ashley Madison — stepped down from his position. Biderman’s resignation arrived in the wake of the third wave of leaks from the extramarital-af-fairs website.
For those somehow out of the loop, Ashley Madison is a 
dating service that promotes extramarital affairs. Following the discovery that the website had kept user information even after some users paid to have it deleted, a collective of hackers call-ing themselves “Impact Team” stole user data, employee email exchanges and more from the website back in July. Impact Team then threatened to release the information it had collected unless Ashley Madison ceased operations. It didn’t shake out that way.
The personal nature of the data contained within the leaks 
has — like whirlwind stories are wont to do — captivated both the U.S. and the world at large, emitting a ripple effect felt by multiple segments of society. In yet another instance of politi-cians behaving poorly, multiple accounts (more than 15,000, ac-cording to The Hill) were identiﬁ  ed as government and military email addresses. Josh Duggar’s reputation as a hypocritical prac-titioner of Christian dogma was reinforced when multiple emails registered to him were found.
Putting it mildly, a lot of people’s lives were negatively af-
fected by the leak. For many Internet users not implicated by it, the leak is seen as justice being properly dispensed. In comment sections, jokes about divorce lawyers making bank and anticipa-tion for cheaters being found out characterize much of the dia-logue on the matter.
As we see it, there is not a single party involved in this de-
bacle that comes out of it looking like an angel. As a business endeavor, Ashley Madison is inherently manipulative, selling lonely and unhappy men the fantasy of a service that would en-
able them to ﬁ  nd sexual gratiﬁ  cation. In reality, of the 35 million 
proﬁ  les exposed by the leak, only 5 million belonged to women, a dismal number the company went to great lengths to conceal.
The hackers, despite purportedly operating under the Robin 
Hood-like intention of exposing Ashley Madison as a corrupt in-stitution, have shattered the lives of many. Is cheating on your partner — or in the case of most Ashley Madison users, attempt-ing to cheat — a scuzzy, morally selﬁ  sh thing to do? Beyond a shadow of a doubt. Just because individuals who used Ashley 
Madison were operating in a morally gray area does not mean 
they deserved to have their privacy ripped away from them. In leaking the data Ashley Madison claimed they had deleted, the hackers have proved to be no better than the very people they decried.
The people not directly involved may be the worst of all. The 
mob mentality that has emerged from news coverage of this story has been equal parts enlightening and horrifying. We have yet to read a story from a major news source that truly discusses the 
world we now live in, wherein one’s personal information can be 
held hostage at the whims of hackers and corporate executives. Neither the news nor commenters have yet to really touch upon the frightening implications of the leak and are instead content to gawk and leer at those who had the bad luck to have their private details become available to the Internet.
Although no one will admit it, this Ashley Madison affair is 
much bigger than poor schmucks who looked for love in all the wrong places.Larry Lessig: legitimate presidential candidate?
The most interesting storyline of the 2016 Democratic primary is not how a former cabinet secretary cleaned her computer server — “like with a cloth or something” — or the ﬂ  amboyant socialist steadily 
creeping upward in the polls. 
In my eyes, the most fascinating story on the 
left is the candidacy of Larry Lessig.
A little background information: Larry Lessig 
is an academic rock star. The bespectacled book-worm has degrees from the University of Pennsyl-vania, University of Cambridge and Yale Law School. Despite running in the Democratic primary, he has served as a law clerk for two of the most staunchly conservative jurists in 
America: Judge Richard Posner and Associate Justice Anto-
nin Scalia. Lessig has held professorships at Stanford Law School, University of Chicago and currently Harvard Univer-sity, where his areas of specialty have been business ethics, the Internet and intellectual property. Needless to say, Lessig is remarkably brilliant.
Garnering about one percent in the polls, Lessig’s numbers 
can only go up. Just think about it: After the ﬁ  rst Democratic debate in October, he can easily spread his campaign mes-
sage, excite a troubled nation, gain more name recognition, 
rally the optimistic youth of the nation and double his polling numbers to a whopping two or even three percent of the vote!
Like many on the left, his casus belli is curtailing the cor-
rosive effects of the Supreme Court’s ruling in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, a decision prohibiting the government from regulating the political spending of corpora-tions and unions. Lessig has made the controversy behind the Citizens United case the deﬁ  ning issue of his campaign. 
Curtailing campaign spending is literally Lessig’s sole ambi-
tion. Lessig wants to run for the highest ofﬁ  ce in the land and become the most powerful person in the country just to accomplish one task. After Lessig has added a constitution-al amendment that undoes the Citizens United decision, he plans on resigning from ofﬁ  ce. He will forgo the presidency and make his vice president the new president.  
On the face of it, this is a strangely innovative strategy. I do not believe a presidential candidate has ever wanted to run for ofﬁ  ce with high hopes of resign-ing. A Lessig ticket would essentially backdoor his vice president into the presidency.
Commentators and Lessig himself have ﬂ  oated 
possible VP — and, therefore, future presidential — picks. Vice President Joe Biden’s name has been brought up. And Elizabeth Warren, a for-mer Harvard Law professor, is mentioned at great length. The Lessig-Warren ticket would be every progressive’s dream.
Despite the insane brilliance of the campaign strategy 
and the man himself, Lessig’s campaign is remarkably im-practical. Americans want more from their president than 
just hammering home one policy point. A president must be 
an expert on many issues, not just one. I can imagine the ﬁ  rst Democratic debate being incredibly awkward for Les-sig. When asked about foreign policy, pressing social issues, economic policy or any other noncampaign-spending topic, Lessig would either shrug his shoulders and say “pass” or retort that every single political issue boils down to campaign spending even when it doesn’t.
The crux of Lessig’s campaign is the belief that if elected, 
he would have a mandate to change the constitution and campaign-spending law. However, whether Lessig is elected president or not, the president has no such mandate. The 2016 presidential election year is also a congressional election year. Each senator and congressperson has a mandate from their constituents. Congress’ 535 mandates on a plurality of issues will inevitably conﬂ  ict with the one mandate on the one issue if Lessig becomes president. The American system does not allow the president to get what he wants just be-
cause he was elected.
Lessig’s one-trick-pony candidacy is truly a novel ap-
proach to running for ofﬁ  ce. Unfortunately, the plan is so 
novel that it cannot work. But the experiment is substantively fascinating and more thoughtful than anything else coming out of the Democratic primary. 
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 In the summer 
of 2015, follow-ing my first year 
of law school at 
IU-Blooming-
ton, I was fortunate enough to be se-
lected for an intern-
ship in Israel with Shurat HaDin, Is-rael Law Center. As a Marine Corps veteran, my 
unit confronted terrorists in 
Afghanistan, and when I re-turned home, I learned about groups that fight terrorism in 
different ways. Shurat HaDin 
is a nongovernmental Israeli organization with the stated mission of bankrupting terror — one lawsuit at a time.
The organization recently 
won a milestone judgment in the U.S. federal court for more than $600 million for 
victims of terror during the 
second intifada in Israel.
Having spent the sum-
mer in Israel, I gained a very personal perspective on why 
our ally opposes President 
Obama’s proposed nuclear deal with Iran.
No one I have met said 
they believed the president is wrong for wishing to avoid war. All of the Israelis I have encountered are desperately hoping to avoid war as well.
The conflict is, after all, in 
their backyard. 
However, most said they 
believed relieving pressure 
before our opposition makes 
meaningful concessions only ensures Iran will become a stronger, more economically stable and nuclear-armed foe 
in the future.
The goal of the sanctions 
against Iran was never to 
starve the Iranian people, 
but rather to starve the Ira-
nian regime of its appetite for aggression. The ultimate ex-pression of that aggression is the desire to develop a nucle-
ar weapon — but even more 
fundamental is the continued refusal to recognize Israel’s right to exist.
It remains the stated goal 
of Iranian leaders to wipe Is-rael off the map. We can get rhetorically lost in the weeds of the nuclear question, but 
until, at the very minimum, 
Iran renounces its vow to destroy Israel, and “death to America” ceases to be an 
obligatory chant for Iranian 
politicians and clerics, we should not delude ourselves into believing any agreement will be honored.
How can we ask 
Israel to trust the intentions of a na-tion that refuses to 
recognize Israel’s 
existence, arms its closest enemies and unabashedly 
calls for its destruction? If I 
had not lived in the Middle 
East and seen the landscape with my own eyes, perhaps I, too, would be naive to the 
plight of Israel and to the de-
structive and unrelenting na-ture of its enemies.
Israel is a strong nation, 
but too many American lead-ers fail from afar to grasp the existential threat Israel faces 
every day. I urge my genera-
tional contemporaries to be-come active and let their rep-resentatives know this deal is not in the best interest of 
the U.S. or Israel. Far from 
avoiding conflict, the current nuclear proposal ensures future generations will be 
forced to engage a stronger, 
more financially secure and potentially nuclear aggressor.
War can be averted, but 
not if our resolve weakens 
and we lift sanctions before 
Iran’s leaders are truly moti-vated to abandon their path of aggression.
Jamal Allen Sowell is 
a former UF Student Body president and employee. He is currently attending law school at Indiana University.Reflecting on the Iran 
nuclear deal as a young 
Marine veteran Guest column
Jamal 
Allen Sowell
Speaking OutEvery once in a while, a website or ser-vice finds a new creepy way of gath-ering data online, and it seems earth-
shattering until the next stalkerish way 
of data collection emerges. In an ideal 
world, none of this would come as a surprise, as everyone would actually read the terms 
and conditions when they agree to things 
— or at least those pesky updates sent out ahead of major changes to a site.
But of course, everyone just clicks accept or deletes 
the email and goes about socializing as normal. There’s 
often a huge uproar when Facebook changes its layout, 
but behind-the-scenes privacy tweaks get much less attention. It’s partly due to how they are presented, namely, in a less user-friendly way. 
Customers deserve a clearer outline of exactly what 
they are agreeing to and the ability to pick and choose which parts of their lives to give up to Internet giants. While Facebook does allow users to choose what they share when they introduce new features, it often au-
tomatically adjusts the default settings. This, unfortu-
nately, can lead to unintentional sharing of informa-tion.
Facebook recently fired an intern who created an 
app called Marauder’s Map, which tracked the loca-tions of Facebook friends by putting each location where they had sent messages on a map. 
This was the first time many people had heard about 
the location tracking that goes on within the messenger 
app. It’s not a feature that is completely integral to the 
app, and the default settings should not collect more information than necessary for the app to function. 
Although I’m sure Facebook has the legal authority 
to make these changes, the convoluted language used to describe these changes means more and more data is gathered with every update, leaving many Facebook users none the wiser.
For example, with its recent policy changes, Spotify 
has gained access to a wide range of data that has little to nothing to do with its service. This ended up back-firing, as it should, with many boycotting the service until the company pledged to change its policies. When 
the Internet first became popular, users didn’t really 
think about privacy. 
To some extent, this has lasted to the present, with 
many users never realizing the holes in their privacy settings, or even worse, not knowing that they exist.
By phrasing privacy policy changes in 
hard-to-read jargon, many are left agreeing to terms that they know little about. 
These unintentional privacy slips that peo-
ple may make without knowing how much 
data is actually kept on them can produce 
some creepy results and information falling into the wrong hands. 
Spotify’s new running feature would obviously need 
to track GPS, but it won’t need access to your GPS 
while you are just listening to music. This, for exam-
ple, is an important distinction that needs to be made in order to preserve privacy.
Industries of all sorts have been shown to be notori-
ously terrible at regulating themselves. Standards need to be written to protect users who may be tech-savvy but not privacy-savvy. Knowing how to use Facebook 
and knowing how to navigate privacy settings are not 
mutually exclusive. Legislative action needs to be taken so that users have more power over what they share.
Perhaps tech companies don’t deserve all of the 
blame. It’s important to know what information you put out there. Privacy violations are widespread and 
often hidden in the fine print of the terms and con-
ditions. Users have to realize how their social media posts show a pattern that can be easily followed — what school they go to, what classes they take and, 
perhaps most eerie of all, what establishments they 
frequent.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Online privacy needs to become top priorityColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“Customers deserve a clearer 
outline of exactly what they 
are agreeing to and the 
abilitly to pick and choose 
which parts of their lives to 
give up to Internet giants.” “Having spent 
the summer 
in Israel, 
I gained a 
very personal 
perspective 
on why our 
ally opposes 
President 
Obama's 
proposed 
nuclear deal 
with Iran.”8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
The Indian Student Association tap and twirl sticks in traditional 
garb during their on-stage appearance.
Members in the Vietnamese Student Organization dance and twirl parasols during their performance.
Traditional and modern dance fuse
Photos by Aaron Albright
The Asian American Student Assembly 
hosted “Breakthrough” Friday night at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. The event celebrated the growth of the Asian American community and personal breakthroughs students experience in their lifetimes. A variety of Asian American clubs, sororities and fraternities performed dance routines ranging from traditional dances to modern choreography.
TOP:
Health Educated Asian Leaders 
perform a skit and dance while wearing hospital clothes during the “Breakthrough” event.
MIDDLE:
Kappa Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc. ﬂ  ourishes fans during a perfor-mance in the “Breakthrough” event where the growth of the Asian American community is celebrated.
RIGHT:
The Filipino Student Associa-tion dances in “Breakthrough, ” an event hosted by the Asian American Student Assembly.MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 Gabrielle Calise / Alligator
Miami-based group The Jellyfish Brothers played songs at The Jam on Saturday during 
the Road to III Points event, which promoted the III Points festival happening in Miami.
MORE SHOWS WILL BE PLANNED.
By Gabrielle Calise
Alligator Contributing Writer
Blue and white lasers flashed through 
smoke as about 400 people danced to 
thumping beats and pulsing rhythms.
The laser show was part of the Road to 
III Points, an event featuring local and Mi-
ami artists at The Jam Saturday night. The 
show, which featured five live acts and eight DJs, was designed to promote the III Points Music, Art & Technology Festi-val that will take place in Miami from Oct. 9-11.
“The event was absolutely stellar, ex-
tremely well organized,” said Evelyn Fer-nandez, 20, a UF mechanical and aero-
space engineering junior who attended the 
event.
The event was the result of an online 
collaboration on Facebook between III Points Music Festival and two local groups, Over Easy Creative and Swamp Records, said Santiago “True Vine” Vidal, who per-formed at the event.Vidal, a Miami-based DJ, said he felt 
that III Points is a counterculture move-ment.
“We’re not Ultra, we’re not EDC, where 
there’s a lot of very well-known acts,” said Vidal, who helped plan the Road to III Points event as a music director.
“It’s a lot of underground music that 
you have to dig deep to find, and I want 
people to be exposed to this music here,” 
he said.
While indie and electronic artists per-
formed on The Jam’s indoor stage, the backyard portion of the venue was used as a second stage for house and EDM artists.
For the organizers, using The Jam as 
a venue was part of what made the event meaningful.
“This is my favorite place to throw 
events just because they’re very open and do things a little differently,” said Les Voss, 22, the owner of Over Easy Creative.
Vidal said plans are in the works for 
additional shows across Florida, including Orlando and Jacksonville.
“Expect a lot from III Points this year,” 
he said.The Jam hosts local and Miami DJs to promote festival
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
Sitting on a bench, Mollie Las-
siter dreamed of a gown.
It would be draping and flow-
ing, in pearly hues of silver, blue 
and green.
But standing between Lassiter 
and her gown was an audition.
Lassiter spent Saturday morn-
ing auditioning with the Thieves Guilde at the Thomas Center in hopes of performing in the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire as 
the Lady of the Lake.
If selected, Lassiter, 24, will 
sew her dream gown and commit 
to months of rehearsal before the 
fair at the end of January.
“I was practically born per-
forming,” she said. “My mom told 
me as long as she could remem-ber, I was singing and dancing to 
Disney movies and acting things 
out.”
While this was her fourth time 
auditioning, Lassiter still got but-
terflies before stepping onto the 
stage.
“I always try to read about my 
character and their background,” she said, having coordinated her 
hair and makeup to emulate the 
Lady of the Lake.
For this audition, she sang 
30 seconds of “All I Ask of You” 
from the Phantom of the Opera, 
one of her favorite musicals, be-fore running through five skits in the next four hours along with other Thieves Guilde volunteers.
“We’re looking for people who 
can walk the streets and inter-act with patrons,” said Candice Chambers, the group’s producer.
•   •   •Lassiter first auditioned for the 
Thieves Guilde after she visited the fair and watched the actors 
perform as chess pieces in a com-
petition. 
Taken by the choreographed 
combat, she auditioned and be-
came part of the ensemble the 
following year.
“The hardest thing about audi-
tioning for anything is being wor-ried about getting the role you 
want,” Lassiter said.
But here, settling for another 
role isn’t that difficult, she said.
“With this group, they make every single role very much who 
you are, and it makes it all the more fun,” Lassiter said.
Now in her fourth year, Las-
siter said the audition process is much less daunting.
“I was an introvert for the lon-
gest time,” she said. “This group almost forces you to become an extrovert - not in a bad way though.”
The Thieves Guilde has be-
come like a tight-knit extended family to her, she said.
In fact, it’s where she met her 
husband, Jarred Lassiter.“Mollie is probably the sweet-
est person I know,” he said. “She just cares a lot about everyone.”
Though the two were friends 
before they began dating, Jarred, a guild member for the past 15 years, said they were not ex-tremely close.
But when Mollie broke up 
with her boyfriend at the time, he made her a chainmail necklace with a heart pendant.
“Luckily we had the blessing 
of everyone in the Guilde,” Mol-lie said. “Through just hanging out, we decided to try dating, and he decided he wanted me to hang 
out with him for the rest of his 
life.”At their wedding last March, 
three of the groomsmen were Thieves Guilde members.
•   •   •
It’s been a few years since 
Jarred Lassiter has played a char-acter with the Thieves Guilde, but he said his wife excels in her roles.
“Mollie is always thinking of 
new ways to deliver lines,” he said. “She puts a lot of personali-ty into every character she plays.”
Even during the audition pro-
cess, she taught other Thieves Guilde volunteers about their characters. She commanded the skits, directing other members on what would be the most clever 
thing to say or the funniest thing 
to do.
At Saturday’s auditions, she 
performed skits as Lady of the 
Lake and another character 
named Guinevere. 
But it’s clear which of the two 
she prefers.
Lassiter is drawn to Lady of 
the Lake because she is an icon-ic character who has been done in so many ways, she said. She plans to use her passion for con-
servation as inspiration for her 
portrayal.
“I don’t think she’s ever been 
an environmentalist,” she said. “She’s trying to make them more 
environmentally aware and sort 
of a politician in that sense.”
Lassiter will find out if she got 
the role on Thursday. 
Rehearsals will begin two 
weeks later.
“You get to dress up, which is 
something we all like to do,” she said. “And you get to go and be the goofy person you can’t be ev-
ery single day.”Performers audition for Hoggetowne Medieval Faire 
Brooke Baitinger / Alligator Staff
Guilde members (from left) Scott West, Kayte Sands, Mollie Lassiter and Miranda Lipsig perform a skit 
during the Thieves Guilde auditions at the Thomas Center on Saturday.
Rehersals begin in the next two weeksMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious atmosphere. $475/mo includes high speed internet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 325-631-0737    9-3-15-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 fem roommates wanted for 3 bedroom spacious, house. Shaded fenced backyard, wood floors, screened living porch. Washer/Dryer. 6 blocks from campus/from "Swamp/UF Plaza, NW 6th Ave. $490/m + Utl. Call/Text: 607 351 8655     9-1-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
3 COMPUTER MONITORS FOR SALE:●Accer 20" black, $20●Sansui, HDTV & computer, 19" black $40●Accer 20" LCD $20Call Ron 352-843-8998     8-31-15-2-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
BACKPACKSNorth Face, Osprey, & Jansport on Sale!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13 St /1 mile North of UF on 13th St352.372.37836    9-2-5-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
YETIRambler Cups In Stock. Keep it as cold as possible!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13th St / 1 mile North of UF352.372.7836                    9-2-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
For sale: HIGH VISABILITY motorcycle rid-ing JACKET, large, greenish-yellow with high visability BACKPACK - same color. Paid $262 for both - will sell for half-price at $130 together. Don 352-328-0764    9-1-5-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course 
creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
A large reptile farm in Newberry is seeking enthusiastic new team members. The pri-mary hours of operation are Monday-Friday 9am to 5pm. Weekend hours may also be available. Starting salary of $9.00 per hour with a pay increase to $12.00 per hour and a benefits package after a 90 day probationary period. We welcome students and offer flex-ible scheduling!
This position involves caring for various rep-
tile species, and may include tasks such as feeding, watering, cleaning cages, breeding, and recording data. Being comfortable work-ing around insects, reptiles, and rodents is important for this position.
This is a hands on position. Candidates can-
not be afraid of handling reptiles and possi-bly being bitten. Don't worry; we do not have any venomous species at our facility!
If you are a motivated hard worker with re-
liable transportation and are interested in working with animals, please contact us!
The Gourmet Rodent
352-472-9189       9-2-15-5-14
MAKE $$$ Referring College/University Students To Our Website!!!Send Inquiries To Dr. Wayne Hunter:  (386) 801-1599; khunter35@cfl.rr.com; www.drwayneeditsandresearch.com    9-1-4-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring for
recreational & team gymnastics coaches,
front desk, & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
9-3-15-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred.Email resume to:    drpohani@gmail.com     9-4-15-5-14
College Student needed part-time for busy law firm in Gainesville to answer phones. Must be familiar with Google Calendar. Send resume to touchtonassistant@gmail.com and include phone number for contact.    9-3-4-14Consign-a-Rama
Gainesville's newest college and juniors 
consignment sale! Positions available, visit 
www.consign-a-rama.com for info
9-4-15-5-14
P/T ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Holy Trinity Church. Strong oral/written commu-nications skills including editing required as well as working knowledge & experience with MS Office Suite and social media. Must have positive attitude & be a team player. Direct inquiries to rhpowell43@gmail.com.   9-4-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
EDITING PAPERS AND DISSERTATIONS--ADJUNCT PROFESSOR AND NATIONAL AUTHOR whyland99@yahoo.com; http://whyland99.wix.com/jefferson    9-4-15-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Attention Runners:2 New Races on Oct. 11th!Alachua Lake Half Marathon & 5K Prediction Run on the Hawthorne Trail.Sign up at www.lloydclarkesports.com    9-2-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDPUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 20 Event NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
"Dead poets society got me up all up in my thoughts"
Josh T obias ( @JoshT oby11)
Former UF baseball player
Former UF tight end Trey 
Burton had two touchdowns in the Philadelphia Eagles' 39-26 victory over the Green Bay Packers on Saturday. Follow us for football updates
For updates on today's press conference with UF football coach Jim McElwain, follow us onTwitter at @alligatorsports.THREE FIRST-HALF GOALS PAVED 
THE WAY FOR UF'S VICTORY. 
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13          
For the ﬁ  rst time in the program’s 21-year 
history, the Florida soccer team defeated the 
nation’s top team on its home turf.
Led by goals from Savannah Jordan, 
Sarah Troccoli and Pamela Begic, the No. 14 Gators (3-1-0) took down No. 1 Florida State (3-1-0) 3-2 on Sunday afternoon, ending the Seminoles’ 24-match unbeaten streak.
The win was UF’s second-straight over 
FSU, as the Gators handed the defending NCAA champion Seminoles their only loss in the 2014 season.  
The ﬁ  rst 10 minutes of the game saw the 
Gators struggle to get a rhythm going offen-sively. 
On multiple occasions, Florida's passes 
were either intercepted or were too strong and rolled out of bounds.
However, the Gators gained momentum 
quickly, leading to Jordan’s ﬁ  fth goal of the season in the 18th minute.
Troccoli assisted Jordan on the play, dish-
ing the ball with the outside of her foot from 
just beyond the box and allowing Jordan to 
place the ball at the far left post from six 
yards out.
Less than three minutes later, a Christen 
Westphal corner found the head of Troccoli 
and landed in the top-right corner of the net 
AIR JORDAN
When Tim 
Tebow signed with the Phila-delphia Eagles in April, I 
thought it was a match made in heaven.
Was he going to be 
the starting quarterback? 
Of course not.But under the di-
rection of Chip Kelly, Tebow should be primed to at least get some sort of playing time, wheth-
er it be for short-yardage plays or 
Wildcat-type formations.
But if the preseason is any indica-
tion, I was wrong.
With one game remaining in the 
preseason and ﬁ  nal roster cuts com-ing on Saturday, Tebow is still ﬁ  ghting with Matt Barkley to even make Philadelphia’s 53-man roster.
And right now, it’s 
not looking good.
He’s had some high-
lights, notably the Ea-gles’ 36-10 win against the Colts where he went 6 of 12 for 69 yards and 
tacked on a 7-yard rushing touch-down.
But outside of that ﬁ  rst game, 
Tebow has attempted just seven passes in the past two games.
He’s been sacked three times for a 
loss of 28 yards.Gators stun No. 1, defending national champion Seminoles
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
All Mary Wise said to Gabby 
Mallette was to be herself.
“I asked her right before she 
went in, and I said that ‘Gab-
by when you ﬁ  nally get your 
chance and it’s a decent look, be 
Gabby,’” Wise said.
Up 2-1, on a six-point run and 
with a 24-23 lead in the fourth 
set, Florida needed one ﬁ  nal point to avoid a ﬁ  fth and ﬁ  nal set that would allow American University a chance to steal the match.
Mallette stepped up with 
a powerful swing to earn the match-ending kill as the No. 4 Gators (2-0) defeated the Eagles (3-1) by a score of 3-1 Sunday afternoon in Washington, D.C.
Mallette’s kill was just her 
ﬁ  rst of the season. 
The senior outside hitter from 
Orange Park had just ﬁ  ve total attacks this season prior to the game.
“I couldn’t be more proud of 
Gabby because she had not got-ten good looks, meaning prior to that swing all of the sets she got were broken plays,” Wise said. 
“She didn’t get a single good 
look. Not yesterday [and] not today.”
Although the ﬁ  rst set was 
back and forth between UF and AU, American ultimately topped Florida 26-24 after back-to-back kills at 24-24. 
The Gators hit just .317 in the 
opening set, while the Eagles hit .351.
To regain some momentum, 
Florida turned to sophomore 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhas-
san in the second set.
Alhassan, who had just one 
kill in the ﬁ  rst set, racked up six kills in the second, as American had no answer up front for the Glenarden, Maryland, native. 
She ﬁ  nished the match with 
12 kills, one solo block and a 
game-high eight block assists.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida players (left) celebrate with freshman Sarah Troccoli after she scored UF's second goal of the ﬁ  rst half during the No. 14 
Gators' 3-2 win against No. 1 Florida State on Sunday at James G. Pressly Stadium. For more photos, see page 14. 
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126UF drops American for road winTebow wouldn't play even if 
he made the Eagles' roster 
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15Gators open season 2-0
“I couldn’t be more proud of 
Gabby because she had not 
gotten good looks, meaning 
prior to that swing all of 
the sets she got were broken 
plays.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coach14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
GATORS DOWN TOP-RANKED SEMINOLES
RIGHT:
UF goalkeeper Val Tysinger 
(right) battles with Florida State forward Cheyna Williams (19) for possession during the second half.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
UF midfielder Pamela Begic dribbles the ball while FSU’s Elin Jensen (5) approaches during the first half. Begic’s first-half penalty was ultimately the game-winning goal. 
TOP LEFT:
The UF soccer team huddles prior to the start of the game. Florida has won its past two 
games against Florida State.
BOTTOM LEFT:
UF midfielder Meggie 
Dougherty-Howard screams 
as she is tackled by an FSU 
defender during Florida’s 3-2 win on Sunday at James G. Pressly Stadium. Dougherty-
Howard returned to the game.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffJordan McPherson / Alligator StaffMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
to double the Gators’ lead.
Sunday’s game served as Troc-
coli’s first collegiate start and also 
marked her second straight game 
with a goal.
The freshman entered the uni-
versity during the Spring semes-ter, and has been working with 
coach Becky Burleigh and the 
team from the beginning of her time in Gainesville.
“She has put in a lot of hard 
work,” Burleigh said. 
“She stayed here the entire 
summer, she was here in the spring and that’s really paying off for her.”
In the 27th minute, Jordan 
lined up to take a penalty kick fol-lowing a Florida State foul in the box, but the shot hit the middle 
of the crossbar and sailed toward 
midfield.
Florida found itself in posi-
tion to score on another penalty opportunity late in the first half 
when freshman Melanie Mon-
teagudo was taken down in the box.
This time, Begic placed the 
shot successfully into the left side of the goal, giving the Gators a 3-0 lead.
“In my opinion, that’s one of the easiest things to do in soccer,” Begic said of the penalty, “I mean, 
its just you and the goalie. It’s re-
ally close, so I just went for it.”
Florida entered halftime with 
a comfortable 3-0 lead, but that lead quickly dissipated following 
two goals by the Seminoles in the 
75th and 80th minutes.
Despite the shortened lead, 
the Gators held on in the final minutes, clinching the upset in the team’s first home game of the season.
A change in formation gave 
the Gators an opportunity to pro-duce offensively, switching from a 4-2-3-1 to a 4-1-4-1. 
The switch-up allowed Florida 
to eliminate FSU’s holding mid-
fielders, opening up more chanc-
es on goal for Burleigh’s squad.
The scoring line against the 
Seminoles made it seven goals 
in the past two games for the 
Gators, while the team scored just two goals in the season’s first two matches.SOCCER,  from pg 13Florida defeated a No. 
1 ranked team at home 
for the first time ever After swiping the second set 25-
20, UF continued its success into 
the third set on the shoulders of ju-nior right-side hitter Alex Holston.
Holston totaled seven kills and 
added a service ace to help Florida win the third set 25-15. 
The fourth and final set proved 
the Gators’ resiliency.  
American led for most of the 
set and was two points from tying the match at 2-2 after Sarah Katz earned a kill to run the score to 23-18.
But with senior defensive spe-
cialist Nikki O’Rourke behind the line serving, UF rattled off seven straight points to take the set 25-23 and earn the victory. 
Florida won its three final 
points via kills from Holston, Al-hassan and Mallette, in that order.
“Let that be Nicki’s role, that’d 
be just fine that we can run points off her serve,” Wise said.
Wise said her team’s aggres-
siveness was the biggest factor in the win.
“What I tried to explain to the 
team afterwards was recognize what it feels like when we’re being an aggressive team, when we’re 
putting the pressure on another 
team,” she said, “as opposed to what it feels like when someone is doing that to us.”
The Gators will next travel to 
Austin, Texas, where they will have their hands full, as they play No. 13 Oregon on Friday and No. 3 Texas on Saturday.
 A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report. VOLLEYBALL,  from pg 13UF volleyball has won 900 games He’s yet to throw a pass longer than 18 
yards.
That’s not a good sign, especially since Kel-
ly said he doesn’t plan to use Tebow as just a special formation-type player.
And even if Tebow does squeak by and 
land on Philly’s 53-man roster, he won’t see the field.
Injury-prone Sam Bradford is essentially 
a shoe-in for the starting job, especially after his perfect night (10-for-10 passing, 121 yards, three touchdowns) against Green Bay on Sat-urday. 
Former New York Jet Mark Sanchez — who 
has been average at best during his first six sea-sons — should be the Eagles’ backup.
That leaves Tebow and Barkley fighting to 
make the roster as the team’s No. 3 quarter-back, which would make it virtually impossible for either of them to get respectable playing time.
Because of the NFL’s third quarterback rule, 
which has been in play since 1991, a team’s 
third-string quarterback can’t play during the 
first three quarters unless both the starting and backup quarterbacks are taken out and don’t return to action.
In layman’s terms, if Tebow makes Phila-
delphia’s roster and is the No. 3 quarterback, he would be restricted to playing in only the fi-nal 15 minutes of every game unless both Brad-ford and Sanchez are removed from the game.
If that’s the case, why keep him?Since the Denver Broncos traded Tebow to 
the Jets in 2012, Tebow Time has been on hold.
And once next week rolls around, it looks 
like it will stay that way.COLUMN,  from pg 13
Jordan McPherson  / Alligator Staff
Defensive Specialist Nikki O'Rourke serves during Florida's 3-1 win 
against Miami on Dec. 6 in the O'Connell Center. 
AP Photo
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Tim T ebow throws a pass at NFL football training camp in Philadelphia. The biggest question is whether Chip Kelly finds enough ways to use T ebow to justify keeping him on the 53-man roster. 
“She has put in a lot of hard 
work. She stayed here the 
entire summer, she was 
here in the spring and that’s 
really paying off for her.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015
