INSIDE
With UF’s Senior Day approaching, linebacker Antonio Morrison ‘s unique 
leadership style will be on display one final time at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
ONLINE
For all of the updates from Saturday’s game against Florida State, stay tuned to alligator.org/sports. 
LEAVING IT ALL ON THE FIELDKICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photo for Cover Illustration Danielle Veenstra
Alligator, Tuesday, November 24, 2015
FLORIDA offense vs. FSU defense FLORIDA defense vs. FSU offense
Alec EberleCSean MaguireQBDalvin CookRB
Jalen 
T aborCB
Vernon
Hargreaves IIICB
Bryan
Cox Jr.DE
Caleb
BrantleyNT
Jarrad
DavisWILLCeCe 
JeffersonRUSH
Marcus
MayeFS
Keanu 
NealSSWilson 
BellRGChad
MavetyRTRyan
IzzoTE
Kareem
AreLG Roderick
JohnsonLTTravis
RudolphWR
Cam DillardC
Treon HarrisQB
Kelvin T aylorRBDavid
SharpeLTMartez 
IveyLG
Antonio
CallawayWR
Trip 
ThurmanRG
Mason
HalterRT
Jake
McGeeTE Demarcus
RobinsonWR
Brandon 
PowellWRDerrick
NnadiNT
Marquez 
WhiteCB
Josh
SweatBUCKJavien
ElliottSTARDerwin 
JamesFS
Lamarcus
BrutusSS
Demarcus
WalkerDE Jesus
WilsonWR
Khairi 
ClarkDTNile Lawrence-
StampleDTJalen
RamseyCBT errance
SmithWILL
Reggie Northrup
or Ro’Derrick HoskinsMIKE
Antonio
MorrisonMIKEFreddie StevensonFB
Brian
PooleNICKFlorida’s nickel cornerback, 
Poole plays aggressively and is not afraid to make the tough tackle. He leads Florida corners with 33 tackles and is second on the team with 10 pass breakups.
OUTINJURY
REPORT
DL Jordan Sherit (Hamstring)DE Alex McCalister (Foot)
DOUBTFUL
DT T aven Bryan (Ankle)DT Jonathan Bullard (Knee)
QUESTIONABLE
WR Brandon Powell (Foot)OT Martez Ivey (Shoulder)OT David Sharpe (Foot)OL Cam Dillard (Leg)DT Joey Ivie (Leg)
PROBABLE
DT Caleb Brantley (Abdomen and Groin)LB Antonio Morrison (Abdomen)Saturday’s regular-season finale against Flor-
ida State marks the last time Florida’s seniors 
will play in The Swamp. Here’s a look at some of Florida’s most memorable seniors and their highlights while at UF.
Now heading into his third Senior Day, McGee has been one of Florida’s consistent playmakers in the passing game. He has come through 
in the clutch, with 19 of his 
34 catches going for either first downs or touchdowns.
Jake McGee
Mason Halter
Jon Bullard
Antonio Morrison
Trip Thurman
SENIOR SALUTE
Thurman is the lone 
returning starter from UF’s 
offensive line last year and 
has served as a cog on the 
interior of the line. The 
Delaware native has started 
16 consecutive games and 21 
in his UF career.
Halter was a veteran body 
on an overall inexperienced offensive line this season. 
A Fordham transfer, Halter 
has started every game at tackle this season.
Bullard has anchored the 
Gators’ defensive front this 
season. He leads the Gators 
with 13.5 tackles for loss 
from the defensive tackle 
position, punishing every opposing offensive line that he faces.
Morrison has served as the story of this team. After blowing out his knee in the first half of the Birmingham Bowl in January, Morrison returned for UF’s season opener and leads the Gators with 84 tackles this season.
Brian Poole
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Antonio Morrison fits the part of a lineback-
er.
Standing at 6-foot-1 and 229 pounds, he’s a 
human wrecking ball looking to deal out pun-
ishment with every tackle and has a personality that can be difficult to tolerate.
For instance, during his sophomore season, 
he was arrested for resisting arrest and barking at a police dog — his defense being that the dog barked first.
If you’re looking for Mr. Nice Guy, Antonio 
isn’t your man.
“On the field, he likes to hit hard,” center 
Cam Dillard said. “Sometimes, he likes to talk. Other than that, he’s a linebacker. What do you expect?”
But there’s more to Antonio than that.Despite his outward persona, there isn’t a 
more selfless or motivated player on Florida’s football team.
And as he prepares to play his last game in 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Saturday against 
Florida State during Senior Day, he’ll be the guy 
all his teammates look to for leadership — no matter if it’s a warm-up exercise during practice or a crucial third down play in the final minutes of the game.
Just don’t mention it to Antonio — he would 
never admit that’s the case.
•   •   •
“Fierce competitor.”Those are the first words that come to mind 
when John Ivlow thinks about Antonio.
Ivlow, a former NFL running back and An-
tonio’s high school coach at Bolingbrook High — a school just southwest of Chicago — knows all about talented football players.
Ivlow has 32 former players on current col-
lege rosters, from the likes of Minnesota, Notre 
Dame, Ohio State and more.
But few have been as talented or as driven 
as Antonio, whom Ivlow said could always be 
found either in the gym or on the football field.
“My best football players over the years 
aren’t there to make friends,” Ivlow said. 
“They’re not there to please or impress any-
body. They’re there to bust their butts, win as many games as they can and get themselves a 
full-ride scholarship. And that’s what (Antonio) 
was about.”
Once he became an upperclassman, Antonio 
took ownership of the defense, always pushing his teammates to test the limits of how hard 
they could go.
And once his determination was put on dis-
play, it was tough for teammates not to follow 
suit.
The result: a state championship in Anto-
nio’s senior season.
“They worked,” Ivlow said. “They all had 
that goal, that vision of where they wanted to go, and they got there all right. ... I guess it was kinda contagious.”
•   •   •
Antonio’s work ethic has continued to be 
contagious at Florida.
If the team shows up to practice without 
enough energy in opening warm-ups, Antonio will make everyone start over again and do it right.
Even if the offense needs a pep talk during a 
game, Antonio will step up to the plate and say something.
It may not always be what his teammates want to hear, but sometimes it’s the message they need to hear.
“You may not like what he says, but he’s 
upfront and honest,” linebackers coach Randy 
Shannon said. “A lot of people don’t want to 
hear the truth. Antonio is that type of guy, but he’s going to hold himself accountable, too. 
“When he knows he’s screwing up, he’ll 
tell you he’s screwing up. …That’s the greatest 
thing about Antonio. He’s the pulse of the team 
because he’s honest.”
The senior certainly doesn’t sugarcoat any-
thing. 
Sometimes the manner in which he gets his 
message across can make him seem like a jerk, but it’s just the way he’s wired.
And while he might show it differently, 
McElwain said he believes Antonio has a natu-
ral gift for leadership, even if he doesn’t realize 
it.
“The one thing that isn’t different about 
people who are leaders is they have an ability to affect the people around them and motivate and get people to follow what you’re doing,” 
McElwain said. “He’s got that. Whatever ‘it’ is, 
he has it in that category and that’s what makes him so special.”
But again, Antonio is quick to undersell that 
notion.
“We’re filled (with) leaders,” he said. “Ev-
erybody on that defense is a leader. I call guys out, guys call me out. It doesn’t matter what year they’re in — freshman, sophomore, it doesn’t matter.”
•   •   •
Antonio’s recovery from a devastating knee 
injury has been written about countless times this season.
He suffered the injury during Florida’s bowl game in January and was expected to need nearly a full calendar year to get back to full 
strength.
Yet there he was on opening night against 
New Mexico State, starting in the heart of the 
Gators’ defense as if he had never missed a day.
The process to get there wasn’t so easy, 
however, and coach Jim McElwain has taken every chance he can to praise Antonio’s work ethic and drive to successfully pull off an “un-believable” and “miraculous” recovery.
“I can’t say enough good stuff about this 
guy,” McElwain said. “My hat’s off to that guy for what he did giving up himself for this team to be good.”
The more telling part about the senior line-
backer, though, is how he has responded time and again to all the praise he has gotten.
“Injuries are part of the game,” Antonio 
said when asked about how much he had to 
overcome during the offseason. “That’s what I 
signed up for. You’re going to get injured. Just rehabbed, now I’m playing.”
He then quickly turned the attention to the 
other linebackers on the team, mentioning them all by name and stating “they’re all going to be better than me,” despite the fact that he himself was coming off a 100-tackle season — the school’s first since Brandon Spikes in 2007.
It’s that type of attitude that has endeared 
him to his teammates and coaches.
It’s that type of attitude Florida will sorely 
miss when he’s gone.
Everyone who is part of the team realizes it.Except Antonio.“Y’all going to be forgetting my name prob-
ably next year,” he said when talking about all the young talent this team has and will have in 
the future.
With someone so central to the fiber of this 
team, the odds of that are pretty slim.
“That guy’s the heart and soul, man,” McEl-
wain said.
ROUGH AROUND THE EDGES
Antonio Morrison’s style is unique yet effectiveDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Antonio Morrison chases down running back Jay Warren during Florida’s 20-14 overtime win against Florida Atlantic on Saturday in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 65 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
FSU running back Dalvin Cook 
ready to test UF defense
He's one of the top running backs in 
the country, pg. 13
International students' new traditions
Holiday away from home, pg. 3 
Helping the hungry this Thanksgiving
An easy guide to food donation locations, pg. 9Happy Thanksgiving
T oday is the Alligator's last issue of the week. Check back Monday for more news 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
A Facebook page claiming to be 
the University of Florida White Stu-
dents Union was created Sunday. 
The page posted it “aims to de-
fend cultural diversity, partially by 
defending European culture and traditions.” Some UF students have 
posted critiques of the page on its wall and in comments on the page’s posts.
As of press time, the page has 
84 likes. UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email there is 
no student organization at UF reg-
istered with the name “White Stu-dents Union.”Sikes said the page was using the 
UF logo without permission, and the Ofﬁ  ce of University Relations reported the illegal use of it to Face-book. The page changed its proﬁ  le 
photo from the UF logo to Century 
Tower on Monday at about noon.
UF Black Student Union presi-
dent Phillip Wells said he wasn’t surprised when the page went up on Facebook.
Wells, a UF telecommunication 
senior, began receiving text mes-sages from BSU members about the page Sunday night. He said he’s seen other universities with similar groups.  
The 21-year-old said UF organi-
zations like BSU and the Hispanic Student Association were formed to support communities that weren’t largely represented at UF. He be-lieves the page was made in retalia-tion to those organizations.
“We as students can’t stop any-
one from starting their own group 
or organization if they felt the need 
to,” he said, “but I personally don’t think (the page is) necessary, being at a predominately white institu-tion.”
UF’s Assistant Vice President of 
Student Affairs Mary Kay Carodine said UF is working to get the page UF responds to ‘White Students Union’ Facebook
SEE RACE,  PAGE 4
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator staff 
VOODOO
Gerald Joannis, a 23-year-old professional dancer, takes a break after teaching the 
warm up to the Haitian folklore dance at Kreyol’ Culture Night at the Poole Building on Monday. His face paint is traditional for Nago, a soldier. See the photo story on page 5.
EPILOGUE
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Landon Rogers kept a journal.
It was left on the desk in his UF dorm, a 
book of reﬂ  ection and religion.
The faith and lessons in the book pro-
vided motivation and encouragement as he 
pushed himself to succeed as a high school 
quarterback, lacrosse captain, straight-A stu-dent and Air Force ROTC cadet.
At about 6:40 a.m. Thursday, Landon 
was pushing himself to surpass his best time during ROTC physical training when he col-lapsed on the Percy Beard Track, just before ﬁ  nishing ﬁ  ve out of six laps.
The 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman 
was pronounced dead roughly 45 minutes after being transported to UF Health Shands Hospital.
“I’m reminded today that some things we 
do may not have signiﬁ  cance until much lat-er,” Landon wrote in a July 10 journal entry. “Some encouraging words may not be help-ful until years later.”
Those words in his journal were now 
signiﬁ  cant to his family and his Gainesville loved ones as they mourned his loss and honored his memory.
      
When people talk about Landon, they re-
member the little things.
They talk about the times he stayed late 
to pack up the Eastside High School band room, or when he drove ﬁ  ve hours to watch 
a friend’s swim competition.
Most of all, when people talk about Land-
on Howard Rogers, the son of Howard and 
Cheryl Rogers, they talk about his smile.
As exams started to pile on during their 
junior year, Landon asked Lucas Zhou to help him give water to the homeless. 
Zhou, now a UF freshman, said he was 
busy with exams, but Landon was even bus-ier.
They ﬁ  lled a cooler with water bottles and 
walked downtown, where Landon would re-cite a prayer for anyone who would listen.
“The signature smile on his face radiated 
love just as it did for all of us when we knew 
him,” Zhou said during a funeral service on 
Monday.   
As a student at Lincoln Middle School 
and Eastside High School, Landon was a dynamic presence athletically and academi-cally.
Eastside sophomore Spencer Warren said 
Landon balanced football, lacrosse and band, along 
with co-founding and run-
ning Pursuit, a Bible study group.  
He recalled Landon 
wearing his football uni-form and playing tuba during a halftime show be-
fore continuing the game.
“I can’t remember one time that he 
wasn’t smiling,” Warren said. “If he noticed you weren’t feeling your best, then he would come up to you and talk to you about it.”
Eastside recognized Landon’s efforts with 
a Ram of the Year Award, which meant he embodied achievement in leadership, aca-demics, athletics and the arts, said Adele Turnage, the assistant principal of curricu-lum.
“He really believed that it was imperative 
to treat others with kindness, and that just never wavered,” Turnage said.
When she stood on hall duty, Landon 
never failed to stop and ask about her family.
“If I had a daughter who was young 
enough, I’d want her to marry Landon,” she said.
      
Before the ceremony honoring Landon’s 
memory, cars ﬁ  lled the parking lot and Hundreds mourn friend, sonIt was created on Sunday
“W e as students can’t stop 
anyone from starting their 
own group or organization if 
they felt the need to.”
Phillip Wells
UF Black Student Union 
Rogers
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators anniversary cel-
ebration Dec. 5
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club will host a 10th Anniversary Celebration and Reunion on Dec. 
5 from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the 
Uptown Village at Townsend clubhouse, 3780 NW 24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters members and officers  through-out the area and past and pres-ent Talking Gators club members and officers. RSVP by calling 352-283-3919 so we can plan for refreshments. For more in-formation about the club, visit the website: talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org. Talking Gators also has a Facebook page.
 Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your friends out to our biweekly lessons/dances every Monday and Friday. We have free lessons for beginners and intermediates open to every-one. On Monday nights, we are 
at the Reitz Union Breezeway 
(655 Reitz Union Dr.) with les-sons from 7 to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. On Friday nights, they are at the Unified Training Center (809 W. University Ave.) with lessons from 8 to 9 p.m. and social danc-
ing from 9 p.m. to midnight. If 
you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find us on Facebook. We hope to dance with you all soon! face-book.com/groups/FLSDC/
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org.    2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 65
HIGH  70° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
CUP O’ JOE
Alec Paulive, a 20-year-old UF 
chemistry and philosophy junior, sips a latte during Know Where Coffee’s Latte Art Exhibition. About 70 people received free coffee and cookies throughout the day. 
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Alfonso Guerrero-Villa, the 31-year-old founder and manager of Know Where Coffee, designs a leaf pattern on a latte during the coffee shop’s second annual Latte Art Exhibition on Monday. The specialty coffee shop celebrated National Espresso Day while also training its baristas.By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
For most UF students, Thanksgiv-
ing Break means turkeys and pump-
kin pies at home. But for internation-al students, it is nothing more than a week off from school.
There are more than 6,000 in-
ternational students studying at UF, according to the university’s admis-sions website. While American stu-dents travel back home for second servings of mashed potatoes and cornbread on Thursday, some inter-national students will stay in Florida and create their own Thanksgiving 
traditions.  
A Middle Eastern Feast
Mohammad Almatar is looking 
forward to Thanksgiving Break, even 
though he doesn’t plan on celebrat-ing it with stufﬁ  ng and gravy.
“I feel happy for thanksgiving, 
even though I am not related to it,” the UF international student, who is from Saudi Arabia, wrote in an email. “Looking at happy people makes me happy.”
Almatar, 20, has been studying 
English at UF’s English Language In-stitute for about a year.
On Thursday, he said he will 
likely visit Kabab House, near the in-tersection of West University Avenue and Northwest 13th Street. He’ll or-der biryani, a Saudi delicacy made of mixed spices, rice and either veg-etables or meat.  
He said Saudi Arabians have 
feasts like Thanksgiving, called Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha.  
“My holidays are kind of similar 
to thanksgiving because we gather together, eat (special) food and give each other some gifts,” Almatar said.
Eid al-Fitr occupies the ﬁ  rst three 
days of the 10th Islamic month of the calendar, while Eid al-Adha takes up four days in the middle of the 12th Islamic month.
Although Almatar said he doesn’t 
plan on having a traditional feast, he will still speak with his family Thurs-day. He’ll Skype with his parents, brother and sister, who still live in the Middle East.
“In the rest of (the) time, I might 
go hang out with some friends,” he 
said.
A Colombian Exchange
Marco Iguaran won’t eat turkey 
on Thanksgiving Day.
For the UF international student 
from La Guajira, Colombia, turkey-
eating is traditionally saved for New Year’s Eve or Christmas. 
Iguaran has lived in the U.S. since 
January. He earned his bachelor’s de-gree in electrical engineering in Co-lombia and is studying English at the English Language Institute.
He said he has no idea what 
Thanksgiving is about. Instead, he focuses on his own country’s holi-days.
“We have another history,” the 
29-year-old said.  
He said he’s curious to know 
why the holiday is such a big deal to Americans.
“All the U.S. people celebrate this 
holiday, and I want to know, like, how the people celebrate and what the reason, like, know about the holi-day,” he said.
A Time to Rest
Daeun Kim said she’s going to re-
lax this week.
The international student, who is 
studying at the English Language In-
stitute, is from South Korea. She said 
she won’t be doing anything during the break except hang out at home and spend time with friends.
Like Iguaran, Kim said she 
doesn’t quite understand the history of Thanksgiving, but she knows it’s 
centered around turkey. 
“It’s an American tradition,” she 
said.
She’s lived in the U.S. for three 
months. Back home, she studies 
business administration.
On Thursday, the 20-year-old said 
she may go to Busch Gardens with a friend, who is an international stu-dent from Venezuela. 
Back home, the closest thing to 
Thanksgiving is Chuseok, a three-day celebration of the autumnal har-vest in September, she said. People traditionally take the time to pay re-spects to the spirits of their ancestors by walking to their gravesites and praying with their families.
Families then come together to 
eat a meal of customary food, usu-ally consisting of songpyeon, which 
are Korean rice cakes, and sindoju, 
which is a rice wine.
Kim said she couldn’t go home to 
South Korea last Chuseok. She had recently arrived in Gainesville and needed to get accustomed to the city before her classes began. 
“Next holiday, I will go,” she said.
A Polish Thanksgiving
Nadia Blaszczyk celebrated her 
ﬁ  rst Thanksgiving in Poland two years ago.
As an American studies junior in 
Europe, she sat down for a big dinner 
with students and faculty within her 
department.
“We have Thanksgiving dinner 
every year with my professors and every student,” the 21-year-old said.
But this year, she’s in America, 
the home of the holiday.
She came to the U.S. at the start 
of Fall, and she hoped to learn more 
about American culture.
“I don’t know what to expect, so 
I’m really, really curious,” she said.
Come Thursday, she will once 
again be sitting at a feast, this time 
in Tampa. Blaszczyk said while this will be her ﬁ  rst authentic Thanksgiv-ing dinner, there may still be traces of her home at the table.
She was invited to Tampa by a 
friend she met at UF this year, whose parents are Polish. She said there may be Polish food, like pierogi, a Polish dumpling, alongside Ameri-can mainstays.
“It’s all about the food,” she said.Blaszczyk said she’s been trying 
to absorb as much American culture as she can, so she jumped at the chance to eat a traditional Thanks-
giving dinner.
“I think it is very important to 
actually get... the cultural side, too,” 
she said. “I think the cultural aspect of being here is, like, very impor-tant.”International students’ new traditions 
Holiday away from homeTwo months since he ended his first hun-
ger strike, Santa Fe College homeless student 
Danny Speagle began a second one Saturday.
This time, the 50-year-old computer science 
senior said he is going to continue until law-
makers in Tallahassee and Washington pro-
vide better assistance for disabled, homeless 
students like himself.
Earlier this semester, 
Speagle said the state cut his food assistance. He said 
he’s been denied health care since 2012.
“The minute I lost health 
care, I lost the ability to con-tinue,” he said.
At a downtown Star-
bucks Monday night, Speagle sat at the coun-ter playing Candy Crush on his HP laptop, with a large, white, Starbucks coffee mug nearby.
He’s living on vitamins, water and coffee 
now.
Speagle said he has multiple medical condi-
tions: depression, severe panic disorder, ADD, degenerative disk disease, congenital heart dis-ease.
“I’m hurting, I’m hurting everywhere,” he 
said.
He quit his job at UF for now, and he’s 
failed his classes. He can’t concentrate on his software development because he isn’t getting the medication and food stamps he says he 
needs.
“If I had medicine and food assistance, I’d 
be a rockstar,” he said.
In August, he met with Santa Fe College 
President Jackson Sasser to talk about his situ-
ation.
Sasser convinced Speagle to start eating 
again. He had a bowl of fruit that day. But nothing has changed since then, and now he’s 
demanding something be done.
“I can’t keep going on like this,” he said.
- Hunter WilliamsonBy Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
In the cold weather early Monday night, 
three Santa Fe College students and one ad-
viser pitched tents on the Oak Grove to ex-perience, for one night, what it’s like to be homeless.
Santa Fe hosted the event. As of press 
time, Recruitment and Training Director Ben-jamin Myers said six to seven people had ar-rived for the event.
Santa Fe Student Senate Pro-Tempore 
Matthew Pearson was one of the people who attended. The 24-year-old political science sophomore pitched his tent at about 5:30 p.m., just shortly before the sun fully set.“It’s already been a humbling experience,” 
Pearson said before the event began.
The event was announced at last week’s 
Santa Fe Student Senate meeting and adver-tised on eSantaFe’s homepage. It ran from 6 p.m. Monday to 6 a.m. today.
SG Events Chairman Jacobi Bedenfield 
said the idea was to let students simulate and experience for one night what it was like to be homeless.
On Saturday, Danny Speagle, a homeless 
Santa Fe student who gave SG the idea for the event, began a second hunger strike, demand-ing lawmakers in Tallahassee and Washing-ton better assist disabled, homeless students like himself.
“Wow, that’s crazy,” Bedenfield said 
when he heard about Speagle’s decision to go on a second hunger strike. “That’s why we’re bringing up this issue so we can do something about it.”
“If he’s on a hunger strike, I’ll fight with 
him,” Bedenfield said later.
Monday’s event was part of an initiative 
by Pearson and other SG members to help 
homeless college students. Pearson said he 
recently wrote a bill to present to Florida legis-latures to have colleges track and report their homeless student populations.
The goal is to put a spotlight on a prob-
lem colleges “overlook or don’t know about,” Pearson said.
With Speagle’s decision to go on a second 
hunger strike, Pearson said he would like to 
extend the event for another night. As of press 
time, a second event is unconfirmed.
to remove its affiliation to UF. She said other white student union pages for other universities had 
appeared over the weekend.
The University of Florida White 
Students Union page declined to 
comment. It wrote in a Facebook message that it was receiving death threats.
NC State University White Stu-
dent Union did not respond to a request for comment, and UNC Students for a White Student Union declined to comment over phone or email.
UF chemical engineering soph-
omore Matthew Bizer said he sus-pected the UF page was a hoax af-
ter noticing the other universities’ 
pages. He said he wrote this on the page, but it was deleted by the page’s administrators.
“I don’t think they’re UF stu-
dents,” the 19-year-old said. “I think it’s some outside group that wants to rile up some sort of sen-timent against Black Lives Matter and against refugees and immi-grants on campuses.”
Bizer said a student union is 
not something white people need.
“We don’t have a subculture; 
we have the predominant cul-ture,” he said. “That’s not how it should be, but it’s how it is.”
RACE,  from pg1Other universities have 
the same Facebook page
Santa Fe students experience homelessness
Speagle
Other Universities
“White Student Union” Face-
book pages are popping up at 
other universities, too. These are 
a few of the schools with pages:
• Florida International 
University
• University of Central Florida
• University of Mississippi
• University of Missouri
• Michigan State Universityparked half a mile down the road 
from The Family Church.
About 800 people walked 
through the church lobby past piec-es of Landon’s life.
A rocking chair held Air Force 
jackets and a Bible, opened to 2 Cor-inthians 4:9. His acoustic guitar and lacrosse gear sat nearby.
Banners signed by Eastside 
students hung on each side of the room. A white banner, blocked slightly by a tuba and photo collage, said “We love you, Landon.”  
After the choir played some of 
Landon’s favorite worship songs, his father took the stage to share what he described as a glimpse into his son’s life.
He mentioned Landon’s love for 
burritos, playing guitar and, above all, worshipping God.
“How can we have life without 
Landon?” Rogers asked.
He said he found his answer in 
the journal Landon kept and the stories shared by friends and family.
Landon’s sister Hannah spoke 
for a short time, fighting through both tears and laughter as she spoke in his memory, with her sister Lau-ren by her side.She said she can still see her 
brother waiting with a glass of wa-ter, adorned with a lemon slice and straw, as she finished a long run.
“He would just hand it to me and 
say, ‘Good job,’” Hannah said. “It’s simple, and there’s nothing really special about that moment, but it means a lot to me.”
Alexander Hayes, one of Land-
on’s fellow ROTC cadets, told the crowd it didn’t take long for Landon to affect his peers in Detachment 150.
He said Landon once sat in the 
back of a Jeep, waving his arms in the air and smiling as the wind passed across his face. He also joined his friends at Bento Cafe and paid for their meals with a pocket full of gift cards.
“We’ve all been impacted by 
him, even though we’ve only 
known him for a few months, and I 
can’t wait to see him again in heav-en one day,” Hayes said.
•   •   •
In his final journal entry, Landon 
wrote about heaven.
“Root your joy in what cannot be 
moved,” he wrote. “Set your mind on things above and obsess with 
heaven.”
At the funeral, Landon’s father said he found comfort knowing his 
son was in heaven, and members of the crowd nodded in agreement.
His legacy, however, will remain 
in Gainesville.
Days before the funeral, East-
side senior Thomas Tang, 17, said he heard about Landon’s death and promised to improve himself in honor of his friend’s memory.
“In his life, and even in his 
death, I feel like he’s pushing me to be a better person,” Tang said.
During the funeral, Landon’s 
former middle school basketball coach, Leroy Cotton, said he named his youngest son after Landon.
“This guy epitomized everything 
we should be, and if we had more people in the world like him, the world would be a much better place than it is,” Cotton said.
And Zhou, after reflecting on the 
day he and Rogers gave water to the homeless, offered the crowd a way to keep Rogers’ legacy alive.
“Landon embodied this mode 
of life and inspired others to do the same,” Zhou said. ”We can best honor him by picking up his torch and living the way he lived, and lov-ing the way he loved.” EPILOGUE,  from pg1About 800 people attended the memorial4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Clarinda Choice, left, a 29-year-old Santa Fe student leadership and activity specialist, and Jacobi Bedenfield, a 19-year-old 
Santa Fe agriculture freshman, chat under Santa Fe's Oak Grove on Monday night. Choice and Bedenfield were two of the participants who raised awareness for homelessness by camping overnight at the college.Hunger Strike: 
Round twoTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Guerdy Charles, a resident of Gainesville’s sister city, Jacmel, 
Haiti, serves dinner at the Voodoo in Gainesville Kreyol’ Culture Night on Monday. For $5, visitors could have a meal of diri ak pwa, a Haitian rice and bean dish; pikliz, a spicy pickled cabbage; and fried plantains.
LEFT: Wesley Jn. Charles, a se-nior voodoo priest from Jac-mel, Haiti, decorates the Poole Building with coffee and corn-starch. Haitian artists from Jacmel in the FOSAJ art collec-tive displayed art, taught tradi-tional dances and performed a voodoo ceremony to educate Gainesville residents about Haitian culture.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
BELOW: Wesley Jn. Charles (left) 
leads a group in a voodoo cer-emony on Monday night. The ceremony included chants and a moment of silence for the cri-sis in Haiti around a floor design called “Veve Milocan T oute Na-tion. ”
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Voodoo for Haiti
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Gerald Joannis, a resident of Gainesville’s sister city, Jacmel, Haiti, dances in the Poole Building during the Voodoo in Gainesville Kreyol’ Culture Night on Monday. Paintings by Haitian artists in the FOSAJ art collective lined the walls.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTrolling has 
no place in 
Thanksgiving break
Late Sunday evening, the Facebook feeds of many UF 
students became inundated with cries of outrage and disbelief over the purported existence of an exciting, 
new student organization: the University of Florida 
White Students Union! With a proﬁ  le picture proudly 
showing off Century Tower and a cover photo showing the Founding Fathers signing the Declaration of Independence, 
the page for this totally real and not at all ﬁ  ctitious group 
claims on its “About” page that it represents “a place to cel-ebrate the very beautiful European culture,” and wants to “encourage you to preserve your heritage by sharing it and discussing its future.”
Now, we’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit racism can be an insidi-
ous, subtle force that can be difﬁ  cult to discern, but… you know what? No. This is a pretty blatantly racist Facebook page.
Between claiming Native Americans didn’t ﬁ  ght hard 
enough to keep America to themselves and white people have no public place to express Eurocentric culture, the ad-min or admins behind the page made no secret of their white-superiority complex. Reasonable human beings commented 
on the page and argued with them, dumb arguments ensued, 
and you know the rest.
We’re not in the business of self-promotion here at the 
Alligator, but we’re not going to deny many of us thought 
something was rotten in the city of Gainesville. Lo and be-
hold, new reports have revealed such pages have been pop-ping up at various colleges all week, and next to none of them have any afﬁ  liation whatsoever with the colleges they identify with; the pages serve no purpose other than to troll 
and irritate people who have social lives beyond their key-
boards.
On one hand, this is great news: It’s reassuring to know 
any students at UF who may be racist are keeping it to them-
selves, rather than setting off on any misguided quests to 
preserve white supremacy. On the other hand, that doesn’t change the fact that many good-intentioned students took the bait, hook, line and sinker.
The phrase “don’t feed the trolls” didn’t emerge from a 
vacuum; there are several good reasons as to why one should tread carefully when arguing with seemingly indefensible po-sitions on the Internet. If you’re arguing with someone who seems adamant about raising awareness regarding the exis-
tential threats facing people with white skin, there is a con-
siderable possibility they take that train of thought even less seriously than you do. But seriously, don’t feed the trolls.
It is a very good thing Wednesday marks the beginning of 
our Thanksgiving Break. It represents a time when we will 
be thinking about anything BUT the rare bouts of awfulness 
we occasionally encounter here at UF. Regardless of any con-troversies surrounding the holiday (because what ISN’T con-troversial or offensive in this day and age?), take the holiday 
as an opportunity to rest and cherish your loved ones. Don’t 
waste it on trolls and hilariously inept racist dogma.
The sexual violence on college campuses 
is not an issue that can be swept under the rug. Universities have served as the focal point for media coverage, aware-ness campaigns and congressional legis-
lation in the discussion about sexual assault, regardless of whether they help or hinder the issue at hand. We’ve all experienced some off-shoot of this, whether it was through last year’s Walk Safe program, the Interfraternity Coun-cil’s “It’s On Us” campaign or UF’s Sexual As-sault Awareness month.
In an editorial two weeks ago, the Alligator cited a 
chilling statistic recently released by UF stating nearly one 
in ﬁ  ve women attending our university has been sexu-
ally assaulted. This simply isn’t something that can be ignored.
Earlier this year, three Republican representatives in-
troduced the Safe Campus Act to the House. It seeks to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965, most notably by preventing universities from investigating claims of sexual assault and battery unless victims additionally re-port to law enforcement. It should be noted this police re-
quirement applies solely to reports about sexual violence, 
which allows schools to investigate reports involving drugs, theft and other crimes on their own as violations of the student code of conduct.
Supporters of the bill point to the need for police in-
volvement in these cases, claiming without it the schools may violate students’ due process rights or fail to enforce an adequate punishment for perpetrators. These are valid claims, yet they fail to address the huge impact this provi-
sion would have on how victims go about reporting these 
incidents. The already abysmal rates at which sexual as-saults are reported would undoubtedly be hit hard by the added police requirement. This, unsurprisingly, is the main concern of the sexual assault advocacy groups that have vehemently opposed the bill.
Another noteworthy element in the debate surround-
ing the Safe Campus Act has been the involvement of the National Panhellenic Conference and North-American Interfraternity Conference. Both Greek organizations backed the bill through ex-tensive lobbying until earlier this month when both groups  withdrew support altogether af-
ter several fraternities and sororities spoke out 
against it. The NPC and NIC continue to sup-port the Fair Campus Act, a version of the Safe Campus Act without the aforementioned police report provision.
As public scrutiny of collegiate Greek life 
reaches a fever pitch, this is a single step in 
the right direction. While sexual violence is not a phe-nomenon unique to fraternity and sorority life, we cannot 
ignore that it’s a main component of the discussion. In 
the wake of Rolling Stone’s University of Virginia scandal, Greek life has come under increased scrutiny, with some even calling for its complete eradication from campuses. However, that isn’t going to solve the problem.
Greek organizations have the potential to make an in-
strumental impact on the culture and prevalence of sex-ual violence within collegiate environments. This stems directly from a Greek organization’s ability to unite stu-
dents and form a campus culture in which its members 
can interact and empower each other. Federal legislation alone isn’t going to fully eradicate sexual assault on cam-puses and neither will the NPC and NIC’s support of the Fair Campus Act. But it’s a start.
With the growing involvement of Congress, univer-
sities, law enforcement, media outlets and advocacy groups, the debate surrounding this topic has become in-creasingly convoluted in recent years. Uniting these large 
entities will allow for more effective steps against the 
prevalence of sexual violence. However, the key to the issue lies within the students themselves. Only by restruc-turing campus cultures and student communities will any real improvements be made, and it’s time for Greek orga-nizations, among others, to step up.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Is it enough to support the Safe Campus Act?
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
In light of the Charlie Hebdo 
shootings this past January, and the recent attacks in Paris, many have reacted by painting Islam and the Mid-
dle East as being fundamentally at odds with Western values such as free speech.
Then, reinforcing this west-
Islam dichotomy is the popular question: “Why do they hate us?” For ex-ample, Bill O’Reilly, in 2012, asked on his show, “What is it about Islam that makes these people have such hatred?”
However, the analog to the, “Why do 
they hate us?” question — what do we think of them? — is never considered. What do we Westerners, in fact, think of the Muslim community? According to a July 2014 Pew research study, about 41 percent of Ameri-cans view Muslims in a negative light, with only 38 percent claiming to know someone who is Muslim.
Before I delve any further, allow me 
to clarify: This is by no means a shallow, liberal or morally equivocal excuse for the actions of radically violent Muslims. How-ever, we must tamper and adjust our per-ceptions of the relationship between the West and Islam to match the reality on the ground.
Free speech, political transparency, free-
dom of expression and open satire: These are the values many call upon to distin-guish the West from the Middle East.
Well what if I told you, in spite of the 
utter turmoil and destruction of their home-land, many Iraqis actively call for, practice and engage in these values? A clear exam-ple is the “Albasheer Show.”
“ISIL is the most dangerous armed group 
in Iraq right now. Our part is to ﬁ  ght them with comedy,” Albasheer said.
Hosted by Iraqi journalist and comedian 
Ahmed Albasheer, the “Albasheer Show” closely models the vision and practice of Jon Stewart’s “Daily Show” by exposing internal political corruption and providing unhinged satire.
After sustaining devastating losses to his 
personal family and being kidnapped by Iraqi armed forces for six weeks, Ahmed relocated to Jordan and began recording the show, which he and his crew broadcast widely across the Internet.
In an interview with AJ+, 
Ahmed argues that, amid the lack of free media in Iraq and the devastating sectarian violence in the region, their show is unique because they “criticize every cor-rupt ofﬁ  cial in the government and also every armed group.”
In spite of the inherent danger 
in doing the show so successfully and so close to the heat of war against the Islamic State and the Syrian Civil War, Ahmmed sees his show as a force for good. 
“I believe that we are (helping) to im-
prove the situation in Iraq,” he said. “The show is changing minds, especially among the youth.”
And it’s not like the “Albasheer Show” 
is a nit-picky example of Iraqi-embraced free speech. Ahmed's show resonates deep-ly with the Iraqi citizenry and throughout the Middle East, with more than 22 million views on YouTube and more than 30 mil-lion views on Facebook.
So there we have it. Amid popular per-
ceptions of an inherently violent and mor-ally backward religion and region of the world, we see forces like the “Albasheer Show” resonating at a remarkable pace on a massive scale of Iraqis and Arabs.
While many pose free speech and satire 
as anti-Islamic, in reality, millions of Mus-lims hold these same values to the face of the same terrorists we oppose and ﬁ  ght. Perhaps it’s time we adjust the, “Why do they hate us?” question to represent the situation a bit more accurately.
“Why do (the Islamic State, terrorist 
groups and radical-violent Muslims) hate us (innocent civilians in both the West and Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Afghanistan and Paki-stan, and our shared values of freedom and peace)?”
And to the Western pundits who vora-
ciously argue, “Where are the moderates? Where’s the moderate outrage?” I say, here it is: the “Albasheer Show” and its millions of viewers. It’s time we open our eyes to the reality of the situation, rather than just our fears.
David Hoffman is a UF history and 
physics sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
'Albasheer Show': 'Daily Show' of IraqColumn
America is not and will never be a Christian na-tion.
Founding Father 
John Adams once noted 
this to the dismay of Conserva-tive Christians, saying, “The Government of the United States of America is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian reli-gion.”
Congruently, news of the U.S. drop 
in religiosity notes a decrease in Ameri-
cans who identify as Christians by nearly 
“eight percentage points,” according to the Washington Post’s report on a survey taken by the Pew Research Center.  
But if the well-documented history of 
America’s founders prioritizing a nation based on secularism isn’t enough, nor the data showing an overwhelming disinterest in organized religion, perhaps the scrutiny 
of the American right’s ignominious role 
in the Syrian refugee crisis is the best il-
lustration for how irrelevant Christianity has become.
As the Syrian diaspora seek refuge in 
all corners of the globe from the theo-
cratic oppression of Islamic State group, 
the despotic dominion of Bashar Al-Assad, and the bombing by Western and Russian powers, many here in the U.S. have rallied 
to refuse asylum. A call for the monitoring 
of certain mosques and labeling of Mus-
lims has also garnered support from some Conservative Christian Americans, Don-ald Trump leading such a rhetoric in his latest campaign speeches. Just this past weekend, demonstrators in Irving, Texas, took to the grounds of a Mosque armed with high-powered riﬂ  es to “Stop the Is-lamization of America.” Unsurprisingly, a campaign poster for Republican contender Ted Cruz, who has been vocal in promis-ing legislation to ban Muslim Syrians from seeking refuge in the States, accompanied the anti-Islam signs.
Notwithstanding the fact that Cruz 
is the son of a Cuban refugee who ﬂ  ed 
an oppressive regime to seek asylum in 
America, the great hypocrisy here is the abandonment of the ethics of Je-sus’ teachings that are so highly venerated in name but disre-garded in practice.
Now, I’ve never met Jesus, 
and I don’t pretend to talk to him. But I doubt his position on this matter would be to close the doors on those poor and war-torn populations that are most 
in need of shelter and an opportunity for a future. That’s not very Jesus-y. It prob-ably wouldn’t entail the scapegoating of 
moderate American Muslims either.
Sandals, carpentry, acceptance and not 
judging people: That’s what being Jesus is 
all about, man.
But more often than not, it is Conser-
vative Christian rhetoric that preaches the teachings of Jesus by doing un-Jesus-y things.
The ﬁ  ght to deny rights to gays and ac-
cess to Planned Parenthood for millions of 
women is constantly justiﬁ  ed by the appli-
cation of biblical texts and Jesus’ bearded glory. But Jesus never mentioned abortion or gay marriage at all, let alone as an act 
of apostasy.
Ah, but there I go again, getting all fac-
tual as I’m wont to do.
Those who have comfortably sub-
scribed to America’s latest potent brand of xenophobia argue that amid the swath of 
Syrians who seek shelter, there are bound 
to be radicals who will carry out devastat-ing attacks on American soil. These fears have stemmed from the Paris attacks. News of a Syrian passport found at the scene of the Bataclan attack fueled the ﬂ  ames of this prejudice, and even when French and German authorities discovered the passport to be stolen and/or fake, the fear mongering behind the original specu-lation never lost its potency.  
Because, with regards to the religious 
right, there is no commitment to the facts or to the moral faith of Christianity. There is only a commitment to hypocrisy.  
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe journalism 
junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.Refugees and religion: Conservative 
Christian teachings inﬂ  uence fearColumn
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.org
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
7327 NW 4th Blvd.
Gainesville, Fl 32607(352) 226-887510am - 10pm
See classified ad for
Where do I donate food?
If you have some extra cans in 
your pantry, you can donate them to local Gainesville charities before heading home for Thanksgiving.  
St. Francis House413 S. Main StreetTo celebrate Thanksgiving, St. 
Francis House will hold a feast from 10 a.m. until noon on Thursday. The downtown homeless shelter is accepting both nonperishable and refrigerated food items, including 
turkeys. Students can also bring 
clothes, towels and toiletries, or donate money online at stfrancis-housegnv.org.
UF Field and Fork Food Pantry564 Newell Drive
Located on campus next to Mc-
Carty Hall, the Field and Fork Food 
Pantry is open to any hungry UF student or faculty member. Students can bring nonperishable items to the pantry, which is open from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Tuesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Wednesdays and 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Fridays, according to its website. 
Toiletries, like shampoo and tooth-
paste, can also be donated. For more information or to donate money to the pantry, visit ﬁ  eldandfork.uﬂ  .edu.
What are good items to donate?
While you can donate canned 
corn, Thanksgiving-themed items are appreciated at local food banks. These items include:
 Boxed mashed potatoes
 Canned cranberry sauce
 Gravy packets
For green bean casserole: Canned 
green beans, canned mushroom soup, crispy onions
For cooking: Olive and canola 
oils, cooking sprayFor candied yams: Canned yams 
and mini marshmallows
For pumpkin pie: Canned pump-
kin pie mix, evaporated milk, pre-cooked pie crusts
What do I do if I can’t go home 
over the break?
If you can’t go home this Thanks-
giving, you can get a free Southern-style meal Wednesday at the Salva-tion Army, 639 E. University Ave. Sonny’s Real Pit Bar-B-Q selected the Salvation Army as a recipient of its 
“Random Acts of BBQ,” where the 
restaurant will donate meals to any-one in the community at 1 p.m. Call 352-240-6631 or visit the “Salvation Army — Gainesville Florida” Face-book page for more information.  
Helping the hungry this Thanksgiving
Happy
Thanksgiving
Ansley Pentz \ Alligator StaffTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
NW townhome to share. Large master suite, attached full bath and adjoining, sep. living/office. Maid service, cable, and ALL utilities included. Pool/tennis. $595/mo plus security. 352-281-3227.    11-30-15-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
11-25-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
ONLINE REAL ESTATE AUCTION – 721 Moody Bridge Rd., Cullowhee, NC. 3br/2bath home and 10 acres. Bidding starts Dec. 1st, 2015 Full details – BrooksAuctionServices.Com 864-379-1011. NCRE#25534, NCAUC#9822    11-24-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished12 Autos 5 Real Estate 8 ElectronicsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEEDSW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 
372-1226    12-9-15-21-14OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 
15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
COORDINATOR, friendly solo healthcare prac-tice. 10-14 hrs/wk. $11-14/hr. Pt. contact, records, accounts, HIPAA, ICD10 billing, scheduling, orga-nization/filing, phones, referrals. Non-smo.w/car. Spanish a+. FAX resume: 352-377-3193.    12-4-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    11-24-1-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator 
Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    11-24-1-14
ATTN: DriversGreat Money, Respect You DeserveHome For Christmas!$500 Holiday BonusBCBS + 401k + Pet & RiderCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com      11-24-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
tutoring available for undergraduatebiology, biochemistry and anatomy. 
9049940082    11-24-1-15
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a driver for Stevens Transport! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! New drivers can earn $800+ per week! PAID LOCAL CDL TRAINING! 1-888-743-1573 drive4stevens.com    11-24-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    11-24-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    11-24-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    11-24-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    11-24-1-16Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save! Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923    11-24-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    11-24-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
15 Services 19 Connections 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & Found 20 Event NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Amanda Butler and the 
Florida women's basketball team are eyeing revenge against Savannah State tonight at 7.  Read the story on pg. 16. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF swimming eyes USA Nationals
The UF men's and women's swimming and diving teams are looking ahead to the USA Swimming Nationals on Dec. 3 in Federal Way, Washington.  Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. 
The Gators barely avoided a 
massive letdown against the Florida Atlantic Owls on Sat-
urday, and the team is deplet-
ed at multiple positions. 
With UF’s biggest rival, FSU, 
coming to Gainesville on Saturday 
after Thanksgiving, the Gators must regroup to keep their College Foot-ball Playoff hopes alive. 
Against the Seminoles, Florida 
will face one of its toughest tests of 
the season: stopping running back 
Dalvin Cook. 
With this being our last paper of 
the week, this edition of the alliga-
torSports Brand Picks column will 
be running three days earlier than 
usual. 
Debating Saturday’s UCLA at No. 
24 USC game is alligatorSports editor 
Graham Hall and Alligator manag-ing/online editor Jordan McPherson. 
UCLA will win because…
I’m sure they don’t care if they 
win, they live in Los Angeles. It’s 
sunny, it’s fun, I’m happy and it’s 
Thanksgiving break. 
Mmmmmm, turkey. 
This is one of the rivalry games 
that people on the West Coast care 
about, but I would honestly rather 
watch an NBA game. Bruins are about to pull an upset and I can't wait to read about it the morning after. 
— Graham Hall
USC will win because…
You know what? I can’t believe 
you’re not amped for this game, Graham. If you can get excited for 
a women's basketball game you 
should be able to power through this matchup. 
It’s the battle for the gauntlet! 
It’s awesome and I’m definitely 
going to stay awake Saturday night 
until 2 a.m. and see this thriller con-
clude. 
Actually, the end of this semes-
ter, and the alligatorSports Brand PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 14
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Florida’s rush defense is one of the best 
in the country, but going into its rivalry 
game against Florida State, and against one of the best running backs in the country, the Gators’ defensive line will be limping into 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.Six guys who are contributors on UF’s de-
fensive line, including Alex McCalister and Jon Bullard, will either miss the game or 
be limited when the Seminoles’ workhorse, Dalvin Cook, comes into Gainesville.
Cook has been one of the best running 
backs in the country, striking fear into op-posing defenses with his pure talent.
“The guy’s a great guy. He’s a ﬁ  re breath-
er, he’s a glass eater,” Florida coach Jim McElwain said. 
“He’s a difference maker, so some guys 
in this college football they have ‘it.’ That every time they touch ‘it’ they can make ‘it’ happen and hit a homerun. And you know I hope we’ll be able to tackle the guy.”
Cook has been fantastic this season for 
Florida State.
In FSU’s ninth game against North Caroli-
na State, Cook broke Warrick Dunn’s school record of 1,242 yards in a single season.
Cook sits at 1,475 yards and 16 touch-Seminoles sophomore to test Gators defense
AIR JORDAN
What Johnny Townsend has done for the Gators this year is incredible.
Most casual football 
fans underestimate the 
power a punter brings to a team.
But with the inconsistencies 
surrounding Florida’s offense this year, Townsend has be-come a household name, making game-deciding plays in addition to being an unsung hero at times when it comes to the Gators’ success this season.
At the very least, he needs to be a ﬁ  nalist for the Ray Guy Award, giv-en annually to col-lege football’s best punter.
But I’m going to 
take that a step fur-ther.
Johnny  
Townsend should be Florida’s most valu-able player this sea-son.
Game after game, punt after 
punt, Townsend has been Flori-da’s most consistent playmaker.
He sets the de-
fense up for success when the offense 
fails to move the 
chains, using his powerful right leg to ﬂ  ip the ﬁ  eld.
“I don’t keep up 
with a lot of punt-ers but I can’t imag-
ine there’s another punter doing what he’s doing for us,” UF tight 
end Jake McGee said.Take Saturday’s overtime 
atrocity against Florida Atlantic 
as your most recent example.
The Gators, unable to move 
the ball against an Owls defense 
that ranked 91st in the country 
heading into the game, punt-ed the ball on nine of their 15 drives.
Six punts came on Florida’s 
ﬁ  rst seven drives, the seventh ending in a missed ﬁ  eld goal.
The ﬁ  nal three came in the 
fourth quarter of a tied ball game 
Townsend Time: Punter has been Florida's best weapon
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE COOK,  PAGE 15He was once committed to UF
FSU running back Dalvin Cook celebrates 
a touchdown run in the first half of the team's 52-13 win against Chattanooga in T allahassee on Saturday. 
AP PhotoPicks Column, can't come soon 
enough. 
— Jordan McPherson
Now onto the picks!
In first place with a record of 
50-44-2 is the Palm Beach Post’s 
Anthony “Grow a Pair” Chiang, who commended the Picks Col-umn committee for their intense and well-thought-out burns this 
semester. 
Come on, Chiang, we aren’t 
that mean. 
You’re actually just a big, 
cuddly bear, if said bear lived 
in a hell hole in unincorporated Dade County. 
We have a two way tie for 
second place, with both sporting records of 49-45-2.
First up is the Alligator Man-
aging/Online Editor Jordan “Drunk Turkey” McPherson, whose 21st birthday falls on this Thanksgiving. McPherson will be celebrating with enough liquor to 
kill a fully grown elephant, and 
he deserves it. 
Just make sure you don’t fi-
nally try to learn how to drive a 
car on the same night. 
Next is GatorCountry’s Nick 
“By the grace of God” de la Torre, who somehow rose up 
in the ranks this week despite a horrendous 3-5 outing. 
Congrats, Nick. Glad your in-
side source pulled through for you. 
You better show that person 
some affection or you might start dropping again.In fourth place with a record 
of 48-46-2 is alligatorSports as-sistant editor Luis “Creepy Stu-
dent” Torres, who turns 24 on 
Dec. 1 yet is still in his under-graduate level classes. 
Stop preying on the innocent 
freshmen, Luis. 
You may be a telecommuni-
cations major, but that doesn’t mean you can stand outside Bro-ward yelling “Please look at my 
package!”
In fifth place with a record of 
47-47-2 is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “Creepy Old Guy” Thomp-
son, who felt out of place after Saturday’s FAU game when he 
awkwardly passed by a group of female UF students while he 
was dragging his computer bag 
around. 
Don’t worry, Edgar. Once you figure out your golf 
game and how to function that 
new MacBook, you’ll be so far 
away from campus that you'll never have to worry about that again.
In sixth place with a record 
of 41-53-2 is alligatorSports edi-tor Graham “Butler Buddy” Hall, who will be sticking around his 
hometown of Gainesville during Thanksgiving to grind it out with 
the women’s basketball coach. 
Come on, Graham, you're an 
embarrassment to this office. 
There must be something bet-
ter you can do with your time. 
Maybe get some exercise after 
your belly will surely get bigger 
after Thanksgiving. 
In seventh place with a record 
40-54-2 is 247Sports’ Thomas 
“No Excuses” Goldkamp, who 
claims his terrible record this season is because he’s picking under protest. 
Nice try, Goldy, but I don't 
think you're losing on purpose. You can start by admitting you’re more annoying than a caffein-ated Landon when it comes to 
hearing you make excuses.
And STILL in dead-ass-last 
with a record of 39-55-2 is alli-
gatorSports staff writer Graham 
“Jeff Gordon sucks” Hack, who 
secretly despises the finally re-tired man behind the No. 24 car. 
Move on, Hack, nobody here 
cares about NASCAR. 
We're all frankly tired of hear-
ing about which car turned left the fastest. 14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
FSU (-1) vs UF  UF  FSU  UF  FSU
ND vs STAN (-3)  ND  ND  ND  NDBU (-1.5) vs TCU  BU  BU  BU  BUOSU vs UM (-2.5)  OSU  UM  UM  UMBAMA (-13.5) vs AU  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA
MISS (-2) vs MISS ST  MSU  MISS  MISS  MISS
TAMU vs LSU (-4.5)  LSU  TAMU  LSU  TAMU
OKLA (-4.5) vs OKST  OKLA  OKST  OKST  OKLA
  ET  AC  ND  TG
FSU (-1) vs UF  UF  FSU  FSU  UF
ND vs STAN (-3)  ND  STAN  ND  STAN
BU (-1.5) vs TCU  BU  BU  BU                   BU
OSU vs UM (-2.5)  UM  UM  OSU  OSU
BAMA (-13.5) vs AU  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA  AU
MISS (-2) vs MISS ST  MSU  MSU  MISS  MISS
TAMU vs LSU (-4.5)  LSU  TAMU  LSU  LSU
OKLA (-4.5) vs OKST  OKST  OKST  OKST  OKSTPICKS,  from pg 13between a top-10 Southeastern 
Conference team and a two-win Conference-USA opponent that was a 30-plus point underdog.
And each time Townsend went 
out to punt, he pinned the Owls deep in their territory, forcing their offense to face an uphill bat-tle each time they stepped foot on the field and giving the Gators an extra breath of life.On nine punts, Townsend aver-
aged 43.4 yards per punt, with five ending inside the FAU 10.
“The odds are against you the 
further backed up you are,” FAU coach Charlie Partridge said after 
the game.
Townsend and the Gators keep 
proving that statement this year.
This season, Townsend has al-
ready attempted 62 punts, which 
sits tied for ninth in school history for a season with at least three games to go. The redshirt sophomore is av-
eraging 43.82 yards per punt, with 18 travelling at least 50 yards, 25 pinning opponents inside their 20-yard line and just three rolling into the end zone for a touchback.
While Townsend’s numbers are 
still lower than former UF punter Kyle Christy’s 2012 season when he was named a finalist for the Ray Guy Award (66 punts, 45.8 yards/punt, 27 inside 20 yard line, six touchbacks), Townsend’s pres-ence is being equally felt this year.
Of the 25 drives where 
Townsend forced opponents to start inside their own red zone:• Fifteen ended in the opponent punting.
• Three ended in turnovers.
• Three ended with the end of a half.
• Two ended in touchdowns.
• Two ended in field goal at-
tempts, only one of which 
was made.
This year, opponents are start-
ing on average at their 21.8-yard line when they receive the ball on a punt. 
If opponents get the ball in 
any other way (takeaway, turn-
over on downs, kickoff or missed 
field goal), they start on average at their 26.6-yard line, an almost 5-yard advantage that makes more of a difference than most think.
The disparity is even greater as 
of late.
In the four games since UF’s 
loss to LSU, Townsend is pinning 
opponents on average to their 
17.7-yard line. 
Remove Townsend’s punts and 
opponents are beginning drives on average at their 24 in that span
“The guy’s a weapon,” UF 
coach Jim McElwain said.
That’s a good thing for the 
Gators because Florida hasn’t had 
very many of them over the past 
few years.
With UF getting ready for its 
home finale against No. 14 Florida State on Saturday and a date with the SEC West champion a week later in Atlanta, the Gators need Townsend to continue his recent kicking spree.
His performance will more than 
likely be the difference.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
downs through 10 games this year and ranks in the top-10 in rushing yards (sixth), yards per carry (fifth, 7.97), touchdowns (T-seventh, 16) and yards per 
game (third, 147.5).
Cook is also a threat out of 
the backfield catching the ball, 
as he has 19 receptions for 207 yards and one touchdown. 
He also has seven games 
this year where he’s rushed for more than 100 yards, with two of those contests being for more 
than 200 yards. 
To put it simply, Cook has the 
ability to carry FSU's offense at 
times. 
“He can hit the home run, 
he’s quick in the hole, he’s very fast,” cornerback Jalen Tabor said. 
“You get him in one-on-one 
situations and he can make you miss. He’ll catch out of the back-field. He has the whole package. He can pass protect.”  
Cook’s success also comes at 
the expense of the Gators. 
The Miami native was once 
committed to Florida under for-mer coach Will Muschamp, but 
he eventually flipped his com-
mitment to Jimbo Fisher and Florida State.  
“That guy is special now. 
He’s a real guy,” McElwain said. 
“Somebody told me he was 
committed here or something. Wonder how he ended up there.”
The Gators already faced a 
top-tier running back this sea-son: LSU's Leonard Fournette.
Entering the game on Oct. 17, 
Fournette was the front-runner for the Heisman Trophy, and he didn’t disappoint against Flori-da.
Fournette gashed the Gators’ 
defense to the tune of 180 yards 
and two touchdowns in the Ti-gers’ 35-28 win. 
His 180 yards is the most 
Florida’s defense has given to a 
single player this season.
While Fournette is more of 
a bruising runner, Cook brings some of those elements and then some. 
He’s a blur in the open field 
and once he makes a couple of guys miss, the Seminoles are 
normally looking at six points on 
the scoreboard.
“He’s a different runner than 
maybe the guy up at LSU,” McEl-wain said. 
“What do I mean by that, 
he’s probably got a little one-cut, one-step quickness and go. And yet he runs with power. He runs 
behind his pads.
“And I know that they use 
him and they get him the ball 
like they should. The guy is a difference maker.”
While Florida faced Fournette 
earlier in the season and have a matchup against Alabama’s Der-rick Henry potentially looming 
in the Southeastern Conference 
Championship on Dec. 5, Tabor said Cook is at a higher echelon than those two. 
The Gators will have their 
work cut out for them on Satur-day at 7:30 p.m.
“I feel like he’s the best run-
ning back in the country,” Tabor 
said. 
“You’ve got Chubb, Four-
nette, but if you break it down, 
I feel like Dalvin Cook is the best running back in the coun-try. Derrick Henry, everybody, 
Dalvin Cook is the best running 
back we’ll play all season.”
COOK,  from pg13Cook is sixth in the 
nation in rushing yardsBy Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
The Florida soccer team has mixed emo-
tions after its season came to an abrupt end 
on Sunday.
The No. 5 Gators lost 2-1 in the third 
round of the 2015 NCAA Tournament to the No. 20 Duke Blue Devils.
Coach Becky Burleigh praised the three-
player senior class, made up of midfielder Lauren Smith and defenders Claire Falknor and Christen Westphal, for having a large role in changing the program and thanked them for their contributions.
Burleigh said the emotions from the loss 
didn’t come with the result of the game, but rather from knowing that it would be the last time that specific team would play together. 
And the last time the three seniors 
would don a Florida uniform. 
“The hardest part of yesterday (Sunday) 
is knowing that that is the last time that team will be together as a group,” Burleigh 
said. “That’s the last time that team exists.
“Then the best part of it is that we have 
a really great group returning and we have 
a new class that will add to it and we get to start over but it’s sort of bittersweet.”
Throughout the season, Burleigh want-
ed her team to focus on progress. They did just that. 
The Gators (19-4-1, 8-2-1 Southeastern 
Conference) hadn’t lost a game since Sept. 27 leading up to Sunday’s loss to Duke.
Burleigh said the expectations for 
this year’s team got higher as the season pushed on.The Gators won the SEC regular season 
title and the SEC tournament this season and were eyeing their second straight ap-pearance in the quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament, but when that result failed to 
come to fruition, the team 
was emotional.
Following the loss to 
the Blue Devils (13-5-4, 
4-3-3 Atlantic Coast Con-
ference), Westphal and 
other players were visibly 
upset due to the lucid fact that this was the end of 
the line for this group that Burleigh said 
connected naturally.
“I think it’s not so much emotional 
about the game itself, it’s just that this 
team had a really authentic connection to 
one another,” Burleigh said. “Some teams 
you kind of have to make that happen, with this team it was really easy.
“I think when you realize that all that you put into the season and all that you put 
in with that connection, with that group of 
people and just like that, it’s done. That’s what makes it emotional.”
The Gators lose the three seniors to 
graduation and will become a different 
team opening up the Spring semester. 
Burleigh expects new players to step up 
and the entire feel of the team to be dif-
ferent.
“When we get back we’ll start to re-
organize and talk about what our Spring is going to look like and again that’s the bittersweet part of it, it’s a new team at that point,” Burleigh said. “When you take 
those three seniors out of the mix it’s defi-
nitely a new team.
“New people will emerge as leaders and 
we’ll have a whole new dynamic when the 
freshmen come in the summer, but certain-
ly we have a great starting point thanks to the three seniors.”UF soccer looks ahead to Spring after NCAA tourney exit
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Johnny T ownsend punts during Florida's 20-14 win over Florida At-
lantic on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
TOWNSEND,  from pg13Florida lost to Duke on Sunday
Burleigh
“Dalvin Cook is the best 
running back we'll play all 
season. ”
Jalen T abor
UF sophomore cornerback16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015
SAVANNAH STATE BEAT 
UF LAST SEASON. 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Despite a lack of name recogni-
tion, Savannah State’s women’s 
basketball team is not to be taken lightly. 
The Gators know that perhaps 
better than anyone, as they went into Savannah early last December and were handed a 68-58 loss at the hands of the Tigers.
This year, the Tigers will travel 
to Gainesville to take on the Gators in the O’Connell center tonight at 7. 
Despite only two starters remain-
ing from the team that beat Flori-
da less than a year ago, UF coach 
Amanda Butler knows that Savan-nah State is going to be a challenge. 
“(We’ve) had a couple days here 
to now get ready for Savannah State — a very tough, scrappy team that’s coming off a fantastic season last year and an NCAA tournament ap-pearance,” she said.
“That’s a team that has our full 
attention right now.”
The Gators are actually the mid-
dle of a Southeastern Conference sandwich for the Tigers, as Savan-nah State is coming off a loss at home to Auburn and will travel to Starkville, Mississippi, for a game with the Mississippi State Bulldogs 
on Sunday.“We don’t expect them to come 
in here and be shy or timid,” Butler 
said.
“They’re gonna come in despite 
the loss and there will be a little bit of confidence of we’ve already faced 
a team like you, meaning from the 
same conference. I think they’ll real-ly try to draw confidence from that.”
In addition, last season Savannah 
State had perhaps one of the most daunting non-conference schedules in the country. It included games at Arkansas and Auburn in addition to two top-ten teams in Florida State 
and South Carolina. 
So unlike the Kennesaw State 
team that rolled in this past Saturday 
and got beat handily by the Gators, Savannah State is battle tested. 
But the Gators are also battle 
tested, having already beaten a top-10 opponent in Florida State this season. 
That win, as well as the win 
against Kennesaw State, was an all-around team effort that was led by junior forward Ronni Williams and newcomers Tyshara Fleming, Sim-one Westbrook and Eleanna Chris-tinaki. 
Williams has been playing on 
another level following the season 
opener, in which she got into foul 
trouble early on and, as a result, played severely limited minutes. 
Butler said that she did talk to 
Williams about foul trouble, but also doesn’t want to limit her aggressive-ness.
“We weren’t gonna coach with foul fear and we didn’t want Ron-ni to play with foul fear,” she said in response to how Williams has stayed out of foul trouble since the opener.
As for the trio of newcomers, 
Westbrook is second on the team, averaging 10.7 points per game so far, Fleming is third in rebounds per game with 5.3 and Christinaki had 13 points, seven assists and four steals in the upset over FSU.
Butler isn’t surprised at all with 
how well the three of them have played, but did note that consisten-
cy is far more important than what 
they’ve shown in the season’s first three games. 
“Despite the statistics, I think 
the challenge for all three of them is gonna be kinda what I mentioned at the beginning. It’s consistency and not having great games and then having drop-offs, so having great 
games and then sustaining a high 
level of energy and a high level of high performance,” she said. 
While the Tigers may not have 
the prestige of Florida State, Butler said that staying focused on prepa-ration for the upcoming game hasn’t been a problem. 
It’s part of a game-by-game at-
titude that she and her staff have worked hard to instill in this year’s squad. 
“Our preparation for Savannah 
State is the most important,” she said. 
“It’s the biggest game of the year 
now.”
Gators seek revenge against Tigers
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams shoots during Florida’s 82-72 win over Florida State 
on Nov. 15 in the O’Connell Center. 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
INSTAGRAHAM
Technically, the Gators avoided the 
trap by beating Florida Atlantic, al-beit barely. 
But if UF is anywhere near the 
level of suck that the team was at 
against the Owls, Florida will surely fall to FSU on Saturday.
Jim McElwain certainly knows it, as 
Florida’s coach looked concerned on Mon-day when detailing the upcoming matchup.
“We’re a 10-win football team that’s 
still got a long ways to go in a lot of areas,” 
McElwain said. “We’ve got to complete 
passes when guys are open and create some explosive plays and consistency.”
The Gators may even be at the weakest 
level they’ve been at all season, and that’s concerning for a team with a realistic path to the College Football Playoff.
I won’t go as far as to say UF is inferior to 
FSU from a talent standpoint, but the Gators 
haven’t demonstrated enough on offense to 
make me think they’ll whip the Seminoles.
So far this season, I haven’t seen a Treon 
Harris-led offense consistently create big plays that create separation on the score-board.
Kelvin Taylor, for all he’s been for UF’s 
offense, isn’t the type of back with break-away speed to rack up touchdown after touchdown. FSU’s Dalvin Cook appears to be his superior. 
Jake McGee has been UF’s most con-
sistent threat in the receiving game while freshman Antonio Callaway is the team’s lone weapon that could seemingly saunter into the end zone every time he touches the ball.
These are red ﬂ  ags. These are signs of a team with an unbal-
anced offense that is 10-1 thanks to a few breaks going its way.
“I don’t think they deserved the East 
Carolina game, at all. I don’t think we de-served (to beat FAU) at all,” McElwain said. “But whether we deserved it or not we 
ﬁ  gured out a way to do it.”
Saying the team “ﬁ  gured out a way to 
do it” may be a vague way of saying “we developed a game plan to help us compete despite our inadequate talent level at mul-tiple positions.”
It’s harsh, I know, but it’s true. UF may be one of the weakest 10-1 teams 
a Power-Five conference has ever produced. 
But does that matter? The Gators are in this position, and how 
they’ve gotten here doesn’t matter anymore. 
Florida’s defensive unit has done enough 
to keep Florida in each game it’s played. 
The offense has found a way to make 
just enough plays to keep the team ahead.
McElwain said Monday he was embar-
rassed with how close the Gators have been in some of their games. He said he’s not satisﬁ  ed.
That’s how he needs to be.He can be happy Florida is in a position 
to capitalize on its potential, but satisﬁ  ed with where they’re at? Come on, it would 
take an ignorant fool to think there’s no 
room for improvement.
Everything that came before Saturday’s 
game will mean nothing if the Gators don’t beat the Seminoles. With the CFP still in the 
picture, the players need to realize that.
McElwain, to truly know what it is to be 
a “Florida coach,” needs to do anything he 
can to prepare the team to bury its biggest 
rival and keep “15 opportunities” a possi-
bility. After their worst game of the season, Gators in trouble against Seminoles
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain reacts after a play during Florida’s 20-14 overtime win 
against Florida Atlantic on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
