INSIDE
◗ With Billy Donovan approaching his 500th win, take a 
look back at how Donovan earned his first win.  
BACK
◗ The chance for win No. 500 gives life to an otherwise forgetful season. Read the column on Page 3 of Tipoff. 
 TIPOFFRICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
Billy Donovan has coached teams to the 
peak of college basketball’s mountaintop. 
Four Final Fours, two national champion-
ships, a perfect 18-0 conference regular season, 
six Southeastern Conference tournament titles 
and 16-straight 20-win seasons. 
He’s made Florida basketball a millennial 
powerhouse on the national level and he did it 
all at a football school. 
Now, he sits on the doorstep of yet another 
achievement after coaching his 499th victory Wednesday night against Vanderbilt. 
AlligatorSports spoke to some of the people 
that were integral in his first win as he nears 
the end of the chase for his 500th.
      
For much of the last 30 years, William John 
Donovan Jr. has been referred to affectionately 
as Billy the Kid. 
The high widow’s peak and jet-black hair 
matched with the numbers on his birth certifi-cate meant the nickname was automatic and fitting. 
But on his way to victory No. 1 — the win 
that started his ascent to Hall of Fame status — the man whose approval had to be given in or-der for him to be hired as the head coach of the Marshall Thundering Herd actually thought Billy Donovan was in fact a kid.
“So I take him by the (university) presi-
dent’s house because he’s got to bless it, and Billy walks in and I introduced him and the 
president wasn’t quite on the same page and 
we walk in and he says ‘well let’s go in the other room’ and the president says ‘now what sport does this kid play?’” former Marshall athletics director Lee Moon said. “Billy looked like he was 15. Billy hadn’t started shaving I don’t think.”
Moon had made it a habit of hiring assis-
tants to fill his vacant head coaching positions 
across all sports. 
He had been passed over as a younger man 
for a head coaching position at his alma mater 
he felt he was more than qualified for as an as-sistant and from there, his belief in hiring as-sistants grew. 
He zeroed in on two men in early 1994: cur-
rent Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey — then an assistant at Duke — and Donovan, who was 
an assistant on Rick Pitino’s Kentucky coach-
ing staff at the time. Brey passed on the offer, and Moon got on a plane to Lexington, Ken-tucky, to see if he had found his man in the 28-year-old Donovan.
Given complete access by Pitino, Moon 
went to practice, he watched game tape with Donovan until two in the morning to get a feel for how the young coach viewed the game and 
then went through a complete gameday with 
the Kentucky program. He spoke to the Wild-cat players who told him Donovan was a play-er’s coach they could easily communicate with.
For four decades as an administrator, Moon 
has been fascinated by watching huddles — he does that because he wants to see how much the assistants he’s going after actually coach. Moon watched Donovan command the bench, 
as if he were a head lieutenant under Pitino. 
He watched Donovan communicate with play-ers more than any other assistant. Then, he for-mally interviewed Donovan and knew he had his man.
“For me it was really, really good when I 
interviewed him, I knew he was the right guy,” Moon said. “I have a buzzword I’ve used for the last 40 years called urgency. I have a line 
of questions that I ask and I’ve been using the 
same questions for 40 years since I’ve been an AD, 27 years I guess it is, and I’ve used the same format. I know the answers I want but I find out if the assistant is really prepared.”
Days later, on the night Donovan was con-
fused for someone not old enough to obtain a driver’s license by Marshall president James Wade Gilley, Moon was asked a simple ques-
tion by his boss “‘you really think he’s ready?’” 
Gilley inquired. 
Moon responded bluntly, “absolutely.”
      
In March of 1994, Donovan was announced 
as the 12th head coach of the Thundering Herd since 1935, and it was then that he was intro-duced to the school and his future team — he was the youngest Division I head coach at the 
time.
“The first time we saw him was actually 
the press conference him being announced on 
campus,” said Doug Schieppe, one of seven se-niors on Donovan’s first team and now a high school basketball coach and teacher. “Antici-pation was high. We were pretty excited and I mean just the fact that when he came up here, 
even at a young age, his professionalism (and) 
just his demeanor, we were all nervous, obvi-ously, getting a new coach. We don’t know who he is. We’re seniors — pretty much all of us were seniors and we just went through a pretty rough season.”
The year before, a “poorly coached” team 
lacking in intensity, according to Moon, fin-ished 9-18 — seventh in the Southern Confer-
ence. In Donovan’s first year, they flipped that 
record and won the conference’s North Divi-sion. Donovan carried himself immediately with an intensity and a confidence that was noticed by all, including Tom Weber.
Weber was a graduate assistant in the Mar-
shall communications department in his mid-20s in 1994. He was, in his own words, “the low man on the totem pole.” There was a bit of 
a worry that Donovan, who was a New Yorker 
and enjoyed notoriety piloting Providence to the Final Four as a player and came most re-cently from the cradle of college basketball his-tory at Kentucky, would bring with him an air of condescension. 
Weber’s first impressions upon meeting the 
man however, were the exact opposite.
“From the lowliest grad assistant to the ath-
letics director he treated everybody the same and treated everybody well and was genuinely interested in getting to know you as a person,” Weber said.
For Weber, “getting to know you” meant 
an invitation to the 6 a.m. staff basketball game. Donovan hired assistant coaches John Pelphrey, Anthony Grant and retained Don-nie Jones from the previous staff. Jones played 
college basketball at Pikeville, Grant at Dayton 
and Pelphrey at Kentucky. 
All three were younger than Donovan and 
still spry enough to scrimmage against the actual Marshall team when numbers necessi-tated it in preseason practice. But it also meant pickup games were athletic and competitive, so much so that Pelphrey and Grant had to be on separate teams. But whichever team had Donovan was typically the winner. 
Weber remembers Donovan still having 
“it” during the games, but that didn’t mean he didn’t exhibit gamesmanship to get an edge.
“I remember playing a game and getting 
so excited about getting a rebound and then 
dribbling up the court, he would do this thing 
where he would say ‘Tom, Tom, throw me the ball,’” Weber said. “And he’d say it in such a way and you’d throw it to him immediately — problem was he was on the other team and he’d take it the other way for a layup.
“He got me on that at least once or twice, 
but he’d get everyone on that because when he said something in that tone of voice you just 
did whatever he said, he was the head coach.”
      
When Donovan was hired, Chris Gray was 
a high school senior in Bethesda, Maryland. He 
would soon become the first signee in Dono-van’s head coaching career. 
Before Donovan was showing up at Mc-
Donald’s All-American Mike Miller’s doorstep just after midnight to beat the crowd for his 
services, there was Gray.
“You don’t just pick a program for the aca-
demics,” Gray said. “You’re not just picking it 
for the success or the failures of a basketball program. The coach has a lot to do with that. It’s an extension of your upbringing and what you’re accustomed to. And my parents and myself felt at ease knowing that Billy and the guys would kinda take players like me under 
their wing. It’s one thing to be a player and 
another to raise or produce quality individu-als and those guys collectively instilled that in each and every last one of us.”
Gray was attracted to Donovan as a stu-
dent of the game. He didn’t know what exactly Donovan would be like as a head coach — no one did — but he was familiar with him as a player and respected him because of it.
As Gray looks back at Donovan’s successes 
over the years, he said it’s a testament to how Donovan matches physicality and mental toughness with his team.
“Anyone can teach somebody how to put 
a ball in a basket or run a play, but what are they doing after that?” Gray said. “And I think that’s the true testament to your staff and who you have in place.”
As the season opener against Bluefield Col-
lege approached, one thing was clear: Dono-van’s basketball team was going to run, and they were going to run a lot.
“When we first started preseason workouts 
and conditioning and so forth, I’m sitting there looking around after we get done running, and 
I’m like ‘guys we’re running more than the 
track team’ honest to God truth,” Gray said.
But it wasn’t just the newcomer Gray, still 
trying to get adjusted to college, who wasn’t ready for the pace of Donovan’s offense.
“The first day, the first couple weeks of 
practice people were throwing up, not used to the running, not used to being pushed to the point of where you weren’t tired,” said Shawn 
Moore, the leading scorer for the Thundering 
Herd the previous season, and the player who would again lead the team in scoring in 1994-1995. 
“You just thought you were tired and he 
brought that — hey you can push past when you think you’re tired and get more out of yourself than what you think.”
As Donovan got the team ready to play, 
Moore was happy about its new direction and a tempo that he said only Nolan Richardson’s 40-minutes-of-hell system at Arkansas was running at the time.
“I was excited because that’s the style of 
play I wanted to play,” Moore said, “and hear-ing him talk it made me want to work harder to say ‘hey, if this is the style of play and I al-ready know I can score I think I can get a lot 
more easier baskets in his offense.’”
Moore took 150 three pointers in the first 
year under Donovan, 72 more than the season 
before, and Marshall averaged 84.4 points per game, almost 11 more than the previous year.
As former Marshall play-by-play man Stan 
Cotten referred to it, the style of play was “baseline to baseline press the whole time, just kind of crazy,” with “quick shots and long-
shots.” 
This was Billy Ball.
There was an idea of what it would be, what 
the Pitino student would bring to Marshall, but once fans saw it for themselves in person, the impact was immediate.
“It was just a different type of a basket-
ball that he brought, and he really raised eye-brows,” Cotten said. “It was fun to watch. 
Never a dull moment all those types of things. 
It just brought people into the Henderson Cen-ter to watch, and it didn’t take long. He really started changing that program around over-night.”
      
Donovan’s head coaching career got off to 
probably the worst possible start anyone could imagine in game one. On the first offensive 
possession, Donovan’s much-talked-about high-tempo offense promptly turned the ball 
over against Division III Bluefield College. It also missed its first 10 three-point shots. But the Thundering Herd soon got it together, 
blowing out the lesser opponent 112-67 on 
Nov. 26, 1994.
On offense, Marshall scored 61 first half 
points, a season high en route to the victory and took a school record 33 threes.
Moore had 21 points of his own, with 17 of 
them coming in the first half while Schieppe had a career-high with 29, including seven three-pointers -- two short of the school record 
at the time. He missed his first shot then made 
six straight, after Donovan told him to get it in gear.
“I really thought Doug was scared and ex-
tremely nervous at the start of the game,” Don-ovan told reporters after his first career win. “I pulled him aside and said: ‘Doug, you’re play-ing way too nervous. Now go back out there. If you’ve got the shot, shoot it.’” 
On defense, the Thundering Herd forced 36 
turnovers and recorded 20 steals — still second all-time in program history in records dating back to 1975. 
The performance wasn’t without flaws 
on the defensive end either, as Marshall was outrebounded 49-44 by Bluefield, something the Charleston Gazette called “the most vex-ing” thing about the game for Donovan and 
the team. But the new head coach was pleased 
with how his team finished with its foot on the gas.
“There’s a tendency when you get a lead 
like that for the second half to be showtime — just making spectacular plays,” Donovan told reporters that night. “But I thought, for the most part, we played unselfishly, made the ex-tra pass and executed.”
      
There is a reverence for Donovan from 
those that were there with him at the begin-ning. Garry Richter, a former Marshall sports information director, said in his 23 years in the business, he could not think of anyone he had more respect for than Donovan.
“He was just the top,” Richter said.For Schieppe, he years have passed, and 
the former player from Donovan’s first team at Marshall had fallen out of regular correspon-dence with his old coach. But in advance of a banquet for his boys basketball team, Schieppe called UF and received a handwritten note of encouragement from Donovan that he shared with his team. On a recent family vacation to Disney, the Schieppe family was introduced to Donovan. 
Schieppe says it’s exciting that his own son, 
now a freshman in high school, knows who Donovan is.
“If he’s a disciple of Pitino, I guess I’m a 
disciple of Donovan in my small, little way in my small, little town in southern Illinois,” Schieppe said. “…He’s a genuine guy. He’s a family guy. He takes care of assistants with 
Pelphrey and coach Grant and coach Jones. Those are the guys that were there when I was at Marshall, just a really good group of guys. I’m grateful that I have the stories and the memories that I have.”
Stan Cotten is now a play-by-play man with 
Wake Forest and caught up with Donovan for a few minutes in December when the Gators beat the Demon Deacons in South Florida. 
He said upon Donovan’s exit from Marshall 
that he knew he’d follow Donovan’s career wherever it went.
And it’s been to the highest heights of col-
lege basketball, taking a football school and 
making it basketball-mad, attracting top re-
cruits and achieving feats like back-to-back national championships, things that only the Dukes, the Kentuckys and the UCLAs of the world are supposed to do.
“I remember visiting Billy in his office in 
Huntington (West Virginia) after he had taken the Florida job,” Cotten said. “I think he had been into a meeting with the President or 
somebody at the university, and they weren’t 
all that happy with Billy for leaving. And he’s like ‘you gotta be kidding me. This is Florida. This is the SEC. This is a great opportunity,’ and I just knew he was ready, just knew that he was gonna do great and what a great get he was for Jeremy Foley and the University. 
“And wow did he deliver.”When you listen to Donovan speak now, he 
seems to talk more about off-the-court things than he does the X’s and O’s. 
He talks about the adversity the game 
throws at players and the lessons learned pre-pares players for life. 
He does it at Florida the same way he did 
21 years ago at Marshall. The same way an-other Donovan disciple, Shawn Moore, said he does with his team at the Oakwood School in 
Greensboro, North Carolina, because Donovan 
first did it with him in Huntington.
Billy the Kid is now Billy the Man, and he 
has been for quite some time. 
He’ll turn 50 later this year and according 
to those who were with him at the beginning, his longevity can be traced to remaining true to the values that got him where he is today. They say he hasn’t changed — except for how 
he deals with officials.
Soon Billy Donovan will coach a team to his 
500th win. If he can do it by the end of this sea-
son, he will be the second-youngest coach in Division I college basketball history to do so, according to UF.
Twenty years later, it’s clear Lee Moon was 
on to something when he said Donovan was ready. Moon’s been proven right 499 times — 
and counting.
Details and quotes from a game story published 
in the Charleston Gazette were used in this story.The path to a milestone
Cover illustration photo Jordan McPherson
Alligator, Friday, Feb. 20,2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF men’s basketball coach Billy Donovan points out to the crowd after winning the 2014 Southeastern Conference Tournament cham-
pionship in Atlanta. Donovan has won 499 games as a collegiate men’s basketball head coach, with his first win coming on Nov. 26, 1994, during Marshall’s 112-67 win against Bluefield College.
First career win as a head coach 
(Nov. 26; 112-67 vs. Bluefield 
College) 
First time defeating a ranked op -
ponent while coaching at Florida 
(Jan. 5; 75-62 vs. No. 22 Arkansas) 
First win in the NCAA T ournament 
(March 11; 75-61 vs. Pennsylva -
nia)  
 
First Final Four win (April 1; 71-59 
against North Carolina) 
First SEC tourney championship 
win (March 13, 2005; 70-53 win 
against Kentucky in Atlanta) 
First National Championship 
(April 3; 73-57 against No. 2-seed 
UCLA) 
Finished regular-season SEC play 
18-0 (March 8; 84-65 vs. Kentucky) First win as Florida’s head coach (Nov. 22; 80-63 vs. UCF) 
First Southeastern Conference win 
(Jan. 5; 75-62 against Arkansas in O’Connell Center) 
First win against Kentucky (Feb. 1; 
86-78 in Rupp Arena)
Career Win No. 100 (Feb. 2; 86-82 
vs. South Carolina) 
First win while being ranked No. 1 
(Feb. 8; 74-55 against Alabama) 
Win No. 250 (Feb. 15; 73-68 vs. 
Vanderbilt)
Second National Championship (April 2; 84-75 against Ohio State) 
Career win No. 500??1994
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2000
2003
2005
2005
2006
2006
2014
?????Billy D Career Timeline
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan has reached numerous milestones throughout his 21-year career as a collegiate men’s basketball coach, including 
becoming the first coach to go 18-0 in regular-season SEC play after defeating Kentucky 84-65 on March 8.VOLUME 109 ISSUE 106 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Meet the candidates for next week’s SG election
VPs and presidents for Swamp and Access, pg 5.  
Edward Sharpe band to make itself at home tonight
The SGP concert is free on Flavet Field at 7:30, pg 11. Sophomore attacker rebounding from 
slow start to season
Burgess scored six goals in two games, pg. 16
Bailey Castro 
and the UF softball 
team will play ﬁ  ve 
home games this 
weekend. Read the 
story on page 14.
55/32
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 8CROSSWORD  10SPORTS 14
Susan Huang / Alligator
Xuan Ooi, an 18-year-old UF exploratory engineering freshman, peers through the mouth of her lion costume 
as she performs a lion dance to the sound of the drum outside Bento Cafe on Archer Road on Thursday. Jia-Uet Chen, also an 18-year- old UF freshman, sets the beat for the dance, which celebrates Chinese New Year.A new year in Gainesville
 THE BUILDING WILL BE 
RENOVATED.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
Norman Hall was complet-
ed six years before World War 
II began.
Looking at a picture of some 
machinery found within the 
bowels of the building, all Mori 
Hosseini, chairman of the State University Board of Governors, could say was, “That’s old.”
The historic hall will be re-
ceiving a facelift, however, after the Board of Governors unani-mously approved a request by UF on Thursday for money to 
renovate the building.
According to the presenta-
tion given to board members, Norman Hall, home to the Col-lege of Education, has received 
only minor updates over its 80-year history. The approved project will modernize the building, which is listed on the National Historic Registry.
While the project is esti-
mated to cost $24.4 million, the approved request for the 2015-
2016 year is for $8 million. The 
project aims to start in April 2016 and end in August 2017.
The money will be used to 
restore the brick, replace old electrical and plumbing sys-tems, restore the library and add a new conference facility.
“It is well past its time for 
renovation,” said Chris Kins-ley, ﬁ  nance and facilities assis-tant vice chancellor, who made the presentation to the board.
The board members mo-
tioned to pass the request be-
fore Kinsley even ﬁ  nished his 
presentation.Funding passed for 
Norman Hall project
CAMPUS
KIARA BEARD
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 22 percent of the freshmen 
admitted into UF’s Class of 2019 
won’t have the average start. 
Out of the 13,667 freshman ad-
mitted to UF last week, 3,118 were 
accepted through Pathway to Cam-
pus Enrollment, or PaCE, a joint program that combines online and residential learning to accommo-date the overﬂ  ow of applicants for Fall 2015.
Students will begin their col-
lege careers online by earning 60 credits before coming to campus, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said. Then they are guaranteed admission 
as a residential student for the next 
two years.
“It (PaCE) tells a student you’ve 
been admitted to the university, and you can come in through UF online once you have completed 60 cred-its,” Orlando said.
Students can enter the program with up to 45 credits earned from AP, IB, dual enrollment or other ac-celerated methods, Orlando said.
Students enrolled in PaCE will 
receive a 25 percent tuition discount that doesn’t include some of the fees on-campus students have to pay. 
This and the GPA requirements mir-
ror the conditions of UF Online.
High school senior Natalie Ros-
sian, 17, was accepted into the PaCE program, but she said she is unsure if accepting the offer will deny her a full college experience.
Rossian, who attends Dr. Mi-
chael M. Krop Senior High School 
in Miami-Dade County, contacted 
UF to see if the plan was to isolate students enrolled in the PaCE pro-gram. She said she was told there were no plans because the program is so new.
“If I knew that socially I would 
be with other people and not just living off of UF ... then I would do 
it,” she said, “but I would need that 
reassurance.”UF introduces hybrid 
program for freshmen
CARLA VIANNA and EMILEE BELL
Alligator Staff Writer and Alligator Contributing Writer
Two pairs of black sneakers stuck out from un-
derneath the golden lion’s legs Thursday evening.
They belonged to Xuan Ooi and Yvonne Yeung, 
two UF students who gave life to 7 feet of fabric, 
gold sequins and cotton frills. Ooi wore the giant lion head, ﬂ  apping its mouth and eyelashes to the beat of a drum, while Yeung controlled its tail. 
Draped in the traditional Chinese costume, the duo 
performed at Bento Cafe on Archer Road to ring in the Chinese New Year.
About 15 spectators huddled together in the ﬁ  n-ger-numbing cold to watch the ﬁ  ve-minute routine.
Bento general manager Johnny Tung, 34, said 
the Asian eatery partnered with UF’s Chinese American Student Association to celebrate the holi-day for the ﬁ  rst time. He plans on continuing the tradition from here on out.
Ooi said this was her sixth year leading a lion 
dance.
“It’s one of my favorite things to do,” said Ooi, 
an exploratory engineering freshman. “It’s not only having fun, but it’s also bringing the aspect of Chi-nese culture to other people.”
SEE CHINESE, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 106 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
RAIN
66/45PARTLY 
CLOUDY
77/50SUNNY
81/54PARTLY 
CLOUDY
73/48SUNNY
53/32
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. to promote the event as well 
as in the aftermath as a visual reminder of how the Gator community takes a stand against sexual violence. If this 
project interests you, please 
email victim advocate Annie Carper at annekcarper@ufl.edu.
Disc Golf tournament
Register for the Disc Golf tour-nament, which will be played on the 18-hole disc golf course 
at Lake Wauburg’s South 
Shore on Saturday. The tour-nament will have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three divisions: Men’s Amateur, Women’s Amateur and Advanced. The top three participants in each division will receive a prize. There will 
also be two contests, Longest 
Drive and Closest to the Pin, during the event. The win-ners will also receive prizes. To register, visit rsconnect.recsports.ufl.edu.
Midterm Relaxation Week at 
Library West
Take a break from study-
ing and join the Library Ambassadors for these relax-ing activities at Library West. Monday Kim and Zeus the Service Dog will be in the building from 3 to 5 p.m. Tuesday on the second floor near the circulation desk, cof-
fee and donut holes will be 
available from 10 to 11 a.m. Wednesday there will be chair massages in Room 212 from 4 to 6 p.m. Thursday on the second floor near the cir-culation desk, there will be a pizza and fiction book give-away from 5 to 6 p.m.
‘Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and Roll’Hear history come to life Thursday with a multimedia presentation by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa 
Red and Hokum Blues: Early 
Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum, examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for musical sensations of the 1950s. 
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college stu-dents, especially when strug-gling with a queer identity as a woman. Finding opportu-nities to socialize with other queer women and release stress is rare. LGBT Affairs 
is offering a weekly discus-
sion group that will connect you with other queer ladies in the area to chat, hang out and learn more about your-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Mr. Burns, A Post-Electric Play,’ 
opens at the Hippodrome TheatreHailed by audiences and critics alike, this new comedy by Anne 
Washburn can only be defined 
as the most innovative, imagi-native and captivating produc-tion to hit the stage in years. Set in a post-apocalyptic world, “Mr. Burns” follows a new civi-lization that uses current pop culture references, including TV’s longest-running hit show 
“The Simpsons,” to frame its 
present. It explores what will endure when the grid fails, so-ciety crumbles and we’re faced with the task of rebuilding. A New York Times Top 10 Play of 2013 and a sold-out suc-cess in New York and London, “Mr. Burns” is now on stage 
for the first time in Florida at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre. Student tickets are $15 with a Gator 1 Card, and adult tickets are $20 for the first week of per-formances. It will be on stage through March 15.
‘Thread of Silver and Gold’
A staged reading of a new play by UF alumna Deborah B. Dickey, “Threads of Silver and Gold: Women of the Panama Canal,” will take place at 7 p.m. tonight at the Hippodrome Cinema. The play gives voice to the women who arrived from the West Indies, England and 
the U.S. during the period of 
the construction of the Panama Canal. It will be followed by a reception and discussion with the audience, actors, playwright and a panel of UF faculty mem-bers. Sponsored by the Center for the Humanities in the Public Sphere, with support from the 
Rothman endowment, the play 
is presented by the George A. Smathers Libraries at UF with additional support from the university’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and the Center for the Study of Race and Race Relations. The event is free and open to the public.
 
GatorNights
Jay Gatsby cordially invites ev-
eryone to the Mardi Gras party of the century Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. Swing dance the night away with live music from Gainesville Big Band, dress the 
part in flapper headbands and 
learn your fortune from a palm reader, all while enjoying Mardi Gras food. Watch the block-buster movie “Interstellar” in the Reitz Union Auditorium at 8 and 10:45 p.m. It’s always free with a Gator 1 Card.
Take Back the Night
The Office of Victim Services, in collaboration with STRIVE and other campus organizations, is looking for an artist to use his or her gifts toward making a creative stand against sexual violence. Take Back the Night is an annual event to “Shatter the 
Silence” of sexual violence, tak-
ing place on April 1. They’d like to see a student help develop a 3-D art piece that can be used self and others. It is at 7:30 p.m. 
every Wednesday in Peabody 
Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Public meeting for Save Our 
SuwanneeSave Our Suwannee is hosting a free public education presen-tation. Robert Knight will pres-ent “Restoring the Suwannee 
— A Hopeful Future.” He will 
talk about the current scientific understanding of impairments, their causes and effects and lay out a comprehensive plan for restoration and protection. It will be at 7 p.m. Feb. 27 in the Great Outdoors Ballroom at 65 N. Main St. in High Springs. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear.
CORRECTION
In a story that ran Wednesday 
under the headline “SG debate highlights party platforms, draws crowd,” it was inaccu-rately stated that there were ten questions, plus two from the audience. There were only eight questions with two from the audience. Additionally, Kerrie Montgomery never spoke dur-ing the debate, nor did she ap-pear on stage to be tied to this statement. This was stated by moderator Mike Foley during the welcoming remarks.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
STATE
LOCALCAITLIN SINETT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Florida school police officers 
are turning to a new way of detect-
ing guns in schools, but it doesn’t beep.
It barks.Boca Raton Community High 
School raised about $7,000 in do-nations to get a new gun-sniffing K-9 for the school district, said Su-sie King, an assistant principal at the school. It had to retire its old gun dogs about five years ago, and the program was put on hold.
The new dog will join the 
School District of Palm Beach County’s team currently made up of Tango and Jake, two drug-sniff-
ing dogs, and Kash, a bloodhound 
who is trained to search for miss-
ing people.
But in Alachua County, school 
officials haven’t considering get-
ting a gun-detecting K-9.
Alachua County School District Public Information Officer Jackie 
Johnson said the school district does not have these kinds of dogs, and as far as she knows, the board has never even discussed the topic.
The sheriff’s office doesn’t 
have gun-sniffing K-9s either, but it does have dogs that search for articles such as weapons, clothing and narcotics. But this means the dogs don’t search for gun odors. They only search for human scents on those articles.
King said Palm Beach County 
School District’s 14-month-old Maggie, a Danish shepherd, is be-ing trained by the U.S. K-9 Acad-
emy and Police Dog Training Cen-
ter in Hialeah, Florida. 
King said Maggie found her 
first gun on her sixth day of train-
ing. Maggie and her human com-
panion will teach students conflict-
resolution skills in classrooms in 
addition to searching campuses for guns. King said she started a K-9 club at the school to raise addition-al funds to purchase another dog.
Miami-Dade County and Pinel-
las County school districts added gun-detecting dogs in 2014, said Peter Nunez, training director at the U.S. K-9 Academy.
When Pinellas County School 
District Officer David Harrison drives to a school, students see the white paint on his car that reads:
“Firearms Detection K-9 ‘Roo’ 
On Board. Making our schools safer, one sniff at a time.”
Harrison said his gun-sniffing 
K-9, a 2-year-old yellow Labrador retriever, makes students think twice before bringing guns onto 
campus.
Firearm-detecting dogs are 
more of a deterrent than anything 
else because students know if they bring them on campus, Roo’s wet, 
black nose will sniff them out, Har-
rison said. 
But the dogs don’t just deter 
students from bringing guns to 
schools. Some students mistake Roo for a drug dog. When Harri-son and Roo arrive, the flushing of toilets can be heard throughout the school.
Both Palm Beach and Pinellas 
County school districts chose to get these dogs to keep schools safe.  The dogs can smell the odors of the gun that officers can’t see.
“Guns are becoming more 
prevalent in society, and our school system mirrors society,” Harrison said.
The dogs and their officers go 
through a training period when the dogs detect gun odors through scent association, and if they smell 
those odors, they sit and wait for 
instructions from the officer. Har-
rison said when Roo finds a gun, she sits and wags her blonde tail vigorously.
Nunez has trained police dogs 
for 32 years. He said it costs any-where between $6,900 and $7,500 to get the dog and train it with its human companion.Nunez said in a Miami-Dade 
County school, a student told his friend he brought a gun on cam-pus. His friend told an administra-tor, the police brought gun-detect-ing dogs on campus and the dogs found the gun.
“We have no idea how many 
lives we saved because of that dog,” Nunez said.
He said he was surprised that 
some school districts don’t have these dogs. With the prevalence 
of gun violence in the U.S., the 
K-9s can help keep the guns out of schools.
“Twenty years ago we would 
think this was a luxury, but today 
it’s a necessity,” he said.
Although gun dogs have been 
effective, in 2013 a K-9 accidentally 
shot a gun in Massachusetts when 
he pawed it in the snow. No one 
was injured, but the dog was star-
tled. Officers said this was a freak accident, though, and thought the gun may have been defective.
Palm Beach to add gun-sniffing dog; Alachua not considering
 IT’S TONIGHT AT THE JAM.
JACOB BRAUN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Members of the UF community 
will hit the stage tonight for a show 
benefitting graduate student orga-nizations.
Doors open at 8:30 p.m. with a 
$5 cover at The Jam at 817 W. Uni-versity Ave. Idylwild Band and Los Panas 352, bands with members in the UF sociology department, will perform. All benefits from the show will go toward funding sociology, criminology and law organizations.
Cristobal Gonzalez, the 22-year-
old organizer of the event, is a sing-
er and guitarist for Los Panas 352.
“The main focus was to bring 
the department together and raise 
whatever we could,” Gonzalez said.
The band plays mostly Latin 
music with a heavy emphasis on percussion and ska influences.
“It’s basically rage party music,” 
Gonzalez said.Eduardo “Eddy” Arenas, co-
owner of The JAM, plays bass for Los Panas 352.
Arenas, 36, said he is looking 
forward to hosting the event. This is the first official show for their band.
“The JAM is very excited to con-
tinue to work with the many stu-dent organizations at the Univer-sity of Florida to bring music, arts and culture to Gainesville,” Arenas said.
Idylwild, an Americana group, 
features Charles Gattone, an asso-ciate professor and associate chair of the UF sociology department, on keyboard.
Proceeds from the event will go 
to The Aggregate, The Syndicate and the Florida Society of Social 
Sciences, commonly known as F3S.
The Aggregate is an organiza-
tion for sociology graduate stu-
dents, and The Syndicate is for 
criminology graduate students.
Gonzalez said that F3S will use 
funds from the show toward the 
Conference of Social Sciences, the main event it hosts every year.Show to benefit UF orgs
Alligator File Photo
Pictured is the storefront of The Jam, a local music venue located on 817 W University Ave. Bands made 
up of UF sociology department members are performing tonight, and the show proceeds will go toward UF organizations.4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
Gabrielle Calise / Alligator
Liz Johnson, a 23-year-old “Peanutter” who travels with the Planters NUTmobile, photographs Mr. Pea-
nut and Billy Schap, a 22-year-old UF astronomy senior, near the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday.
ALEX HARRIS
Alligator Staff Writer aharris@alligator.org
Before the 30-person orgy, before 
the Feminist Porn Awards nomina-
tion for “boundary breaker,” before the men who wrote emails asking “I watched your porn, and it was hot. 
Am I gay?” Jiz Lee was an execu-
tive director of a dance nonprofit. Lee met a cute, female photographer who asked “the world’s best pickup line.”
“Do you want to do porn with 
me?”
So began Lee’s now 10-year ca-
reer in pornography. 
Lee identifies as genderqueer, 
neither male nor female, and uses the pronouns they/them. They have been a force in the queer porn indus-try, rallying for queer acceptance and safer, more radical and passion-ate sex. As part of UF’s Sexxx week, 
an  annual exploration of safe sex and sexuality, Pride Student Union hosted Lee on Wednesday night for a conversation about exploring gen-der identity, the queer porn industry 
and safe sex. 
The following Q&A session was 
edited for clarity and length. Lee 
speaks for themselves and does not represent any community. Check out even more of the interview at alligator.org.
      
How have you seen the porn 
industry change as LGBTQ+ is-sues become a topic on the national stage?
It’s changing a lot. The thing that 
pops to mind is within the last year, we’ve seen Laverne Cox, who was huge on “Orange is the New Black,”  become a spokeswoman for trans women and be on the cover of Time magazine.
There was an award ceremony 
that was called the Tranny Awards for a long time. 
They recently changed their 
name to the Transgender Erotica 
Awards, which, the abbreviation is 
TEA, like a tea party, and it’s cute. It’s respectful. It’s more accurate in terms of transgender being a larger umbrella term for different trans identities within that spectrum, so it more accurately portrays the differ-ent performers.
How do you think porn actors’ 
careers are changing as a result of social media?
It’s kind of like a prerequisite if 
you’re going to get hired. A lot of companies depend on performers retweeting when movies come out, so they actually make money when performers have a lot of followers on social media. Some directors cast off it. They 
actually go through their Twitter feed and say “who haven’t I seen in a while? Oh, look what so-and-so just tweeted. Let’s have them back.” 
I think it’s helpful for audiences 
to understand more about the in-dustry because they’re seeing per-formers’ point of views. Sometimes performers will talk about the envi-ronment on set, so you actually get to see behind the scenes and have a more relatable experience.
Where do you see the future of 
the payment model for porn?
It needs to change. A lot of times, 
people are like ‘Oh, why can’t porn be like Netflix or Spotify?’ I’ve heard 
musicians complain about Spotify 
because they’re on it, but at the end of the year they get like 3 cents. If they’re not super popular, and they don’t get played a lot, then you’re not going to be able to use that as your revenue source. For films – Netflix – they’ve already been pro-duced. The money is there. 
Pornography makes its mon-
ey back through memberships or V.O.D. (video on demand). It would be very difficult to have an $8 monthly subscription model of all these different companies if, at the end of the year, they’re going to end up with 3 cents. 
I think people are looking to large 
tube sites like PornHub as a Netf-lix where you can browse all these things, but there’s no longevity in it. I’m hoping that a basic education in paying for porn is gonna help that.
Genderqueer porn star talks safer sex, queer porn industry
AARON ZEILER
Alligator Contributing Writer
History is coming to life this 
Saturday in honor of Black His-tory Month. 
The first “Cotton to the 
Cade” walking tour will cel-
ebrate the achievements of five 
black inventors and innovators through the Power District area downtown. 
The tour begins at 1 p.m., 
and walkers can start from ei-ther the Cotton Club Museum and Cultural Center at 837 SE Seventh Ave. or The Cade Mu-
seum at 904 S. Main St.
“We want to celebrate these 
individuals and their accom-
plishments,” wrote Leslie Lad-endorf, the director of develop-ment at the Cade Museum, in an email.
The tour has four main stops: The Cotton Club Muse-um, the Depot Building, Prioria Robotics and the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention. At each of these spots, families and Gainesville residents will learn about inventors and innovators 
and interact with live actors.
“We hope to highlight great 
African-American innovators, 
get kids excited about science and the interesting opportuni-ties that are out there,” Laden-dorf said.
Vivian Filer, the chairwom-
an of the Cotton Club board of 
directors, said she hopes this 
will create a real interest in his-tory, education and science.
“We have to make sure we 
archive what we can and tell what we can to the younger people so that we have pre-served what’s not written down,” Filer said.New walking tour 
explores black history
UF organizations celebrated earlier this month, gala coming up
Yeung, however, was a first-
timer. The 18-year-old engineer-
ing freshman said she was ner-
vous about getting lost in the 
dance but found comfort in the tail.
“I can just follow (Ooi’s) feet,” 
Yeung said, who completed both performances successfully.
The duo jumped up and 
down and moved side to side, sending rippling waves through the lion’s sequined fabric. Din-ers helf up their phone cameras 
when the lion trotted through 
the restaurant.
“I feel culturally initiated,” 
said Jonathan Patterson, a 19-year-old UF microbiology sophomore.
Each show ended with the lion spitting out shredded let-tuce. It symbolized the spread of prosperity, Ooi said.
Student organizations also 
put on events to celebrate the 
Year of the Goat.
The Chinese American Stu-
dent Association and the Viet-
namese Student Organization held their celebrations earlier this month, but the Chinese Stu-dent Association’s Chinese New Year Gala is on Saturday.
The doors to the free gala will 
open at 6 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. There will be traditional Chinese dancers from local schools, mag-ic shows, hip-hop performances from campus organizations and dances from campus Indian dance groups, said Yue Rong, vice president of the organiza-
tion.Rong, a 24-year-old UF ag-
ricultural and biological engi-
neering sophomore, said this is the biggest event the association holds for Chinese New Year.
Planning for the Chinese New 
Year Gala began at the end of October, said Lu Luo, the presi-dent of the association. He said the group’s roughly 800 mem-bers help organize it every year.
About 1,000 guests are ex-
pected to attend, said Luo, a 25-year-old UF environmental 
engineering sciences graduate 
student.
Rong said traditional Chinese 
cookies and soup will be handed out after the event for guests to take home.
“It’s a good opportunity for 
all Chinese international stu-dents to celebrate the Spring Fes-
tival together,” he said.
CHINESE , from page 1Keeping tradition alive
Although they’re not with their families, some UF students keep up 
Chinese New Year traditions at school.
Maria Pitt, a 20-year-old graphic design junior, was raised by her Chi-
nese mother. She said her family celebrates by wearing red and eating 
sweet dumplings and noodles, all signs of a promising new year.
Pitt, the former vice president of education for the Asian American 
Student Union, said it’s common for family members to give loved ones red envelopes filled with money or gifts as a sign of prosperity.
Other common celebrations include eating peaches and oranges for 
longevity, cleaning before the New Year and not using scissors for fear of cutting success. 
To celebrate, Pitt cut her hair two weeks ago, knowing she couldn’t do 
so for the 15 days of the holiday. She also bought dumplings from the Eastern Market on Northwest 23rd Avenue.
“The point of celebrating the New Year is keeping the tradition alive,” 
she said.“A lot of times, people are 
like ‘Oh, why can’t porn be 
like Netflix or Spotify?’”
Jiz Lee
genderqueer porn starWhen it comes to extracurricular activities, 
Kevin Doan isn’t shy.
He’s the treasurer of Asian American Stu-
dent Union, a dancer for Filipino Student 
Association and a sophomore UF student senator. He also serves on the budget and ap-propriations committee. 
The 19-year-old UF finance sophomore is 
running as Student Body vice president for the Access Party along with Student Body presi-dential candidate Joselin Padron-Rasines and Student Body treasurer candidate Nicholas Carre.
The Student Body vice president oversees 
three divisions and 19 departments within Cabinet. 
Doan said he became involved in Student 
Government because he wanted to gain ex-perience and get involved in student organizations.
“I wanted to get profes-
sional development, and I wanted to give back to a uni-versity that’s given a lot to me,” he said. 
Growing up in Ohio, be-
fore making his way down to Parkland, Florida, he heard stories of his parents escaping the war in North Vietnam. Vietnamese culture played an important role in his life and manifested in the tight-knit family surrounding him.
He said food, language and dance are ways he connects with his cul-ture in addition to joining AASU. 
Doan said if he were elected he wants to fo-
cus on the cabinets under SG. He said he wants to align the cabinet departments with the cur-rent student organizations to bridge the gap between student organizations and Cabinet.
One of his main goals would be to expand 
outreach to students. He said programs in SG are not using their full potential in reaching students.  
Doan said SG has resources that can be ex-
panded to benefit the Student Body. He said his party has discussed creating a newsletter that would update students on news that oc-curs in SG in the form of an email. 
Another suggestion he made was promot-
ing SGTV. He said SGTV is a new program 
that is an efficient way to in-form students about events in SG, and he hopes to reach more students with it. 
According to Alligator ar-
chives, SGTV launched in Fall 2014.
“Making sure that it really 
reaches our audience because if you just look at the demo-graphics of the viewership of these videos is not as much as compared to the entire stu-dent body population,” he said. “It’s still a work in prog-ress.”Joseph Michaels dove into Student 
Government as a freshman looking to 
make an impact.
Arriving on UF’s campus in Summer 
2011, he familiarized himself with SG and the student organizations UF had to offer.  
He became involved in Inter-Residence 
Hall Association and UF Freshman Lead-
ership Council, but he said he realized SG 
was the best way to make an impact.
Four years later, he is representing the 
Swamp Party and running for Student Body president alongside running mates 
Tia Smart for Student Body vice president 
and Hadar Arazi for Student Body trea-surer.
Born and raised in Boynton Beach, the 
21-year-old UF economics and political science senior said he had no intention of getting involved in SG in high school.
“In high school, I made 
a decision that I did want to get more involved,” he said. “And I wanted to 
make more of an impact 
and leave something be-hind that made the univer-sity, or wherever I was go-ing, a better place.”
As a senator, he said he 
found his passion for gov-ernment on the budgets and appropriations com-mittee, where he served as chairman of the committee for a year and a half.
He said the biggest lesson he learned 
as a senator was how to interact with stu-
dents and understand their concerns.  
Michaels said a main concern students 
have is a lack of study space. 
He said according to a UF survey, Stu-
dents Experience in the Research Univer-
sity, or SERU, students have acknowl-edged a need for more study space on campus for the past six years.
While in Senate, Michaels said he 
worked on gathering $10 million in funds for the renovation of Newell Hall into an innovative study space for students.
“I’ve been able to learn what students 
want and have already implemented what they want,” he said.
Michaels said as Stu-
dent Body president, he 
wants to help students live 
better, study smarter, save more and thrive together.
“I think that not only 
do I have the experience, but I’ve been able to pro-vide students with results already,” he said, “and that’s something that I re-
ally want to take that to the 
next level as student body president.”
Joselin Padron-Rasines loves to dance, a 
passion that has followed her from her birth-
place in Venezuela to UF. 
The 20-year-old UF political science and in-
ternational studies junior became involved in 
Student Government as a freshman to famil-iarize herself with the inner workings of gov-
ernment on a student level.
Now she is running as Access Party’s can-
didate for Student Body president alongside 
running mates Kevin Doan for Student Body 
vice president and Nicholas Carre for Student 
Body treasurer.
“I’m a really passionate person,” she said. 
“If I go and do something, I’m going to do it 
all the way.” 
She is currently the vice president of opera-
tions for the Hispanic Student Association and 
an employee at the UF Book-store. She previously was a 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs ambassador and a 
dancer with Sabor Latino.
She has served as treasurer 
for HSA, and during her two 
years in UF Senate, she served on the budget and appropria-
tions committee. She was also a senator for District D from 2013 to 2014 and a senator for 
the Reid/Yulee/Mallory area from 2012 to 2013.
Padron-Rasines said she 
decided to run with the new 
party because of the dissatis-
faction she saw in SG. 
She said if elected as Stu-dent Body president, she would work to make 
SG more transparent for students.  
Padron-Rasines said her party’s platform 
aims to make SG more accessible, affordable 
and accountable for the student body with at-
tainable goals.
She said Access Party wants to push for 
online voting, a 24-hour Marston Library, ap-pointment of a chief diversity officer and gen-
der-neutral bathrooms on campus.  
She said a common problem with elected 
SG officials is that they become out of touch 
with students. 
She said her involvement in student organi-
zations has helped her connect with students, 
and as Student Body president, she said she will stay involved in those organizations.
“One big thing I’m real keen on doing is 
even while I’m being Student 
Body president, is making 
sure that I’m still going out to student organization meet-
ings and making sure that that connection between my-self and the students are still 
there,” she said.
Padron-Rasines said her 
party wants to represent 100 
percent of the students and not just a section of the Stu-
dent Body.
“At the end of the day, I 
represent 50,000 students,” she said, “so I cannot lose that 
connection with them while 
I’m in office.”
Tia Smart’s first experience in Student 
Government was through the UF Freshman 
Leadership Council during her first year at UF.
After heavy involvement and experience 
with cabinets in Student Government, the 22-year-old is running for Student Body vice president along with running mates Joseph Michaels for Student Body president and Ha-
dar Azari for Student Body treasurer.
The UF political science senior and first-
generation college student grew up in Fort 
Myers as one of six siblings. 
After FLC, she moved on as SG director of 
internal communications from Summer 2012 to Spring 2013. She later became SG Leader-ship Division Cabinet chairwoman, where she oversaw seven cabinets 
and was awarded Cabinet 
Chairperson of the Year.
Smart took time off from 
SG to focus on academics and internships, so she does 
not currently hold any posi-
tions. She said she broadened her perspective of govern-ment while interning with 
Sen. Bill Nelson in summer 
2012 and Congressman Ted Yoho in fall 2014.
Smart said if she were 
elected as Student Body vice 
president, she would work to 
bridge the gap between cabi-nets and the Student Body.“I feel like there’s a huge disconnect at this 
moment, and I want to bring back cabinet to its original purpose, and that’s for the stu-dents,” she said.
Cabinet is a segment of SG that breaks 
down into three divisions and 19 depart-ments categorized by different areas of cam-pus life, such as LGBT affairs, leadership development and Innovation Academy. The 
departments work with student organiza-
tions within  their category to increase out-reach and help organize events. The Student Body vice president oversees the divisions and departments.
Smart said she has seen Cabinet at its best 
and worst throughout her time in SG. 
She said if elected as Student Body vice 
president, she would focus 
on organizing Cabinet and 
making it more useful for students.
“I want to make cabinet 
back to the students,” she 
said.
She said she feels the 
branch has lost its purpose, 
so she wants to create more 
diverse events to integrate 
into student life.
“I feel that if you’re a pas-
sionate leader, that will come out to the students,” she said, 
“and you’ll have more suc-
cessful events and successful talks with the students.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Vice President: Tia SmartPres: Joseph MichaelsMeet the candidates: Student Body VP and Presidents
Pres: Joselin Padron-Rasines
Vice President: Kevin DoanBy ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff WriterSWAMP ACCESSReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.47 TOTAL VOTES54% YES
46% NOFriday’s question: Did the debate affect 
your opinion of the Student Government parties?Today’s question: Did you celebrate the Chinese New 
Year?Between the general cold, gray raininess, cramming for mid-
terms and the contentious Student Government season, this week has been a real bitch. We’re glad it’s ﬁ  nally coming to an end, which means it’s time for this week’s
Darts & Laurels
Let’s start with the Oklahoma Legislature, speciﬁ  cally the Oklahoma House Common Education Committee, which is pushing a bill that would revoke funding for Advanced 
Placement U.S. history classes in the state. Doing so would ban the teaching of AP U.S. history in Oklahoma schools. 
What could possibly warrant such a measure? According 
to the bill’s author, Republican state Rep. Dan Fisher, these AP 
courses only educate students on “what is bad about America.” 
In other words, Fisher and his cohorts can’t stomach the thought 
of students learning a version of American history that isn’t coat-
ed in a star-spangled layer of American exceptionalism.
While we think America is a wonderful place, we’re aware 
that some messed-up stuff has happened here. Teaching those things in schools simply isn’t cause to go up in arms. It’s akin to 
only teaching creationism in science classes — leaving out ev-
erything but V-J Day and George Washington’s cherry tree is 
ludicrous. So here’s a so-much-for-small-government DART to 
the Republicans in Oklahoma’s House who think history is 
something they should censor. 
If there’s anything that can be said about attorney and jour-
nalist Geraldo Rivera, it’s that he means well but isn’t always on 
point with what he says. Example: On Tuesday, Rivera was a 
guest on Huffpost Live, and — perhaps for the ﬁ  rst time in the 
program’s history — something noteworthy happened. 
Rivera said that “Hip-hop has done more damage to black 
and brown people than racism in the last 10 years,” going on 
to say the genre is culturally destructive because it encourages 
people to dress in ways that are outside the mainstream. He said 
this keeps minorities trapped in entry-level jobs. It seems like 
Rivera took the most obvious — and in his mind, obnoxious — 
parts of a culture and used them to explain its problems. 
Historically, the idea that everybody loved black people and 
all things were dandy until people started sagging their pants doesn’t hold up. Maybe there’s a sliver of truth in his statement, 
but declaring a musical genre to be more destructive than racism 
is an incredibly shallow observation. Here’s a dive-a-bit-deeper-
into-the-issues DART to Geraldo Rivera.
In other news, a bill passed through a Florida House subcom-
mittee that would allow concealed ﬁ  rearms to be carried on col-
lege campuses. It’s one of many similar bills set to pass in state 
legislatures around the country. We’ve already expressed our 
feelings about this issue — we’re opposed — but what upsets us 
even more is that the sexual assault crisis is being used to justify 
the bill. In the words of a Nevada Assemblywoman:
“If these young, hot little girls on campus have a ﬁ  rearm, I 
wonder how many men will want to assault them.” Leaving the ridiculousness and condescension of her statement aside, we’ll 
respond by saying the sexual assault problem doesn’t stem from 
a lack of guns. Here’s a don’t-use-sexual-assault-to-justify-
your-warped-gun-obsessed-agenda DART to these represen-
tatives.
That wraps it up for this week, folks.
Mid-semester slump hurting work ethic
Good writing emerges from honesty. 
The written word, or at least written word worth reading, should be a re-
ﬂ  ection of the writer’s innermost anxieties, hopes and dreams. 
If he or she is lucky enough, the writer 
will stumble upon a universal truth that 
lifts his or her writing beyond the dreck anyone can ﬁ  nd on their Facebook news feeds every day. 
To name one example, the works of William Shake-
speare have remained relevant hundreds of years after 
his passing for this very reason. 
Whether it’s the 17th century or the 21st, Hamlet’s 
internal struggle over whether to avenge his slain fa-ther is a universal one, as there is not a single person 
alive who has not struggled with making decisions of 
consequence.
You will not ﬁ  nd writing of that caliber in this week’s 
column. 
As Hamlet grappled with his own moral compass, I 
found myself contending with a signiﬁ  cant moral quan-
dary of my own: managing my time and prioritizing 
during midterms. 
Granted, this is a “struggle” that millions of college 
students are currently dealing with. However, not all of them have the opportunity to write for their student 
newspaper, nor do they have to combat the crippling 
self-loathing and doubt that seems to plague so many young men and women who fancy themselves “writ-ers.”
In any case, there was more than enough news that 
happened in the world this week that could’ve provid-ed ample material for a column. 
Oklahoma House legislators approved a bill that 
would ban AP U.S. history courses in the state on ac-
count of not being “patriotic” enough. Jeb Bush continues to make moves to be-
come the 2016 Republican Party presiden-
tial nominee — without actually declaring 
his run for the seat. 
Drake’s new album — which, for the 
record, is great — had a distinct lack of 
bangers.
However, a lack of time management 
skills, a perverted sense of perfectionism and a seemingly overwhelming workload 
made writing about those happenings impossible, at least for this neurotic columnist. 
We can all agree that midterms suck — they put an 
undue amount of pressure on a student and encour-age absorption of the material en masse rather than in eased, gradual assessments that actually measure ongo-
ing engagement with the course material. 
Seemingly, most college students survive their mid-
term/ﬁ  nals/what-have-you weeks and have no prob-
lem balancing the rest of their lives in the process. 
Good for them. 
While they study the ﬁ  ner points of macroeconomics 
at 3 p.m., I’ll be listening to The Stone Roses’ ﬁ  rst album 
and pondering its place in the Britpop canon, storing up the midnight oil to study for my Russian politics exam 
the next day.
As Shakespeare wrote in “As You Like It,” “All the 
world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely 
players; They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being 
seven ages.” 
For now, I guess I’m content to be a half-decent writ-
er with a poor work ethic trying to make it in this com-
petitive, mixed-up world we call college.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Response to Silver’s veganism 
and vaccine column
The argument made by Andrew 
Silver in his editorial “Refusing vac-
cines for veganism is a right” is ig-noring a crucial part to the premise. He states that, if an outbreak occurs, 
then the unvaccinated employee 
should be put on paid leave or work from home (or in his case, excused from classes). Silver seems to think very highly of himself, and appar-ently believes that UF does also. Un-fortunately, it’s not all about him or his dietary ethics.
The problem is not that the em-
ployee might get sick from work, but that the employee might infect people at their place of work. The incubation period for measles is be-tween seven to 21 days, according to the the CDC.  For up to eight days during the latter part of that time, a person becomes infectious to those around them, typically with no 
symptoms of their own. This is why 
measles outbreaks are so serious.
Silver must accept that the hos-
pital is far more concerned that the unvaccinated employee would be the CAUSE of an outbreak at the hospital, not a casualty of an out-break at the hospital. I dare say that an employee-originated outbreak 
of measles in a hospital ﬁ  lled with 
immunity-depressed patients might cause a bit of an “undue hardship” not only on the hospital, but also on the patients and their families.
Likewise, UF excusing Silver 
from class minimizes his chances of infecting his classmates if an out-break does occur (or is caused by 
him).
If Silver wishes to have veganism 
classiﬁ  ed as a religion, then more 
power to him. But his claim to a “right” ends when it impinges upon more basic rights of other people. Fo-menting a viral outbreak deﬁ  nitely doesn’t fall under religious freedom.
Benjamin J. Killian, Ph.D.                        
Lecturer/Director of Upper Division 
Laboratories  
Undergraduate Coordinator
Department of Chemistry
University of Florida                                                    
killian@chem.ufl.eduLetters to the Editor
Student organization support of Muslims is 
hypocritical
The fatal shooting of Deah Shaddy Barakat, 
his wife Yusor Mohammad Abu-Salha and her 
sister Razan Mohammad Abu-Salha has sparked outrage. While mainstream media is still por-traying the incident as a killing over a “parking 
dispute,” we know that this was a hate crime 
against the Muslim community. In turn, many communities are condemning Islamophobia. But what does their condemnation actually mean? A vigil at UF that happened Friday evening was endorsed by many different student organiza-tions, including the Jewish Student Union and J Street UF, two organizations that actively per-petuate Islamophobia through their acceptance 
and funding of Israeli apartheid. What needs to 
be understood is that one cannot claim to stand in solidarity with the Muslim community while simultaneously supporting Zionism and Israeli state-sponsored terrorism against the Muslim world.
The two murdered sisters, Yusor and Razan, 
were Palestinians who spoke openly against Is-rael’s crimes. What we are wondering is how 
Zionist organizations who receive funding from 
groups that play an active role in maintaining Israeli apartheid such as the Committee for Ac-curacy in Middle East Reporting in America, Anti-Defamation League, StandWithUs, Frank Gaffney of the Center for Security Policy, David Yerushalmi of the Society of Americans for Na-tional Existence and Daniel Pipes of the Middle East Forum can claim to mourn the loss of these 
three young Muslims, two of whom were Pales-
tinians, while celebrating, glorifying and actually funding the systematic murder of countless Pal-estinians in Palestine? It is downright offensive to Muslims to claim to stand in solidarity against Islamophobia when in reality you are actively perpetuating Islamophobia and ﬁ  rmly support the systematic murder of Muslims in Palestine and the Middle East. 
We do not need your crocodile tears, and we 
do not want you attending our vigils or claim-ing to be in solidarity simply so that you can capitalize politically off of our tragedies. We are fully aware that elections are coming up, and this is an attempt to make it look as though you are inclusive of all communities within UF. We also remember being preemptively attacked by Student Government in a bill that condemned 
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel 
by the very same people. We fully recall the ram-pant anti-Islam rhetoric used to justify Israel’s human rights abuses against Palestinians during the public commentary. Your hypocrisy is noted.
Students for Justice in Palestine
The Oklahoma Legislature is hard at work this year creating the greatest education system in the nation. How will they go 
about it, you ask? They are trying to ban Ad-vanced Placement classes. Yes, the classes many 
of you took in high school just for the opportunity 
to attend UF may soon be banned in Oklahoma.
What started as Republican state Rep. Dan 
Fisher’s attempt at banning AP U.S. history class-es may now expand to encompass all AP courses taught in Oklahoma. The state banned Common Core State Standards last year, and as a result some legislators are questioning whether AP courses are still legal. The legis-lation banning AP U.S. history passed out of committee this 
week by a vote of 11 to 4. Given Oklahoma’s recent banish-
ment of Common Core standards, AP seems likely to follow.
Before you dismiss Oklahoma as an isolated case, you must 
understand that it’s just the latest state attempting to rewrite school curriculum to better suit a political ideology. Conserva-tives don’t want an educated society that may question or op-pose their views, so they pass laws that ensure conservatism continues long after they’re gone.
A state senator in Georgia recently introduced a resolu-
tion condemning the AP history test, which follows a similar resolution adopted by the Republican National Committee last year. Sen. William Ligon’s argues the history exam is “a radically revisionist view of American history that emphasizes negative aspects of our nation’s history while omitting or 
minimizing positive aspects.”
Efforts in Texas have gone far beyond those in 
Oklahoma or Georgia, as legislators successfully 
altered their social studies curriculum recently. Issues like slavery and segregation are almost en-tirely ignored in these new textbooks, while some 
argue there appears to be an over-emphasis on Christianity’s inﬂ  uence on the U.S.
In an article published last year, Kathy Miller — president 
of the Texas Freedom Network — claims there are more than 100 pages of errors in the new textbooks. Not 100 total errors, but 100 pages of errors.
Attempts to drastically alter perceptions of American histo-
ry in classrooms should terrify us all. Regardless of your ideol-ogy, politicians are rewriting textbooks to beneﬁ  t their points of view, and the consequences could be dire. If you somehow feel it’s wrong for students to learn about our country’s mis-takes, your superiority complex about our country needs to 
end.Instead of ﬁ  nding ways to fully fund public schools, in-
crease student performance and graduation rates or make sure 
students have the tools they need to succeed in the 21st centu-ry, legislators are playing political games with curriculum. It’s dangerous, foolish and a waste of time and taxpayer dollars.
As acceptance at the top colleges and universities becomes 
more competitive, high school students across the country may feel required to take AP courses to improve their chances to make it into their dream school. Now, legislators in Okla-homa — mad at the federal government over Common Core standards — are poised to kill AP classes that students want and need to gain college admittance.
If this is the future of public education in the U.S., start sav-
ing now for private school. We must ﬁ  ght the asinine policies 
of ideologues who seem determined to dismantle public edu-
cation bit by bit. This year it’s AP U.S. history courses, next year it’s all AP courses, and within a few short years, it may be all advanced or honors courses.
Public schools helped build the middle class in the U.S.; 
don’t ignore legislators looking to destroy a century of prog-ress and growth for our country just because some want to ignore reality.
Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political campaigning 
graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.
Legislators’ aim to ban AP classes political game, ignores realityColumn
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.orgThe week before sopho-more year started, I de-cided I was ﬁ  nally an 
adult, and it was high time that I purchased my own box 
of condoms. Prior to that, I 
had always relied on the free condoms from the health cen-ter or crossed my ﬁ  ngers that my partner would bring some.
This was still before my big 
sexual revolution, so I was a little nervous and brought a friend with me. Important note: Don’t bring a friend who has never 
seen a condom before to provide input on 
condoms. There I was, standing in the phar-macy section of Target, overwhelmed.
So many choices! What is the right type 
to buy? Which brand is better? Did I need an eight-pack, or did I want 30? This ques-tion led to an introspective ﬁ  ve minutes of, “How lucky am I going to get this year?”
After about 10 minutes of debating with 
my friend, some male employees started to notice. So, when they walked over and asked if I needed help, I took my opportunity and asked them which they recommended.
Apparently, ultra-thin-feels-like-noth-
ing-is-there-trying-to-wear-as-little-con-dom-as-possible condoms were the way to go. I laughed because I thought that was very typical of the male ego. No, if I was 
buying these condoms, they were going to 
be for me. Ribbed for her pleasure, here we go.
Now, in the year and a half since then, 
I’ve gotten a better grip on the condom situation. I’ve learned that the ultra-thin ones actually are the way to go — personal preference, though, so do your own experi-ments.
I’ve also learned that condoms are re-
ally awesome and not at all embarrassing. Seriously, if you feel ashamed to purchase or carry condoms with you then you’re not mature enough to have sex.
I know, I know. I’ve talked about con-
doms before. But safe sex is important and needs to be promoted. Plus, I’m hoping that if I say “use a condom” enough, it’ll be 
put on my tombstone when I die — family 
members, if you’re reading this, please take note.
And since February is National Condom 
Month, according to the American Sexual Health Association, let’s do a condom re-cap.
The gist of this is: Get condoms, use condoms, love condoms. Con-doms are responsible and really should be non-negotiable, espe-cially if you’re having casual sex with multiple partners.
Condoms are great because 
they’re the only form of con-traception that protects against both pregnancy and STIs, kind of like a two-for-one deal. Plus, condoms are some of the more 
affordable birth control options — free, even, for students like us who can ﬁ  nd them at places like the Student Health Care Cen-
ter and Planned Parenthood.
You honestly have to go out of your 
way to not have condoms. I was literally 
just walking through North Lawn one day freshman year when a stranger handed me a bag of them — granted, there was a sex-ed event going on that day, but still!
Admittedly, the sexiest part of condoms 
is that they’re a constant reminder of the sex 
that you get to have someday. The condom 
that you always carry with you — by the way, you probably shouldn’t do that be-cause wallet friction can decrease condom efﬁ  cacy — pretty much says to you, “Hey buddy, you might not get to use me today, but you will soon, which means you’ll be having sex soon. Rad.”
Now, as for people with penises who say 
that condoms are too small for you: A girl on the Internet disproved this when she ﬁ  t a condom over her foot and calf. Of course, you have to take everything on the Internet with a grain of salt. So, I tested it out.
The results? A regular condom went up 
to mid-calf on me, and a Magnum-brand condom went up about three inches higher. Meaning, you have absolutely no excuses 
for not ﬁ  nding a condom that will comfort-
ably ﬁ  t you.
And if your prospective partner says it 
doesn’t feel as good with a condom, simply respond, “Babe, I’m so good, it’ll feel amaz-ing even with a condom. Let me show you.” 
If it really, honestly is uncomfortable, 
and you’re not just a jerk, you might be us-ing the wrong size condom — consider a 
smaller or larger option — or you might be 
allergic to either the latex or lubricant on the condom.
Basically, you should use a condom, and 
you have no excuses not to. After all, it’s condom sense.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.Condom sense: Use protectionColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo
4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    
2-25-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-10-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-27-15-7-2
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS Florida & Puerto Rico Properties Feb 20-27 Nominal Opening Bids from $500 for details visit: williamsauc -
tion.com 800.982.0425 FL Broker: Williams & Williams Re Lic 1032049 Auctioneer: Williams & Williams Auc Lic AB2784    2-20-1-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 9
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
TOP CASH PAID FOR OLD GUITARS!1920's thru 1980's Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg,  And Gibson Mandolins/Banjos.1-800-401-0440    2-20-1-13
`
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
10, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Signature Tutoring Services is looking for  
great tutors to work with students between February and March. Our students need tutoring in all subject areas through the AP level. The tutor will be responsible for teach-ing the curriculum provided by the students' full-time schools, and for ensuring that the students are completing and submitting their academic work on time.  Students and tutors work in person or via Skype.Send your resume toMgiglio@signaturetutoring Signaturetutoring.com          2-20-15-5-14
looking for p/t cleaner w/experience who has reliable transportation, &valid DL/insur -
ance...$8/hr ...if interested please call 352-214-0868 Caleitha     2-20-4-14
Babysitter wanted - for children ages 6 to 12. Mostly weekday afternoon/evening times. Help with homework, light house-keeping. $12/hr. Email resume and refer-ences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    2-24-15-5-14
Fun,easy babysitting job! M-F 1:30-6. Great pay. Reliable transportation a must. Non-smokers only, must love animals, too. Text (352)284-0998 for more info.    2-20-15-3-14
Now Hiring ALL Positions. Apply in person Heavenly Ham next to Moe's in Plaza Royale 3832 Newberry Rd. NO PHONE CALLS. $8.25/hr starting.Flexible hours & short shifts.    2-20-15-2-14
Student wanted to assist elderly woman with meals. Part time on weekends. Five minute drive from campus. $15/hr. Call Rosemary 703-638-0295 or hilleyjohn@yahoo.com    2-26-15-5-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    2-20-1-14
Heavy Equipment Operators In High Demand! Get Hands On Training And National Certifications Operating Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators. Average $18-$22 Hourly! Veteran Benefits Eligible! 1-866-912-0572    2-20-2-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    2-20-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    2-20-2-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
Professional resume writing to get you hired. 
Student Rates: $49 only, forResume, Cover Letter and Follow up Letter.www.arcaderesumes.com    2-24-15-5-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 855-588-1161    2-20-2-15
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Grads work with JetBlue, Southwest, PSA and others- start here with 10 week training for FAA certifica-tion. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    2-20-1-15FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    2-20-2-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679     1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    2-20-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607      2-20-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 11 
 THE SGP-SPONSORED CONCERT IS FREE.
DANA HATCHETT
Alligator Contributing Writer
After performing in festivals as raucous as Lol-
lapalooza, Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros 
are taking control on Flavet Field.
Grammy Award-winning band Edward Sharpe 
and the Magnetic Zeros are performing a free con-
cert at 7:30 p.m. tonight on Flavet Field, hosted by 
Student Government Productions.
Electro-pop band The Knocks will be the open-
ing performance.
SGP co-chairman Brad Wheeler said most of the organization’s events are free or reduced price.
“All of (SGP’s) concerts are going towards the 
students so that they could experience different genres of music and different acts around campus,” 
Wheeler, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engineering 
junior, said.
Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros are 
known for the platinum-selling song, “Home,” and 
their sound could be described as indie-folk.
Whitney Congress, SGP head director of pub-
lic relations, wrote in an email the two bands will pump up the crowd.
“We think the mix of genres (electronic and 
indie-folk) will be a crowd pleaser for everyone’s 
music tastes,” said Congress, a 21-year-old UF pub-
lic relations senior.Edward Sharpe and band to make 
themselves feel at ‘home’ tonightEmma Magee / AlligatorMiracle on 34th Street
Courtney H. (left) and Ashley Gordon, a 19-year-old UF biology and 
Spanish sophomore, chat over cups of “Courtney’s Creation,” a cus -
tom-made flavor of ice cream, in Sweet Dreams Ice Cream Shop on Thursday night. 
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer afigueroa@alligator.org
When a new minority party emerged this elec-
tion season, students were hyped.
For the first time since Fall 2014, Swamp Party 
has competition. That semester, Swamp was the 
only registered party on the ballot.  
But the students who ran in the last party that 
opposed Swamp said they are suspicious about in-tentions and cautious with their enthusiasm.
Access Party is the not the first minority party 
to face a majority party. Three years ago another minority party, Students Party, almost won against the majority at the time, Unite Party, but lost by 114 votes. The Students Party eventually dissolved and left UF’s Student Body with a one-party system.
For members of the former Students Party, the 
feelings are divided. Some showed reserved inter-est in Access, and others dove right into the cam-paign.
Two former members of Students Party, Mi-
chael Christ and Ford Dwyer, are running Access Party’s campaign. Christ went from Students Party senator to Access Party campaign manager. Dwyer is the former president of Students Party and now is Access’ treasurer.
Dwyer said some students are wary of the new 
party because of the executive ticket’s former af-filiation with Swamp. Those worries might be un-founded, though, because he said Students Party was formed with former members of Unite Party.
Students Party founder, Carly Wilson, was actu-
ally a former Unite senator. 
Wilson, now a third-year UF law student, said 
Access benefits students by giving them a choice. 
“It’s good to have competition in a political sys-
tem like this because if you have only one party in power, you run the risk of that party becoming 
complacent because they won’t feel a need to be 
responsive to the voters,” she said.
Former Students Party President Daniella Saet-
ta, a 23-year-old first-year UF engineering graduate 
student, said she is wary of the new party because of the executive ticket’s background in Swamp.
Saetta said most of Access Party’s platform is 
similar to Students Party platform, like making SG more open to students.  
“I want to challenge them to be that great,” she 
said. “I want them to be a clear-cut opposition 
against the Swamp Party.”
Independent UF Student Sen. Preston Jones 
supports Access. Sen. Jones was one of two inde-
pendents who ran in the Fall 2014 elections against Swamp. He took the Hume seat while Swamp took 
the remaining 49 seats.
“I think that Access Party will prove to be a true 
voice of transparency and accountability in Stu-
dent Government,” he said.
Elections are Tuesday and Wednesday from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.Minority party option raises concern, 
excitement this SG election season
MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writer mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Thursday after determin-
ing he was driving drunk during 
the December crash that killed his daughter and her friend.
An investigation revealed that 
on Dec. 13, Jeffrey Lee Ertle, 40, was driving on Northwest 53rd 
Avenue with a blood alcohol con-
tent level of 0.185 — more than twice the legal limit — when he 
slammed into a car traveling in 
the opposite direction, according to a press release. His 13-year-old 
daughter Ashley Ertle and her friend, 15-year-old Emily Cook, 
were pronounced dead at the 
scene.
The passengers in the car Jef-
frey Lee Ertle hit suffered injuries including broken bones, according 
to the release.  
GPD officers waited about two 
months for blood alcohol results in order to file the charges.
Officers arrested Jeffrey Lee 
Ertle at his home on two counts of DUI manslaughter and three counts of DUI damage to person 
or property. He was taken to the 
Alachua County Jail where he re-mained as of press time in lieu of a 
$275,000 bond.Police: Man arrested for 
DUI crash that killed 2CAMPUS
VERONICA GARCIA
Alligator Contribuing Writer
The Israel-Gaza conflict is physi-
cally far away, but it’s widely ac-
knowledged. 
Two Israel Defense Force sol-
diers stood in front of a crowd of 
about 40 at 6 p.m. Thursday in the 
Reitz Union Welcome Center to share their personal stories.
In the middle of their talk, how-
ever, members of Students for Jus-tice in Palestine stood up in protest wearing shirts that read, “You’re the real terrorist.”
StandWithUs, an international 
nonprofit organization, is dedicated to informing the public about Israel and the Israel Defense Force. 
Laura Kaler, a 22-year-old UF 
sport management and business administration student, is a member of the Jewish Student Union, which hosted the soldiers. She said it cost the organization $200 to bring them.For safety, speakers Gal B. and 
Yehuda M., who are in the reserves, did not reveal their last names.  Gal, 25, is a second-year law student at Bar-Ilan University. She had to join the army, where she worked as a ba-sic training commander. 
“For me joining the army wasn’t 
something that I had to do, but something I wanted to do, because I felt connected to the army to pro-tect my land and the people from Israel,” Gal said.Gal emphasized that what is seen 
in the media is not always the truth. 
“The situation is complex, and 
there’s always two sides to every story, and the international media is only showing one side,” Gal said.
Yehuda, 27, a political science 
major at University College Sedaya, spoke about joining the army after moving from Ethiopia to Israel.
The protest interrupted his story. 
Then the SJP students walked out. 
Gal asked for them to stay. “You are the other side for the 
peace that we need,” Gal said. “Please come back and stay to talk to us.”
Tesneem Shraiteh, a 21-year-old 
UF linguistics junior and president of SJP, said she did not want talk to 
them about Israel and Palestine. 
“When you don’t recognize the 
humanity of others, I can’t dialogue 
with you,” she said.
Alligator staff writer Hanna Morse 
contributed to this report.
Israel Defense Force soldiers share stories; SJP walks out
CRIME“It’s good to have competition in a 
political system like this because if you 
have only one party in power, you run the 
risk of that party becoming complacent 
because they won’t feel a need to be 
responsive to the voters.”
Carly Wilson
Students Party founderFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poll Question
Will Billy Donovan earn his 500th career win against 
LSU on Saturday? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.Logan Shore and pitchers on the UF baseball team are on limited pinch counts. Read the story on page 13. UF swim improves
After Day 3 of the Southeastern Conference Championships on Thursday, the UF men’s swimming and diving team is in first place while the women’s team sits in third.GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Florida’s strength lies in its resilience. 
The Gators women’s basketball team has made a habit of 
crawling out of holes it has dug itself in.
Despite never leading in regulation, Florida took the Com-
modores to overtime before eventually falling 76-75 on Thursday night in the O’Connell Center.
Coach Amanda Butler, who has seen her team crumble, fall 
and fail to be in position to win, said that the Gators executed the game plan well despite the loss.
“I love our fight, love our heart, I love how resilient we are,” 
Butler said. “We put ourselves in position to win over and over again and sometimes the shots fall and sometimes they don’t.”
The Commodores, however, had no problem getting their 
shots to fall in the first half.
Vanderbilt (14-12, 5-8 Southeastern Conference) led from the 
opening whistle, keeping pace ahead of Florida (12-14, 4-9 SEC) 
through a barrage of three-pointers that saw the Commodores hit 
7-of-9 from long range before the break.
The hot shooting continued from there, with Vanderbilt com-
ing out energized to push the lead to 50-38 over Florida within the opening minutes of the second half.
But Florida, well-versed in putting together a comeback, start-
ed locking down on defense and chipping away at the lead before tying the game for the first time at 55-55 with 10:14 left to play.
The Gators had a chance to win it at the regulation buzzer, but 
January Miller’s driving shot fell short and the teams headed to extra time tied at 69.
After a back-and-forth overtime period that was categorized by 
free throws, UF put itself in position to win.
But two attempts by Miller in the final 10 seconds were no good 
and Florida exited the floor heartbroken after letting the comeback chance slip away.
“I felt like I just needed to get a score, since we were only down 
one so I was trying to at least get a foul,” Miller said. 
“I thought I was gonna get fouled, but I wasn’t. It happens.”Miller scored 15 points and dished four assists, displaying an 
improved sense of confidence that was missing in Florida’s earlier Southeastern Conference games.
Ronni Williams led the Gators with 17 points on an efficient 
8-of-11 shooting to go along with eight rebounds, including a game-high four boards on the offensive end.
Williams said for the Gators to be successful, the team needs to knock down its long-range shots when the paint is impenetrable, as it often was against Vanderbilt.
“That’s what we work on in practice, we play inside out,” Wil-
liams said. “We get the ball inside when they double in the paint and kick it out to our shooters and they knock it down.”
THE GATORS HAVE SCORED 50 
RUNS IN FOUR GAMES.
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Kevin O’Sullivan bounded down the 
steps of McKethan Stadium’s first base dug-
out on Thursday, clad in a hoodie, gloves and knee-high gym shorts in 40-degree weather.
After a 4-0 start to the season, it’s safe to 
assume O’Sullivan isn’t feeling the heat. 
But his players are.
Florida’s batters 
are riding the South-eastern Conference’s 
largest hot streak early in the season, with a league-high 50 runs in four games.
No. 6 UF will look to continue its early season success when it starts a three-game 
series against No. 8 Miami (4-1) at 7 p.m.
Florida is currently third in the SEC in 
slugging percentage at .583. 
The Gators are also hitting .340 at the 
plate, led by SEC Player of the Week Harri-
son Bader, who is currently on pace to hit 41 home runs and tally 193 RBIs. 
Of course, those numbers will drop off 
significantly once UF begins play against ranked opponents.
That’s where the Hurricanes come in.Miami leads the Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence in 14 different categories, including runs (48), hits (53) and RBI (43).
UM’s Friday night starter, lefty Andrew 
Suarez, was named a 2015 preseason All-
American and enters this season after throw-ing a complete game shutout in last May’s UF looks to continue hot start in three-game series against MiamiGRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
She’s back.
No. 2 Florida (5-1, 4-1 Southeastern 
Conference) heads to Baton Rouge to 
take on No. 3 LSU (8-1, 5-0 SEC) to-
night in one of the biggest meets of the season, but the meet is only one storyline for the Gators.
The other would 
be junior Bridget Sloan, who will make her much-
anticipated return 
to the competition 
floor for Florida.
Sloan will com-
pete on bars, her first 
event since suffering a sprained ankle on floor in Florida’s first competition of the season against Ball State. 
The injury has sidelined the 2008 
Olympian for the last five weeks.
“I am super stoked,” Sloan said. 
“I’ve been looking forward to it for awhile, ‘cause this is the one meet we kinda figured that I’d be back.
“I know it’s just bars, but I was 
telling my mom, I was like ‘Mom, you don’t understand, I’m so pumped just to be out there, be in the leotard, be kind of amongst the team.’”
For Sloan, not being able to con-
tribute to the team by performing was difficult to cope with, but the injury gave her an opportunity to learn how 
to affect the team in other ways.
“It’s definitely been a learning pro-
cess,” Sloan said. “This injury has ob-Sloan returns 
for Gators vs. 
LSU
SEE GYMNASTICS, PAGE 15Sloan
Marley Boerema / Alligator
January Miller goes up for a layup during Florida’s 76-
75 overtime loss to Vanderbilt on Thursday night in the O’Connell Center. 
Gators’ comeback attempt falls short in OT
UF missed final shot
“I love our fight, love our heart, I love how resilient 
we are.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15UF BaseballGYMNASTICSFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 13 
BASEBALL
 STARTERS WILL BE LIMITED 
TO ABOUT 80 PITCHES VERSUS MIAMI.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan invests a 
lot of time developing his pitchers.
And early in the year, his goal is 
to ease his staff back into the inten-
sity.
That’s why UF’s trio of starters— 
Logan Shore, Dane Dunning and 
A.J. Puk — were limited to no more 
than 76 pitches in Florida’s three-
game sweep of Rhode Island.
And it’s also why O’Sullivan de-
cided to take out Brett Morales after six perfect innings in UF’s 13-3 vic-tory against USF on Wednesday.
Morales retired 18 consecutive 
batters to start the game against the Bulls, striking out a career-high 
seven.
But while the thought of a perfect 
game or a no-hitter circled around, 
O’Sullivan had the bigger picture in mind.
“A lot of these guys are pros-
pects,” O’Sullivan said. “To have the glory for one night is not worth jeopardizing getting hurt. Could he have done it? Maybe. But the good doesn’t outweigh the bad in that 
situation for me.”
And with Florida starting a three-
game series against Miami tonight at 
McKethan Stadium, O’Sullivan will up the pitch count slightly — about 10 pitches, he said — to see how his pitchers respond.
“There’s no exact science to it, but 
I think from a coaching standpoint, 
there needs to be some sort of ac-
countability,” O’Sullivan said. “This isn’t anything new. I’ve always tried to do the best I could with trying to follow a gameplan, so to speak, with building their arms up.”
And Shore is going to be the ﬁ  rst 
to take on the increased workload when he takes to the mound tonight.
Shore was only a minor factor 
during Florida’s three-game series against Miami in 2014.
The then-freshman pitched just 
1.2 innings of relief in the Gators’ lone win of the three-game series — a 6-4 victory in Coral Gables, Florida — in his second career UF appear-ance.
Continue reading this story online at 
alligatorSports.org.Pitch counts helping ease Florida pitchers into season
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Logan Shore pitches during Florida’s 9-1 win against Rhode Island on Feb. 13 at McKethan Stadium. Shore 
will start on the mound for the Gators to open their series against Miami, but he will be on a pitch count.
UF Sports In Action This Week Friday
SaturdaySunday
Swimming and Diving:
Southeastern Conference 
Championships (Day 4) — 
Auburn, Alabama
Women’s Tennis: 
vs. Duke at 3:30 p.m. — Ring 
Tennis Complex (free)
Softball:
 vs. Liberty at 4:45 p.m. 
— Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium (free)Lacrosse:
 vs. San Diego State at 6:30 
p.m. — Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium (free)
Baseball:
 vs. Miami at 7 p.m. — McK-
ethan Stadium
Gymnastics:
 vs. LSU at 8:30 p.m. — Ba-
ton Rouge, LouisianaSwimming & Diving: 
 Southeastern Conference 
Championships (Day 5) — Au-
burn, Alabama
Softball: 
vs. Illinois State at noon — Ka-
tie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
(free)
vs. Kansas at 2:15 p.m. — Ka-
tie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
(free)Men’s Basketball:  
vs. LSU at 1 p.m. — Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana
Baseball:  
vs. Miami at 7:30 p.m. — McK-
ethan StadiumWomen’s Golf: 
Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercol-
legiate Golf Championship — 
New Orleans, Louisiana
Women’s Tennis:  
vs. Stanford at noon — Ring 
Tennis Complex (free)Softball: 
vs. Mercer at noon — Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium 
(free)
Baseball: 
 vs. Miami at 1 p.m. — McK-
ethan Stadium 
Women’s Basketball: 
vs. Texas A&M at 4 p.m. — 
College Station, TexasLUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
The Florida softball team has an advan-
tage a lot of teams around the country wish 
they could have in their lineup.
The middle of the lineup for the Gators 
not only has experience, but it also pro-duces at a high rate that can be attributed to the two seniors in the heart of the order: 
Lauren Haeger and Bailey Castro.Haeger is a known commodity for her 
pitching prowess, but her ability in the bat-
ter’s box shouldn’t be overshadowed.
The senior is normally slotted into 
UF’s lineup in either the three hole or as the cleanup hitter and through 11 games this season, Haeger has a .464 batting av-erage— which leads the team for players who have played in more than nine games 
— while driving in 12 runs.
But some of her production has to be credited to Castro, who is routinely hitting 
behind her in the lineup and providing protection.
“I actually really like hitting behind 
Lauren,” Castro said. “If they don’t throw to Lauren, it gets me a little hyped up, knowing that they are going to come at me.”
The amount of maturity both bring to 
the plate is invaluable to the program. En-tering this season, Haeger and Castro com-bined to play in 358 games while hitting 72 home runs and driving in 260 runs in their 
first three seasons.   
“I love it,” coach Tim Walton said. “You 
can’t teach that experience that they bring 
and their on base percentage and slugging percentage are always going to be high.”
Castro is second on the team behind 
Haeger in on base percentage for play-ers who have appeared in more than nine games (.543), while hitting .385 through 11 
games. Castro has made significant strides 
in her batting average in each season she’s played.
She hit .207 in 92 at bats her freshman 
year and increased her average to .227 in 
her sophomore campaign. But in her ju-
nior year, she started 53 games and hit a respectable .287 with 8 home runs and 30 RBI.
This season, Castro is second on the 
team with a .808 slugging percentage, which is due in large part to her five extra base hits, three home runs and two dou-bles, while Haeger is third with a .714 slug-
ging percentage.  
“They are both very patient, they both can drive in runs, they both can hit the ball 
out of the ballpark,” Walton said. “You 
just can’t breathe if you’re a pitcher, you 
got to get through those two.”  
Castro and Haeger consistently feed off 
each other when one or the other gets a hit or gets on base, but their relationship goes 
beyond the softball field and it helps them 
have fun during games.
“Me and Lauren are ac-
tually really great friends 
off the field,” Castro said. 
“So it’s really easy when we’re on the field to just joke with each other, just to kind of take like that 
serious edge out of it and 
just loosen up.”   
Haeger and Castro will look to con-
tinue their hot start to the season as No. 1 Florida will be hosting the University of 
Florida Aquafina Invitational starting to-day against Liberty at 4:45 p.m. The Gators are 11-0 on the season and will look to continue their winning ways this weekend 
against the aforementioned Flames, and 
against Kansas, Illinois State and Mercer.
Walton will be looking to his two se-
niors in the lineup to anchor the offense 
the rest of the season.  
“To be a good team, you have to have 
a middle of the lineup that’s consistent,” 
Walton said. “I can write Lauren Haeger in the three, four, or the five every day of the 
week. I can write Bailey in the three, four, 
or the five every day of the week.
“I like having those two consistently 
backing each other up.”  FLORIDA HAS STRANDED 
77 RUNNERS IN JUST 11 GAMES.
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @pinakk12
While the UF softball team has 
had no problem driving in runs 
this season, Florida has left its fair 
share of runs on the basepaths.
The Gators have scored 87 runs 
through 11 games, but have strand-
ed 77 runners on base – something 
coach Tim Walton wants his hit-
ters to improve on.
“You watch our team grind 
out the number of people we put on base and not be able to come 
through with that one – not even 
one big hit, just a hit,” Walton said.
Walton also said he’d like to 
see at-bats from his hitters pro-
duce more quality outs – which 
he specified as an out that may not produce a hit but advances the runner(s).
“I just don’t like wasting oppor-
tunities,” he said. 
Haeger racks up awards: Lau-
ren Haeger is simply a winner.
After an impressive week in the 
circle and in the batter’s box last week, the senior won three ma-jor national awards — the South-eastern Conference Pitcher of the Week, NFCA National Player of the Week and USA Softball Colle-
giate Player of the Week. 
This marks the first time in her 
career that she’s won either nation-
al player of the week awards. 
The Peoria, Arizona, native 
tossed 15 scoreless innings in three wins over Jacksonville, Iowa and N.C. State last week, improving to 
5-0 on the season. 
She also struck out 24 batters 
and allowed eight hits during the 
stretch.
At the plate, Haeger hit .533 
with a home run, a double and 10 RBI. She also walked five times and scored six runs throughout the week.
“She’s pitching now, where I 
always felt that Lauren lived off her adrenaline and was a thrower, now I think she’s pitching a lot bet-ter,” Walton said. 
“She has a lot better command 
of her pitches.”
Freshmen proving worth early 
on: Freshman Aleshia Ocasio has 
not only contributed early on, but 
has played a big role in Florida’s 
11-0 start.
The St. Cloud native is 3-0 and 
has posted a miniscule 0.65 ERA through 21.2 innings of work. 
She’s compiled 36 strikeouts while 
giving up only two earned runs, three walks and 12 hits.
Ocasio’s small body of work 
also includes the Gators’ biggest win of the season – a 2-1 victory over then-No. 8 Michigan on Feb. 7. The game was the freshman’s first career collegiate start – in which 
she struck out 10 through seven 
innings, allowing zero earned runs in her first collegiate win. 
Kayli Kvistad leads the way 
for Florida freshmen at the plate. The Lake City native is hitting .375 with two doubles, one home run and nine RBI – third best on the team.
“Being so successful right out of 
the gate is huge for them and their confidence,” junior catcher Aubree Munro said. 14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Coach Tim Walton talks with Kirsti Merritt (right) and Brianna Little 
(center) during Florida’s 8-0 win against Mercer on March 12.
Alligator File Photo
Bailey Castro bats during Florida’s 17-1 win against USF on April 23 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Notebook: softball coach looking for 
more quality at-bats, clutch hitting
SOFTBALL
Middle of lineup providing power as UF prepares for invitational
Haeger
“She’s pitching now, 
where, I always felt that 
Lauren lived off her 
adrenaline and was a 
thrower, now I think she’s 
pitching a lot better. She 
has a lot better command of 
her pitches.”
Tim Walton
CoachNCAA regional matchup against Bet-
hune-Cookman.
“He is one of the best left handers in 
the country,” O’Sullivan said. “We’ve got our hands full.”
Suarez will have to contain an emerg-
ing Florida lineup that is feeling con-fident after notching 22 runs against Rhode Island on Saturday, currently an SEC high.
Against Rutgers on Sunday, Miami 
scored 25.
The stage is set.“It’s Miami, they’re good,” Bader 
said.” They’re gonna come right at you, and we’re ready to fight right back.”
Florida is relishing the challenge, and 
even though tonight’s matchup marks only the fifth in a 55-game schedule, O’Sullivan wants to see how his players respond. 
“I think it’ll be a good barometer of 
where we’re at,” the coach said. “It’s cer-
tainly not going to be an indication of 
where we’re going to become the end of the season. But it’ll tell us a lot about our team and where we’re at right now and what we need to work on.”
Most recently, the Gators have im-
proved at first base, with John Sternagel expected to start. The sophomore has made the most of 
his limited playing time to start the sea-son, tallying three RBIs and four runs in 10 at-bats.
Logan Shore will get his second op-
portunity on the mound a week after striking out four in five innings and al-lowing four hits.
Freshman Dalton Guthrie will keep 
his spot at the top of the order after go-ing 7-for-16 with one stolen base through four games.
And O’Sullivan will continue to use 
freshmen Mike Rivera and JJ Schwarz in-terchangeably — one will start at catcher while the other fills Florida’s designated hitter role.
And now that UF’s positions are so-
lidified, it can concentrate on the task at hand.
Does a series against Miami feel dif-
ferent than others?
“Honestly, yeah it does,” Bader said. 
“Not that a win or loss counts any more than any one win or loss, but you wanna take on your rivals.”
This is especially true for Florida, 
which dropped two out of three against Miami last season, something the players haven’t forgotten.
“It’s gonna be all out warfare,” Bader 
said.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Harrison Bader swings during Florida’s 9-1 win against Rhode Island on Jan. 
13 at McKethan Stadium. Bader and the Gators host Miami in a three-game series starting tonight at 7.
Sloan will compete on bars in 
first meet since season opener
viously taught me a lot about what I am 
as a competitor, … it has taught me a lot about my role on the team.
“My role isn’t just always going out 
there and hitting a routine. Now my role is going out there and being the best cheerleader I can be, and making sure the 
team is as relaxed as possible and keeping 
the mood light, because that’s when we do our best.”
But nothing replaces having an athlete 
of Sloan’s caliber competing alongside 
you, and her teammates are ready to have 
her back in the lineup.
“She’s only going to be on one event, 
but it’s going to be a huge difference,” ju-
nior Bridgette Caquatto said. “It’s gonna 
be nice when we get up there to compete to have her chalking up at the chalk bowl with us.”
Coach Rhonda Faehn said Sloan’s 
mere presence provides the team with a sense of assurance, and her performance on bars — the first event for Florida — will help set the tone for the night.
“It’s going to be a great boost, con-
fidence-wise, energy-wise of course,” Faehn said. “But it’s nice because we will be starting on bars (at LSU) and so it’ll be a great start, and to be able to get an awe-some set in and be able to carry that mo-
mentum into the rest of the competition is 
important.”
Florida will need it.At home, LSU’s worst score of the sea-
son was a 197.125 in the team’s first meet of the year. 
Florida’s best road score of the year 
was a 197.20 against Arkansas.
Caquatto’s first road meet of her colle-
giate career came at LSU, and she believes it’s the most difficult venue to compete in — even tougher than at Alabama.
“I think Alabama, when you’re up 
competing, it’s just quiet, no one’s really cheering for you,” she said. 
“But if I remember correctly from my 
freshman year, we got some boos (at LSU).”
That 2013 meet at LSU was Sloan’s first 
road meet as well, and the fans were root-ing for Sloan to fall during her routines.
“They boo, they heckle, they yell mid-
routine,” Faehn said. “It’s definitely the most aggressive-natured meet that we encounter.”GYMNASTICS , from page 12
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Grace McLaughlin (left) and Bridget Sloan (right) hype up the O’Connell Center crowd 
during Florida’s 197.20-195.65 win against Auburn on Jan. 16. Sloan will return to UF’s lineup for the first time since spraining her ankle against Ball State.
BASEBALL , from page 12UF lost two of three games 
against Miami in 2014ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Following up a breakout freshman year 
can put a lot of pressure on a young player, 
especially one who is asked to do so much. 
In 2014, Sammi Burgess had arguably one 
of the best freshman seasons of any Gator 
in the history of Florida lacrosse, so it was 
strange for her and the team when her start to 2015 was not quite so glamorous.
Burgess, an attack-
er, ﬁ  nished last sec-
ond on the team last 
season with 38 goals 
and added 15 assists. 
She started in 20 of the 21 games that she 
played in and was a major part of leading the 
team to the NCAA quarterﬁ  nals.
She was bombarded with accolades during 
and after her freshman year, such as 2014 ALC Rookie of the Year, and even before her sopho-more year began Burgess was named to the 
2015 BIG EAST Preseason First Team.
Needless to say, Burgess caught the atten-
tion of collegiate lacrosse. She displayed her 
game for everyone to see.
But those same people that saw Burgess’ 
breakout ﬁ  rst year also saw her struggle in Florida’s 2015 season opener against No. 2 North Carolina. She recorded just one assist and one shot in the Gators’ loss to the Tar 
Heels – not exactly Sammi Burgess statistics.
“I was not necessarily unhappy with my-
self after the UNC game, but I thought I could 
have been more of a presence,” Burgess said. “I think I was really timid and not conﬁ  dent going into that game for some reason, and it 
happens. But I deﬁ  nitely wanted to bounce 
back and improve from, you know, doing ba-sically nothing.”
She has done the opposite of “basically 
nothing” in Florida’s two games since the season opener. Burgess didn’t get the start in the Gators’ next game against Jacksonville, just the second game she’s played in that she hasn’t started, but she quickly came off the 
bench and seemed to jump right back into her 
groove.
In the last two games, Burgess has scored 
six goals and has totaled two assists and seven shots — statistics she’s more used to produc-ing. 
Burgess said she’s learning to not take ev-
erything so seriously, to not think about it as much.
“I think that I’ve just kind of gotten out of 
my own head, gotten out of my own way,” Burgess said. “I always say being conﬁ  dent helps a lot and I just have to realize that it’s just a game sometimes…it’s how you react to the mistakes you make rather than getting down on yourself during a game, and I think that’s what happened to me during UNC.”
Now, coming off of two-straight wins 
against Jacksonville and Michigan in which Florida outscored the two opponents 38-8, the No. 4 Gators (2-1) host San Diego State (0-0) to-night at 6:30 in the ﬁ  rst-ever meeting between the two schools.
Burgess and the Florida offense will look 
to continue the scoring trend and build upon what they have learned thus far this young season.“Now we’re just clicking, and it feels so 
natural when we’re out there with each other,” junior attacker Lauren Lea said. “You know each other’s strengths and you work off of that, so when we’re out there on the ﬁ  eld it just feels very natural and it’s just very easy to get along with each other, on and off the ﬁ  eld.”
As for Burgess, she said she’s back to her normal ways, evidenced by her last two games. She’s back to Sammi being Sammi.
“I get more conﬁ  dence by working on it 
and improving in practice every day, rather than being down on myself and not doing anything about it,” Burgess said. “There’s 
still room for improvement, but I’m deﬁ  nitely 
more conﬁ  dent than I was.”
16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sammi Burgess runs down the ﬁ  eld during UF’s 17-11 loss to North Carolina on Feb. 7 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Sophomore attacker rebounding from slow start to season
WOMEN’S GOLF
JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Alligator Writer @RosenbergJusten
After a disappointing end to 
last week’s Northrop Grumman 
Regional Challenge, the Florida women’s golf team will look to regroup as participants in this 
weekend’s Allstate Sugar Bowl 
Intercollegiate Golf Champion-ship in New Orleans, Louisiana.
The Gators were tied for ﬁ  fth-
place entering the ﬁ  nal round at Northrop, putting themselves in position to earn back-to-back top three ﬁ  nishes. However, outside of sophomore Kelly Grassel (+2), each individual struggled, with the next lowest score being six over par.
“We showed up but didn’t 
bring the energy level that I would’ve like to have seen,” coach Emily Glaser said.  “You still gotta go out and go get it. We didn’t re-ally do that the last day.”
But despite their fallacious end 
at Northrop, Glaser has empha-sized to the team that they must 
remain positive and continue to 
improve on the little things.
“Coming in with a good atti-
tude and kinda lifting each other up,” Glaser said. “Making sure that we do the same things on the days were scoring well, as we do on the days when maybe we’re 
not scoring as well.”
At Northrop, 
senior Camilla 
Hedberg failed to do the little 
things right, at-tributing her ﬁ  -nal score of +14 to her inability 
to thrive in the 
short game, 
which is something she is looking to improve upon.  
“For me it’s a lot of putting. I struggle with my putting out there,” Hedberg said. “I’m work-ing hard on that. It’s getting bet-
ter.”
Much like Northrop – which 
featured ﬁ  ve of the nations top-10 
teams – the Gators will yet again encounter some of the country’s highest ranked opponents in New Orleans, as they will face  four top-10 teams.
Heading into the weekend, it 
is important that the team builds off of their practices and in-game experience. 
It is also imperative that they 
remain focused and conﬁ  dent.Fortunately, Hedberg said, the 
team’s conﬁ  dence level is quite high.
“The team chemistry is great. 
I think that helps a lot,” Hed-berg said. “Were all excited. I think California, even though we didn’t ﬁ  nish strong, showed us that we can be one of those top teams… Being able to be ﬁ  fth after two rounds and still feeling like we didn’t play to our potential 
showed us how good of a team 
we could be.”
The Gators will tee-off during 
the ﬁ  rst round of the Sugar Bowl on Sunday. 
UF women’s golf heads to New Orleans for next tournament
Hedberg
UF LacrosseAt this point in the sea-
son, Florida doesn’t have much to play for.
Outside of an unforeseen run 
through its ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve regular-season games and the Southeast-ern Conference Tournament, the 
Gators’ season is essentially al-
ready over.
But despite all the turmoil, de-
spite all the adversity and despite all the defeat, the Florida men’s basketball team still has the opportunity to bring out at least 
one positive moment 
from this otherwise abomination of a sea-son if it can pull to-
gether just one more 
win.
One more win, 
regardless of the opponent, will give Billy Donovan his 500th as a head coach.
His ﬁ  rst chance 
will be in Florida’s 
road contest on Sat-
urday against LSU (18-8, 7-6 SEC), a team that straight 
up dominated the 
Gators (13-13, 6-7 SEC) in the ﬁ  rst 
meeting this season.
In that 79-61 loss to the Tigers on Jan. 20 — Florida’s worst loss since its 79-59 loss to Michigan in the 2013 Elite Eight — the Gators 
shot 38.3 percent from the ﬁ  eld, 
including an abysmal 18.8-per-cent mark from three-point range.
“To be honest, they embar-
rassed us here,” redshirt junior forward Alex Murphy said. “I don’t want to say anything about payback, but we’ve got business to handle.”
The Gators proceeded to drop 
ﬁ  ve of its next seven games af-ter being clawed by the Tigers, virtually eliminating themselves 
from being a top contender in the 
conference and handing away its opportunity to compete in the NCAA Tournament or the NIT.
But now, Florida is looking to 
ride the minor surge of momen-tum they gained from pulling out a 50-47 win against Vanderbilt on Wednesday.
It wasn’t a pretty win — with 
both teams going on extended scoring droughts throughout the game.
But it was a win Florida 
needed after a four-game losing streak.
“It felt great,” said Murphy, 
who scored a career-high-tying 
11 points in the win. “We played 
desperate, especially in the sec-ond half.”
After Florida took a relatively 
commanding 42-35 lead with just 
under six minutes to play, Flori-
da broke down in typical Florida fashion, allowing Vanderbilt to come back and take a 47-46 lead 
with less than a minute to go.
This scene has been all too 
familiar for the Gators, who had lost three of their seven prior 
games by just one point.
The plot looked to remain the 
same, but the Gators created the ending that had eluded them for the two weeks prior — one that saw them walking away victori-
ous.
“You’ve got to snap out of 
that,” Murphy said.
“Of course that comes into 
your mind, but you have to get rid of that quick because the 
game wasn’t over.”
The road isn’t going to be easy 
for UF.
The Gators will be without 
their leading scorers — Michael Frazier II (ankle sprain) and Dorian Finney-Smith (suspen-sion; violation of team rules) — 
for the second-straight game.
Without them, Florida will 
need to embrace the mantra of 
“the whole is greater than the 
sum of its parts,” a saying Dono-
van has preached to his team all year.
The season may look lost, 
but at least one positive can still 
come out of it.
The Gators just need one more 
win.3, ALLIGATOR, TIPOFF   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2015
AIR JORDAN
Chance for Donovan’s 500th win gives down season meaning
When: Saturday at 1 
p.m.
Where: Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana
TV: CBS
Series Record: LSU 
leads 61-43Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 68-61 loss to No. 1 Kentucky on Feb. 7 in the 
O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126