We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 125 THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
Walton wants to see increased 
production from UF softball
The Gators have struggled at the plate since 
Southeastern Conference play began, pg 16
Pollen season bad for cars, great for car wash  
businesses
One car-wash owner said business doubled, pg 5
Locals to learn art of fermentation on Saturday
Participants can learn how to make kombucha and beer, pg 3THE AVENUE
The third annual Jest Fest is this Sunday at a dif-
ferent location than past years, pg 10.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator 
Somebunny to Love
Kathy Finelli, 66, director of Gainesville Rabbit Rescue, holds an unnamed bunny for students to pet on the Plaza of the 
Americas on Wednesday. Once the bunnies are old enough  for their gender to be determined, they will be named.
IT WILL RAISE MONEY FOR 
BREAST CANCER RESEARCH.
By Laura Escobar
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s all-female surf club plans to shred 
breast cancer.
The Wahines of the Waves will host their 
inaugural Barrels for Boobs Surf Contest in St. Augustine on Saturday to raise money 
for the Florida Breast Cancer Foundation.  
The competition is from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
at Butler Beach in the quest to raise $5,000, 
said Jenna Curtis, one of WOW’s vice pres-
idents. Advanced registration is $15 per division and $20 at the event. Nonsurfers can watch for free. So far, 29 people have 
registered.
“(Breast cancer) affects a lot of peo-ple — it takes a lot of lives,” said Curtis, 
a 20-year-old UF environmental science sophomore.
Surfers will compete in different catego-
ries, including women’s beginner, women’s shortboard, women’s longboard, men’s be-ginner, men’s shortboard, men’s longboard, tandem and weirdest thing you can surf.
The competition is open to the public. 
People who have never been on a surfboard are encouraged to participate in the begin-ner’s division, said Rachel O’Neal, a regis-tered surfer in the competition and member of WOW.
“There’s so many people I know com-
peting that just started surﬁ  ng or have only been out there once,” the 20-year-old UF communication sciences and disorders ju-
nior said.  UF club to hold Barrels for Boobs surf competition
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Unopposed candidates Conor Flynn and 
Hannah Gwynn were elected Santa Fe Col-
lege Student Body president and vice presi-
dent on Wednesday night.
Justin Deese was elected treasurer with 
42 more votes than his opponent Timothy 
Bergman.Flynn and Gwynn said 
they are excited and look for-
ward to taking ofﬁ  ce.
“We want to hit the 
ground running,” Flynn said. 
“We’re excited to be able to 
push the issues of the students to the front 
of our agendas and Student Government’s agenda.”
This year, 692 people voted. Turnout 
was lower than last year’s when 1,134 stu-dents voted. There are about 15,700 students enrolled in 
Santa Fe, meaning about 4 
percent of students voted.
Flynn, Gwynn and Deese 
will take ofﬁ  ce the night of 
April 15 after they are sworn in at Student Senate.
Chief Justice Elana Gold announced SFC student exec ticket, treasurer electedSEE BOOBS,  PAGE 4
SEE ELECTIONS,  PAGE 4CAMPUS
By Lacy Rubloff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Singer T-Pain and comedian John Mulaney will 
perform on campus Friday night, but students will 
only be able to see one or the other. 
The Reitz Union Board of Entertainment is fea-
turing T-Pain and Mulaney in its second annual Big Orange Festival at 9 p.m. Friday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
While the event is free, students who want to at-
tend have to choose between the two shows. 
Heather Halak, the Big Orange 
Festival chairwoman, said it’s due to the Grand Ballroom’s capacity and Reitz Union construction. 
Mulaney’s show will seat 
roughly 700 students. The chairs will be removed for T-Pain’s per-formance, allowing for about 800 
students, she said. 
As of press time, there were 
216 vouchers left for Mulaney and 324 for T-Pain. 
They can be picked up today from 12 to 3 p.m. on the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union. 
Halak, a 21-year-old UF English and linguistics 
senior, said she didn’t think it would be fair to cap the attendance at 800 to see both shows. 
“More students can experience more of the 
event,” she said. 
RUB is paying $35,000 to bring in T-Pain and an-
other $27,000 for Mulaney. Last year, the band Best Coast was paid $25,000 to perform, according to Al-ligator archives.
“I feel like we’ve had a lot of awesome hip-hop 
artists on campus, but I feel like T-Pain is one of the most well-known,” Halak said.
Eitan Schapsis, a UF public relations senior, said 
Mulaney is his favorite comedian, and he is looking forward to the performance. However, the 22-year-old said he thinks the split event is a little awkward. 
“You would think you would just have one 
show,” he said. “Maybe it’s just crowd control, so I could see why.” Big Orange Fest 
acts split into two shows 
T-Pain
SANTA FESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 125
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vote to Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest 
videos are up on UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education Facebook page and are 
awaiting your views. Check out 
all three and like your favorites. Videos are awarded points in the Fan Favorites category of judging based on Facebook likes at face-book.com/STRIVEUF/videos.
Fifth annual GASA Glenti
The Greek American Student 
Association and the Department 
of Classics present the GASA Glenti. Join them in the Touchdown Terrace (in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium) from 8 to 11 p.m. Friday. Listen to traditional Greek music, taste authentic Greek cui-sine and experience the culture of Greece. The event is free and 
open to the public.
Gay Movie Night on Friday at 7:30 
p.m.
“Southern Baptist Sissies” is a film adaptation of the theatrical expe-rience of writer and director Del Shores’ GLAAD Award-winning play about four gay boys grow-
ing up in the Southern Baptist 
Church. The intimate experience of theater on the film screen re-veals the complicated emotions from all sides — the confused child, the struggling adolescent and the angry and damaged adult. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community 
Center of North Central Florida, 
3131 NW 13th St. A $2 donation is requested to help costs.Inner Tube Water Polo tourna-
mentInner tube water polo is played just as its name suggests. 
Participants will play the tradi-
tional sport of water polo while sitting in inner tubes to make this game fun for anyone. No experi-ence is necessary. Participants must register by 5 p.m. today on IMLeagues. It will be at the Florida Pool on Saturday.
Art and Science Panel Discussion
Join artists, scientists and cura-tors at the Harn Museum of Art on Saturday at 2 p.m. as they engage with the shared history of science and art highlighted in the installation “Repurposing the Wunderkammer: Building a New Space for Science and Art,” and 
welcome audience discussion on 
future collaborations in these dis-ciplines. For more information, visit harn.ufl.edu/exhibitions/artandtechnology or contact ek-ing@harn.ufl.edu. The Harn Museum offers free parking on weekends and free admission.
Interorganizational Mock Trial
Interested in moot court, mock trial or trial advocacy in general? The Pre-Legal Honor Society, Phi Alpha Delta, and the American Mock Trial Association will be competing in an interorganiza-tional mock trial competition this weekend in the Advocacy 
Center of the UF Levin College 
of Law. The first round will take place Saturday from 8:30 a.m. to around noon. The second round will take place the same day from 1 to around 4 p.m. The third and final championship round will take place from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Sunday. Cost of attendance will be $5 for full admission to all 
three rounds. All proceeds will 
benefit the Wounded Warriors Project. 
Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit 
submissionsAlachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center is seek-ing art submissions for the 2015 
Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit 
held April 24 to 30 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris Books in Gainesville. Survivors are encouraged to submit original artwork of all forms, including performance pieces. For more in-formation, call 352-264-6763.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Tyler McLennan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can learn 
how to make anything from beer to 
goat cheese this weekend.
The Florida Skill-Share Alliance 
will host its ﬁ  rst Fermentation Fest 
Saturday from from 3 to 9 p.m. at 
the Wilhelmina Johnson Resource Center, at 321 NW 10th St. 
The Fermentation Fest will of-
fer events all afternoon, including hands-on workshops hosted by lo-cal fermentation experts, nutrition-based presentations, trade circles and live music by Mama Trish, a lo-cal musician. Admission to the event is free, but a donation of $5 to $10 is suggested. Workshop topics include fermenting breads, cheeses, spices, 
sodas, beers, wines and other food 
and beverages.
The donations will be equally 
split between the Wilhelmina John-son Center and future projects, said Sarah Cervone, one of the alliance’s co-organizers.
Of the 14 scheduled workshops, 
alliance co-organizer Joe Pierce will 
host one on sourdough fermentation.
“Sourdough fermentation has be-come more and more popular and 
interesting to the public,” Pierce said. “Health awareness and local food is a big part of that.”
Fermentation produces good bac-
teria and probiotics, which aid in di-gestion and strengthen the immune system, Cervone said, adding the fermentation process makes it easier for the body to absorb nutrients.
“People have been fermenting 
their food for thousands of years,” Cervone said.  “It is only recently that we began eating what we refer 
to as ‘dead food,’” or manufactured 
food. Locals to learn the art of fermentation at Saturday festival
Nutritional beneﬁ  ts of fer-
mented foods  by Woody Blue
K e ﬁ r  by Gabriela Waschewsky
Kombucha  by Kelsey Elizabeth 
and Emily SnickerdoodleSourdough  by Joe Pierce and 
Mosswood FarmstoreGoat cheese  in a day by Lucy 
YorkT empe  by Jose, Damian and 
FrancesBlack Garlic  by Mark Borkin
Ciders & Mead  by Conner Las-
siterHomebrew beer  by (TBD)
Sauerkraut  by Sarah and Wild 
Man FoodsKimchi by Casey and Wild Man FoodsTe a  by Radical Press Coffee 
Collective and Michael GarvinBeet Kvaas  by Kelly CarvalisHands-on Workshops:4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
From left: Santa Fe Student Government Senator-elect Iyanuoluwa “Israel” Okeowo poses for a photo 
with President-elect Conor Flynn, Vice President-elect Hannah Gwynn and Treasurer-elect Justin Deese at the Senate meeting on Wednesday. 
the winners nearly two hours into 
Wednesday’s Senate meeting, after senators debated on then approved 
the 2015-16 budget.
No candidates ran for chief jus-
tice, meaning the position will be 
left vacant after Gold leaves office.
Flynn and Gwynn will face chal-
lenges as soon as they take office. 
The most immediate is resolv-
ing what Gwynn calls the personal drama in SG that many senators say 
has prevented Senate from properly 
functioning for the past two semes-ters.
They also plan to become more 
connected and engaged with stu-dents by hosting monthly town hall-style meetings in the Oak Grove and sending leadership team members to all of Santa Fe’s campuses.
“I’m extremely, extremely happy 
Justin won,” Senate President Jere-my Pierce said. “I can’t tell you how happy I am.”
Deese said he plans to distribute 
Santa Fe’s activity and service fees toward clubs so there will be more money to spend on what he said he thinks will benefit students the most.
To be effective in their new posi-
tions, Student Body President Aus-tin Browning said Flynn and Gwynn will need to be problem solvers who 
can keep order in SG, as well as be 
proactive in reaching out to stu-dents.
“I think they’re going to be a 
good team,” Browning said. “But only time will tell.”
After Leadership Team an-
nouncements, senators also ap-proved a $700 overflow request by 
the club Society for Nerds to attend 
MegaCon next month in Orlando.
Senate also approved two bills, 
one which clarified the allocation of overflow funds and one which 
removed a $10 fine against students 
who broke campaigning rules.ELECTIONS,  from pg 1The newly elected students want to focus on eliminating dramaTHE ARCHER ROAD 
LOCATION REOPENED 
MARCH 16.
By Aaron Albright
Alligator Contributing Writer
Change is in the air on Archer 
Road, and it smells like oak-smoked 
barbeque.
After seven months of construc-
tion, Sonny’s BBQ, located at 3635 SW Archer Road, reopened March 
16 in a new building.
The new restaurant now sits 
slightly closer to the road, with a larger sign outfitted with the new logo. The old building is gone, and in its place is the parking lot. 
Sonny’s BBQ first opened in 
Gainesville in 1968, where it was founded by Floyd “Sonny” Tillman. With the rebranding, Coy Joyner, an assistant general manager of the Ar-cher Road location, said he wants to continue of-fering the good food and service its guests have come to expect.
The white brick walls 
at the new Sonny’s BBQ are stacked to the ceiling with oak logs. Sheets of metal line the counter, and the oak wood smoker, which used to be back in the kitchen, is now one of the first things customers see. Joyner said they 
redesigned around putting the smoker near the front. 
“We want every-
one to see that we’re 
cooking fresh,” he said.
Outside, picnic tables line the 
front porch of the building. Large, garage-like doors with windows con-nect the dining area to the porch. 
Margaret Kennard, 74, and Nan-cy Sanders, 47, have met for lunch at the Archer Road location every Wednesday for the past four years.
Kennard, who has been going to 
Sonny’s for about 20 years, said she enjoys it because it has always been packed with familiar faces. 
However, she said she isn’t a fan 
of the change. 
“It doesn’t have the old Sonny’s 
feel that we remember,” she said. “But we’re trying to adjust.”
Local Sonny’s gets makeover as part of company’s rebrand
Free beach yoga lessons will 
also be offered to participants and 
competitors at 8 a.m. Raffle tick-
ets and T-shirts can be purchased 
for a donation.WOW wanted to create an 
event that focuses on having a good time for a good cause, Cur-tis said, which is why there is the “weirdest thing you can surf” di-
vision.
O’Neal said she is looking 
forward to this part of the com-petition and may bring a piece of 
plywood to surf on. She said she heard other people are planning to bring inflatable animals.
Curtis said WOW members 
also hope to highlight their or-ganization, an all-girls extreme sports club started in 2011. “As far as we know, we’re 
the only club of our kind,” Cur-tis said. “We want women to be empowered to not be afraid to go out there with the guys and catch 
a wave.”
WOW hosts wakeboarding, 
skimboarding and skating events throughout the year.
Although the organization 
hopes to recruit new members, its 
main focus is on fundraising for the foundation.
Curtis said the club wants to 
educate women and emphasize the importance of self check-ups.
BOOBS,  from pg 1Organizers want everyone regardless of skill level to have funLOCAL
“W e’re excited to be able to 
push the issues of the students 
to the front of our agendas 
and Student Government’s 
agenda.”
Conor Flynn
Student Body president-electTHURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Painting the Moment
Frannie Pawlak, an 18-year-old UF chemical engineering freshman, paints a T-shirt on Wednesday during 
Paint Your Orgasm, an event held on the North Lawn as part of Pride Awareness Month.
ONE CAR WASH    
OWNER SAID            
BUSINESS DOUBLED.
By Olivia Vega and 
Marisa Stelnicki 
Alligator Contributing Writers
Although most Gainesville 
residents grumble about pol-
len season, a select few re-
joice, namely car wash own-
ers.
“Pollen season is a good 
thing for car washes,” said 
Scott Martin, owner of Tropic 
Car Wash on Ar-cher Road. “If a car wash owner could ﬁ  gure out 
how to put pol-
len in the air, he would do it.”
Martin said he has seen the 
number of cars at his wash double thanks to pollen sea-son. 
If a person has allergies, 
they only worsen when ex-
posed to a car covered in pol-
len.
Jasmine Anderson, a ca-
shier at Park Place Car Wash 
on Northwest Fourth Bou-
levard, said the best way to keep pollen off a car is by waxing it. 
“Keeping a wax is always 
best to keep the paint safe,” Anderson said.
Eric Renney, one of the 
cashiers at Tropic Car Wash, 
said pollen could be damaging 
to the clear coat, the outside layer that makes the paint shiny and protects it. If the pollen get through that coat,  it could also ruin the paint.
For some college students, 
though, the cost may not be 
worth it. 
Ashley Dunne, a 19-year-
old UF psychology freshman, 
said she doesn’t want to spend the money to get her 
car washed when she could 
be spending that money on more important and neces-sary things while on a college 
budget.
“I don’t really get my 
car washed every week or 
month,” Dunne 
said. “I wait for 
it to rain because 
the next day I feel like it will just get covered in 
pollen again, so I 
feel like it is pointless to get it 
washed.”
Dunne said moving her 
car from out under the trees 
when spots are available has 
helped her car not get coated with pollen, but it is never perfectly clean during pollen 
season.
“I ﬁ  nd the pollen to be re-
ally annoying because I walk 
outside, and my car is cov-ered in it,” she said. “It looks 
disgusting.”
Although the end of pol-
len season may not seem 
near, summer will be back 
to Gainesville within a few 
months. 
And when summer comes 
around?
“Lovebug season,” Martin 
said.    Pollen season bad 
for cars — great for car wash businessBy Stella Heekin
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time, people can submit themes for UF’s 
Homecoming Week and Gator Growl. 
The theme contest for this year’s production, called 
“You Choose,” opened on Monday and ends 
at midnight on April 2. 
The 92nd Homecoming and Gator Growl 
aims to bring the pep rally back to the stu-dents and alumni with this contest, said San-tiago Ramirez, associate producer of com-munications for Homecoming and Gator Growl. 
To submit a theme, the organization linked a Google 
form on its Facebook page and Twitter account, Ramirez said. The winner will receive a free ticket to the show this Fall. In the ﬁ  rst 24 hours of the contest opening, Ramirez 
said it received more than 30 responses.
“We want to make sure the students feel like they’re 
being more involved with the decisions,” the 21-year-old political science junior said.  
The move to Flavet Field last year from Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n 
Stadium came from several years of mixed feedback from students and alumni who felt out of touch with Growl, Ramirez said.   
Maria Valencia, a senior journalism stu-
dent at UF, attended Gator Growl her fresh-man and senior years.
“I feel like if they keep it in Flavet, more people will 
go,” Valencia, 22, said. 
She said she liked the move to Flavet in comparison 
to the stadium because she felt closer to the action of the show.Gator Growl looking for theme ideas
LOCALCAMPUSThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORFacebook hosting 
news may not be 
such a good idea
Facebook was perhaps the pioneer social networking site, 
surpassing early failures and moderate successes like Myspace. Today, though, it’s often seen as a congested social hellscape, overrun with posts from your pregnant high school classmates, vaguely racist rants and OMG this 
adorable little girl asked her brother where babies come from and YOU WON’T BELIEVE WHAT HAPPENED NEXT.
It looks like Facebook’s status may be changing, though, as 
the company looks for ways to propel itself further and further into the future. Tuesday, The New York Times reported that Facebook has been meeting with a few major media outlets. Why? Well, the company is discussing plans to publish articles and content from these sources directly onto Facebook’s site, 
rather than on the websites for individual publications.
This development has the potential to cause enormous up-
heaval — we wonder if any of it will be good.
Right now, social media sites are pretty much life-support 
systems for media outlets. As you know, newspapers, magazines and the like depend on advertising dollars to stay aﬂ  oat. With 
print in decline, news organizations depend on social media sites to distribute links to their stories and content far beyond their normal reach. Facebook is the most prominent broker of this type of deal — high shares on Facebook bring in views and ad-vertising dollars, helping news organizations keep the lights on. For that reason, Facebook’s proposal would change this way of running things. Media outlets would publish directly to Face-book, eliminating the need for readers to go to the outlets’ indi-vidual sites to look at stories or videos. Just as well, ads would appear on Facebook instead of on their individual pages, too — Facebook would share ad revenue, obviously.
This could be great. It would streamline the content-sharing 
process, raking in that sweet, sweet ad money faster than ever. And, it would serve to make Facebook more palatable. In 2014, Facebook was the only major social network to see a decline in active usage per month.
But there’s something a bit ominous about the idea. Should they go through with it, media companies would be 
placing their lives in Facebook’s hands, and what ﬁ  ckle hands those are. That’s because Facebook, at the end of the day, cares only about Facebook. If this doesn’t work out for it, the media companies’ boom could quickly become a bust. Things like this have happened before: On April 10, 2012, 4 million people were using The Washington Post’s social reader on Facebook. But Facebook changed the way its content algorithm works, causing readership to evaporate to zero by April 14. The same thing hap-pened to Upworthy, whose readership declined 25 percent in a single month following an algorithm change.
Buying into Facebook’s plan may be beneﬁ  cial in the short-
term, but placing so much trust in this giant company could be 
extremely dangerous, not to mention the ethical quandary of al-
lowing the massive company to control media content. Let’s not forget: Companies like Facebook and Google are the Standard Oil and Carnegie Steel of our time. We should be careful about how 
much inﬂ  uence we freely give them.
Ted Cruz’s campaign will sharpen up the GOP
On Monday, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz announced his 
candidacy for president of the U.S. With the simple tweet “I’m running for President and I hope to earn your support!” the 2016 election season began. The checks will be written. There will be stump speech-
es. Babies will be kissed. Ronald Reagan will be invoked. Flag pins will be worn.
Though I would consider myself a Jeb Bush-man, Ted 
Cruz’s presence in the Republican Primary will help the Grand Old Party. Some will unquestionably object to this with, “How can the person who shut down the government beneﬁ  t Republicans? He will more likely help Democrats.”
No, Ted Cruz, the epitome of a Tea-Party candidate, is 
the best candidate for the populist-wing of the right. Con-
sider who else is actively courting this Republican base: Scott 
Walker and Ben Carson.
Scott Walker, the now accent-free Wisconsin governor, 
has been surprisingly stumbling over himself. He made what some saw as a comparison between ﬁ  ghting unions in his home state and prospectively ﬁ  ghting the Islamic State group abroad. He also bumbled a response to a gotcha question about evolution. It’s early, but Walker’s responses are wor-rying his supporters. He may not be ready for primetime.
Ben Carson, the uber-religious neurosurgeon, is unsur-
prisingly stumbling over himself as well. In the latest bit of foot-in-the-mouth disease, the good doctor noted that being gay was a choice. His logic: People go into prison straight, have gay sex behind bars and leave gay. Ergo, being gay is a choice. Carson, the only prospective candidate who is part of the anti-political-correctness movement, is deﬁ  nitely championing the cause.
Ted Cruz does not have to worry about the issues that 
plague Walker and Carson. Cruz has a ﬁ  rst-rate intelligence and is extremely disciplined in his approach to politics. He stays on message and on point. He is a great speaker who doesn’t rely on notes or teleprompters. He powerfully ad-dresses his audience, no matter their age.
In a recent speech Cruz said, “The Obama economy is a 
disaster, Obamacare is a train wreck, and the Obama-Clinton foreign policy of leading from behind — the whole world’s on ﬁ  re.” A 3-year-old sitting in the front row innocently chimed in, “The world’s on ﬁ  re?”
The senator, with impeccable tim-
ing, responded “The world is on ﬁ  re, 
yes! Your world is on ﬁ  re. But you 
know what? Your mommy’s here, and everyone’s here to make sure the world you grow up in is even better.” Good response. Great improvisation. Great political instincts.   
I doubt Walker and Carson would have responded that 
well. Walker would have awkwardly brought up his union-busting tactics. Since he put out the ﬁ  res in Wisconsin’s bud-
get, he can put of ﬁ  res on the world stage. Carson would 
predictably insert gays in his response — you can think of your own example.
On a purely rhetorical level, Cruz is at the top of the GOP 
ﬁ  eld. He is polished and poised on stage. He never seems to falter or get ﬂ  ustered. His experience as the Solicitor Gen-eral of Texas and advocating before the Supreme Court have helped him in this capacity. When he was a candidate for the Texas Senate seat back in 2012, he out-debated his op-
ponents. The 1992 North American Debating Championship 
Top Speaker and U.S. National Speaker of the Year at Princ-eton has been waiting to show his stuff on the big stage.
I personally look forward to it.Since Cruz is a great candidate with a message and plan 
in mind, he will force Jeb Bush and other Republicans to campaign better. The primary debates featuring Bush and Cruz will pit the best of the establishment against the best up-and-coming grassroots activists. It will be a ﬁ  ght over the 
soul of the GOP and will shape the party for years to come.
Since this election — like all presidential elections — is 
so important, we need serious candidates to excel. If Cruz, 
the best anti-establishment politician on the right, can attract support away from Carson and Walker, the future electoral prospects of the right look strong.   
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Check out the latest binge-drinking game:
Here’s a hint: meth is involved, pg. 8-9Prep for Big Orange Festival with our playlist: 
T-Pain’s throwback jams are included, pg. 10By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
Atmosphere is returning to 
Gainesville after eight years, and rapper Sean “Slug” Daley has ex-pressed anticipation.
“I’m looking forward to 
Gainesville and all of the loose alligators that roam the streets there,” Daley said as his tour bus headed to the next stop, Jackson-
ville Beach. “I can’t wait to pet 
one.”
The underground hip-hop duo 
will perform tonight at High Dive, 
located at 210 SW Second Ave., 
as part of their ﬁ  rst-ever Wel-
come to Florida tour. The show will kick off at 8 p.m. with DJ Fundo spinning. Opening emcees 
Prof and deM atlaS will follow at 
9 p.m., leading up to Atmosphere 
right after.
      
At the start, Daley didn’t set 
out to form a group. He said sim-
ply making music while hanging 
out with friends transformed into 
a full-blown music career.
“I don’t think there was any 
moment where we were like ‘Yo, 
did you see LL Cool J did it? We should do it, too,’” Daley said. 
“We didn’t have any moments 
like that; it was just kind of like 
we baby-stepped our way into it accidentally.”
For more than 20 years, the Minneapolis-based indie rap group, now consisting of Daley and DJ and producer Anthony “Ant” Davis, has reached various types of audiences.
“Their crowd is very diverse 
and spans many backgrounds and musical tastes,” said Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents.
When asked what the usual 
crowd is like, Daley said they get pretty mixed crowds at their per-formances.
“I would say they’re like 80 percent human, 20 percent un-known,” Daley said, joking.
The crowd can most likely ex-
pect to hear Atmosphere’s hit sin-gle “Kanye West,” which the duo performed on Conan in June, and it is also featured on their latest album called “Southsiders.”
In the song, Daley raps “throw 
your hands in the sky like Kanye West.”
Daley said he chose to use 
Kanye West because as an artist, West exempliﬁ  es the concept of when you care so much, it ap-pears that you actually just don’t really care.
Daley describes Atmosphere’s 
style as being heavily inﬂ  uenced by music from the ‘80s and said 
his lyrics are inspired by the ex-
periences that have shaped his life.
“They have an honesty and 
a depth to their lyrics that isn’t 
seen in most mainstream hip-
hop,” said Lavery.
Daley had advice for young 
artists who are trying to make it: 
Honesty is one of the most impor-
tant traits to possess.
“Be honest to people. Be hon-
est to yourself,” Daley said. “Just 
be honest to everybody that you 
come into contact with because if 
you have to hustle somebody just 
to listen to you, then they’re not really listening.”
      
Tickets can be purchased at 
the door for $21 or in advance for $18 at High Tides Tobacco and Gifts, 2413 SW 13th St., as well as  ticketweb.comTHURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Hip-hop duo Atmosphere, consisting of rapper Sean “Slug” Daley and disc jockey and producer Anthony “Ant” Davis,  are returning to Gainesville after eight years to perform at High Dive tonight.
Hip-hop duo Atmosphere returns to Gainesville tonight
MUSIC
By Lilianne Busto
Avenue Writer
Local artists can have a place 
to showcase their work to the 
community Sunday.
Gainesville Art 
Scene is hosting the Spring Local Arts Fes-tival and Fundraiser 
from 3 to 8 p.m. The 
fundraiser will be held at First Magnitude Brewing Company, 1220 SE Veitch St. Admission is free for everyone. 
“A portion of the proceeds 
from FM Brewery core yearly beers will be donated, so through having a beer or buying one for someone, you will be supporting local artists,” Txong Moua, arts 
coordinator for Gainesville Art 
Scene and Gainesville Artwalk, 
wrote in an email.
Throughout the 
festival, there will be live art demonstra-tions, interactive art, bands and the Soup 
to Nuts Food Truck, along with a 
number of artists displaying their 
art. About 300 people are expect-ed to attend, Moua said. 
First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany does a lot of events to sup-port the community, said Chris-tine Denny, co-founder of First Magnitude Brewing Company.
“There is no speciﬁ  c amount 
that we are trying to raise,” Den-ny said. “We are just trying to raise awareness about art.”
After seeing her friends RSVP 
for the event on Facebook, Kath-erine Dagand, a 20-year-old UF political science and public rela-tions junior, said she plans to at-tend.
“I love festivals, especially art 
ones because they bring the com-munity together and it is some-thing different to do instead of 
just going to local bars,” Dagand 
said. “I get really inspired by the culture and the messages those artists portray in their works.”
There will also be a rafﬂ  e tak-
ing place during the event for gift cards and items from local busi-nesses.
Donations will be accepted to 
continue running the monthly 
Artwalk event that is held the last 
Friday of each month from 7 to 10 p.m.
Gainesville Artwalk is a free monthly event that combines vi-
sual art and live performances to 
experience the creativity that the Gainesville community has to of-fer. 
On Friday, First Magnitude 
Brewing Company will also be one of the stops during the Art-walk.
The Gainesville Art Scene and 
Gainesville Artwalk makes it pos-
sible to raise awareness and teach 
others about the importance of art, Denny said.
Spring Local Arts Festival and Fundraiser at First Magnitude
The free event will be held from 3 to 8 p.m. Sunday
ARTS“A portion of the proceeds from FM Brewery core yearly 
beers will be donated, so through having a beer or buying one 
for someone, you will be supporting local artists.”
Txong Moua
Gainesville Art Scene and Art Walk Arts Coordinator THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
By Moriah Gaynor
Avenue Writer
Seven years ago, television was graced with what many now con-
sider the best TV series about a high school teacher turned meth 
cook of all time. Just in 2013, “Breaking Bad” series creator Vince Gilligan was here at UF with the Accent Speaker’s Bureau, where he answered questions about the show and his creative process.
With the devilishly hilarious spin-off “Better Call Saul” hitting its 
mid-season stride, what better way to pay homage than with a revisi-tation to the original series — now with alcohol. For the veterans out there, no half measures. For the uninitiated, once you get acquainted with the concept of Hal from “Malcolm in the Middle” cooking meth 
semi-nude in an RV out in the New Mexico desert, you’ll be golden.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. 
Check back next week for the newest game.TAKE A SIP when...
Walt yells at Jesse
Waltʼs stash of money is on-screenSomebody does drugsLife canʼt get worse for Jesse, until it doesJesse says “yo” or “bitch”
FINISH YOUR DRINK 
when...
Walt is referred to as Heisenberg or puts on the hatWalt Jr. eats breakfastThereʼs a cooking montage (meth, of course)Br eaking
 Ba dBy Kelsi and Keri Matwick
Avenue Writers
There is a lot of comfort and satisfac-
tion to be found in a bowl: the creamy, soothing bowl of oatmeal bathing in a pool of maple syrup, dried fruits, salty, crunchy nuts and cream; the hot, nour-ishing bowl of clear chicken broth to nurse the snifﬂ  es and banish away the rain and dreary clouds; the ﬁ  lling bowl of pasta coated in a rich tomato sauce with 
juicy meatballs and salty, cheesy parme-
san. This is a bowl that at once restores and energizes, soothes and satiates.
A bowl allows us to experience the 
meal. Unlike a plate, a bowl allows us 
to hold it, cradle it and feel the warmth 
of chili or the chill of ice cream. A bowl holds promises of pleasing bites. Food is ready for the spoon to scoop up or the 
chopstick to tangle it. One does not cut 
food in a bowl.  
A bowl can be as ornate or unpreten-
tious as one wishes. The ﬁ  ne-boned china bowl for the special dinner of signiﬁ  cant 
guests serve as a receptacle for braised short ribs. There’s the daily, white bowl for morning cereal, the family heirloom of carved wood for decoration and the workday salad dish.
A bowl is a vessel to serve foods, from 
a simple steaming bowl of white rice to a Persian-style pilau — a triple-layered rice dish with vegetables, nuts, curd cheese and fruit, each layer ﬂ  avored with differ-ent spices and ingredients. A bowl that matches the food in level of decoration is most satisfying and suitable.
As Nigel Slater, a British cookbook 
author, describes in his 2014 book “Eat: The Little Book of Fast Food,” a bowl ful-ﬁ  ls the same purpose: “To hold our food and enable us, should we wish, to cradle it. Comfort food at its most satisfying.”
Comfort food: best served in a bowl
FOOD
Comfort foods to 
add to your bowl:
Baked potato soup
Ice cream
Macaroni and cheese
Chili
Chicken casserole“STRANGERS TO OURSELVES” 
IS THE BAND’S FIRST ALBUM 
IN EIGHT YEARS. 
By Ashley Schiffman
Avenue Writer
Modest Mouse’s new album, 
“Strangers to Ourselves,” had been 
eight years coming, and it ﬁ  nally ar-
rived March 16. With so many years 
since its last studio album, expecta-tions were high.
Any band trying to make a come-
back album after a hiatus has noth-ing short of a difﬁ  cult task on their hands. Modest Mouse had to live up to its own reputation because of the hit songs that opened them up to a 
bigger audience like “Float On” and 
“Dashboard.”
Even with years of experience, ev-
ery lyric, chord and note is getting 
judged critically.The title, “Strangers to Ourselves,” 
is reﬂ  ective of the artists. This album 
is unlike their previous ones. It is al-
most as if the artists detached from 
the usual creative spunk and devel-oped an album full of songs challeng-ing their youth and relevancy.
Every minuscule sound is ﬁ  ne-
tuned and perfected to make heartwarming music. It is deﬁ  nitely an album for a mul-
titude of occasions: a 
road trip soundtrack, workout pump-up or cool-down tunes and ﬁ  tting background noise 
for studying.
This is the band’s sixth album, 
and, at this point, Modest Mouse 
seem to have exhausted all of the creative juices that used to ﬂ  ow with 
authenticity. The songs are drawn 
out but have great musical integrity. The instrumental additives are what make Modest Mouse such an amaz-ing band.
In this album it has included in-
struments such as the violin and piano to match their rock-vibe. It is always pleasant to the ear to have a classical instrument intertwined with 
a different genre, and Modest Mouse 
did it well.
Since no one knows 
when Modest Mouse 
will release an album 
after this (if it even 
does), I would have 
preferred them to come back with a bang. Even with the prereleased song 
“Lampshades on Fire” doing well on 
Billboard charts, I don’t really see “Strangers to Ourselves” being a top album. But it should not be listened to lightly. 
An iconic band making a decent 
album is still considered incredible music in my book.Review: Modest Mouse’s newest 
album doesn’t meet expectations
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
By Nicolette Hoffman
Avenue Writer
World-famous circus perform-
ers and Broadway ﬁ  lm stars will 
take the stage Sunday at the third 
annual Jest Fest.
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department will be hosting Jest 
Fest from noon to 6 p.m. at the 
Historic Thomas Center and Gar-
dens. Admission is free.
“In a total of six hours, audi-
ences will have the chance to see the most amazing performers of 
magic, comedy and daring rou-tines coming from across the U.S. 
right in front of them,” said David 
Ballard, the events coordinator 
for Jest Fest. “Audiences will see 
acts that bring laughter and fun, but they will also see the great 
skills of juggling ﬁ  re and walking 
on high wire.”
For the last two years, Jest Fest  
occurred each Saturday night in April at 6 p.m. for a two-hour 
show on the Bo Diddley Commu-
nity Plaza stage downtown.
Ballard said because the pla-
za is closed for renovations this 
year, Jest Fest was moved to the 
Thomas Center. This allowed for the fest to not be spaced out into sequenced days but instead into 
just one with ﬁ  ve stage locations both indoors and outdoors.
Some of the performances for 
Jest Fest include world-renowned circus stars The Flying Wallen-
das, the Ringling Brothers and 
Barnum and Bailey circus star, 
12-year-old ventriloquist Cole 
Tucker and more.
Avner Eisenberg, a clown and 
ﬁ  lm star, said he is looking for-
ward to reconnecting with some 
of his oldest best friends while at 
the festival and watching them 
perform. Eisenberg’s stage name is Avner the Eccentric.
“Performing is the calmest 
part of my day,” Eisenberg said. “I am home when I am on stage, 
and the audience is invited into 
this world I have created with my 
character.”
Michael Kaufman, known as 
Magical Mystical Michael, is one of the magicians who will be per-
forming.
“I know all of these perform-
ers personally, and I hope people 
will be inﬂ  uenced by the shows,” 
he said. “It’s a great feeling when you impact someone’s life by do-
ing something you love.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Clown and ﬁ  lm star Avner Eisenberg, whose stage name is Avner the Eccentric, will be return-
ing to perform at this year’s Jest Fest on Sunday.
3rd annual Jest Fest on Sunday moves location, one day only
MUSIC
By Michaela Beeda
Avenue Writer
If you haven’t already heard the 
beats of T-Pain blaring off the walls 
of a club or an outrageous house par-
ty, it’s time to listen up.
T-Pain will be performing at 11 
p.m. at the Big Orange Festival on Fri-
day, so if you’re a little behind on his 
most popular hits, here is a playlist 
that will ﬁ  ll your mind with alcohol-induced nostalgia.
“Take your Shirt Off”
...And twist it in the air like a heli-
copter. This song, originally released 
in 2009, is upbeat and fun. It’s the kind of song that pulls you out onto 
the dance ﬂ  oor and keeps you there 
for a while.
“Buy U A Drank” featuring Yung 
Joc
If you have money in your bank, 
why not buy someone a drank? Es-pecially if that someone is appealing to the eye. This song is catchy and a pretty accurate description of any-one’s thought process as they head to 
the bar.
“Up Down (Do This All Day)” fea-
turing B.o.B
This song was released in 2013 
and is the ﬁ  rst single from the album 
“T-Pain Presents Happy Hour: The Greatest Hits.” If you need a reason to dance, this song will be the per-
fect ﬁ  x. If you’re afraid you may not 
know how to throw it, no worries. T-Pain’s lyrics in this song make for the perfect booty-dancing tutorial.
“5 O’ Clock”  featuring Lily Allen 
and Wiz Khalifa
You know what they say, noth-
ing good happens after 2 a.m. when the clubs let everyone loose and you have the time to check your phone. T-Pain’s lyrics in this song explain 
the dilemma that most college stu-
dents face when it’s late, the Patron is still trapped in your system and you want to see that special someone. The tempo is slow and sets a calm, almost sexual mood.
“Bartender” featuring AkonWho doesn’t like a challenge? 
When the girls away from the bar 
aren’t doing it for you, look to the 
girl behind it. The lyrics are amusing, and even though it is a little slower than most of T-Pain’s songs, it is still catchy.
“Bang Bang Pow Pow” featuring 
Lil Wayne
This song, which is featured on 
his latest album “rEVOLVEr”, is a song about his success and his way to the top. Listen to this song a couple 
times and you’ll feel like you can win 
no matter what.
“I’m N Luv (Wit a Stripper)” fea-
turing Mike Jones
This song is a classic. You have 
probably heard it played and referred to many times before, but go ahead and give it a listen for old times’ sake.
“I’m Sprung”This is another song pulled right 
from the hip-hop history book. One listen and “you’ll be doing things 
you’d never do.”
Your playlist is complete. So 
download those songs, plug in your 
headphones and get pumped for the show.Playlist prep for T-Pain’s performance 
at the Big Orange Festival on Friday
Catch up on comedian John Mulaney, too
Mulaney will also be performing at the Big Orange Festival at 9 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. If you’re not too familiar with his jokes, you still have some time to catch up by checking out some of his work:
“Comedy Central Presents: John Mulaney”
“New In T own”
“The T op Part”
“Mulaney” (his short-lived sitcom)Tonight
Improv Blast: Theatre Strike Force is having its an-
nual Improv Blast at 9 p.m. tonight in the Re-
itz Union Grand Ballroom. Improv groups from around the country will be there, as well as the  Upright Citizens Brigade.
Friday
Femmes art exhibition: From 7 to 9 p.m., there will 
be a collective exhibition of the work of women 
from an advanced painting course at UF. There 
will also be musical entertainment from the local 
R. Mutt Blues band, as well as a cash bar.
Saturday
“Little Shop of Horrors”: Watch members of the 
Gainesville Community Playhouse perform a 
musical version of the ʻ60s horror ﬁ  lm at either 2 or 8 p.m. Performances will run through April 19. Tickets range from $12 to $20 and can be purchased at the box ofﬁ  ce or over the phone.
Sunday
Chamber soloists: The New York Chamber Soloists 
will perform a septet and octet at the University 
Auditorium at 2 p.m. Ticket prices range from $10 to $45 and can be purchased online or by calling the box ofﬁ  ce.
Upcoming EventsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
●● ELLIE’S HOUSES ●●
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
●●● RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ●●●
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-31-15-15-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSEBike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    4-1-15-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-101For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
★★★ We Buy Junk Cars ★★★ ★Trucks, Vans - Titled only ★
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UPPAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!$300 & UP!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
★Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
★Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing 
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:★ supervising the nightly activity of the    production department★ working in coordination with newsroom staff ★ responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:★ Adobe InDesign★ Adobe Illustrator★ Adobe Photoshop★ Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
★ Hiring★ Firing★ Training employees★ Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   1 3 
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl 
basic English and math to help her trans-
fer to the US education system. Experience 
with children and reference required. ~20hr/
wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    
4-2-15-8-14
15 Services
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/30 - 4/3 from 5-7 p.m. each day.   Verbal sessions are M & T; Math sessions are W & R.  Go to the teachingcenter.ufl.edu and click “Study Skills” and “Workshops” to register and learn the location.      3-31-6-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event NoticesTHURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Tim Walton is looking for more 
production from his offense as the season progresses. Read the story on page 16.Follow us on Twitter
For updates from the UF baseball series against Alabama, follow Jordan McPherson (@J_McPherson1126)and Ian Cohen (@IcohenB).By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
The last time No. 4 Florida went 
into a Southeastern Conference se-ries, the results were not what it an-ticipated.
The Gators let their series against 
Ole Miss slip away after dropping the first two games 4-1 and 5-2, giv-ing them their first weekend series loss of the season. They left Oxford, Mississippi, on a semi-high note, however, winning the series finale 8-4.
Now at .500 in conference play, 
Florida (21-5, 3-3 SEC) looks to keep the recent momentum going when it hosts a three-game series against Alabama (13-10, 3-3 SEC) at McK-ethan Stadium.
The series opens tonight at 7, 
with the final two games being played Friday at 7 p.m. and Satur-day at 1 p.m.
UF is coming off a come-from-
behind 9-6 win against Stetson, with senior Josh Tobias hitting a game-sealing two-run homer in the eighth inning.
“It was definitely a big thing 
for us as a team to build our con-fidence,” outfielder Buddy Reed said. “Ole Miss was a tough place. We didn’t obviously play our best baseball and we’re surely capable of doing like, like we did (against Stetson).”
While the Crimson Tide are only batting .277 as a team, they have a lot of power in the middle of their 
lineup.
Junior Mikey White and sopho-
more Casey Hughston are both hit-
ting above .400 this year and have recorded six of Alabama’s nine home runs this year.
“Their lineup is physical,” 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “They’re older. They’ve got a lot of SEC at-bats under their belt.”If Florida wants to jump out to 
a fast start against Alabama, it will 
need to have more production at the 
plate.
And that will in-
clude some more pro-
duction from Tobias
After three years 
of up-and-down performances, the third baseman has been nothing but consistent during his senior year.
Tobias leads Florida with a .391 
batting average, which is good for 
10th in the SEC.
In the last four 
games he’s played, Tobias has a .529 clip 
with five RBIs.
For the first time in his collegiate 
career, Tobias has experimented 
with being a switch hitter instead of solely batting as a righty.
O’Sullivan said Tobias’ batting 
average as a lefty is higher than 
.400.
“I’ve never seen this in my ca-
reer before — a guy hit one way for 
three years and all of a sudden in his 
senior year come back and swing 
the bat from the other side and have 
the success he’s had,” O’Sullivan said. “You’re not going to see this very often. I’m pleased with how 
he’s been playing.”
Women's tennis player honored
UF freshman Josie Kuhlman was named the Southeastern Conference 
Women's T ennis player of the week, the conference announced Wednesday. Kuhlman posted a perfect 4-0 record last week.By Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
 
Installing a new offensive 
scheme can be difficult when there isn’t depth. 
That’s an issue the Florida 
coaching staff is facing with its running back corps.
With the departure of Matt 
Jones to the NFL Draft, Florida has just two backs on the roster with experience — redshirt soph-omore Adam Lane and junior Kel-vin Taylor. 
Brandon Powell, a running 
back last season, will be used more as a slot receiver rather than as a true running back next season.
The new pro-style offense 
marks the fourth scheme in five seasons for Florida, and the third for Taylor. 
Although change is something 
that usually takes time to get used to, Taylor is thrilled with what the new system will allow him to do.
“This offense here is just an of-
fense that’s really, to be honest, just a running back’s dream to be in,” Taylor said. “It’s perfect for a back. Zone read, one cut, down-
hill, catch the ball out the back-
field. You got so many things you can do in this offense, and I think it just fits me perfect.” 
New head coach Jim McEl-
wain and offensive coordinator 
Doug Nussmeier have coached some exception-
ally talented 
backs while at 
Alabama, in-cluding NFL Pro Bowler Eddie 
Lacy, Heisman 
trophy winner 
Mark Ingram and Heisman final-ist Trent Richardson. 
Taylor said he reached out 
to Ingram on Twitter shortly af-ter McElwain was named head coach.
“I know he had great success 
with Mark Ingram, Trent Richard-son and all of those guys,” Tay-lor said. “I also had the chance to talk to Mark Ingram probably like 
two or three weeks ago and he 
said like ‘Man, Coach Mac he’s a really good dude’. I say for myself everyday he’s a great guy.” 
The No. 2 back behind Taylor 
for Spring is Lane, whose break-out performance came in Janu-ary’s Birmingham Bowl, where he had 16 carries for 109 yards and a 
touchdown.
Aside from Lane rumbling in the end zone in the second quar-
ter, it was a rumbling of a differ-ent kind — one within his bow-
els, to be specific — that gave him 
national recognition along with Internet notoriety.
Clearly visible through his 
white pants, Lane soiled himself either during or immediately after the touchdown run.
Sure enough, as soon as he 
came back out from the locker 
room where he went to change, 
the images and videos of Lane’s pants were smeared everywhere — Deadspin.com, SB Nation and 
Busted Coverage all picked it up.
Gators shorthanded in backfield during Spring practiceFOOTBALL
Lane
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Josh T obias bats during Florida's 14-8 win against Florida State on March 17 at McKethan Stadium. T obias 
leads UF with  a .391 batting average, which is the 10th-highest mark in the Southeastern Conference.
Florida baseball opens home series with Alabama tonight
Gators are 3-3 in SEC play this year
BASEBALL
Florida’s starting pitching rotation against Alabama
Thursday:  Aaron Rhodes 
(0-0, 4.05 ERA, 13.1 IP , 2.6 
strikeout-to-walk ratio)
Friday:  Logan Shore (3-2, 2.17 
ERA, 29.0 IP , 3.2 strikeout-to-walk ratio)
Saturday:  Dane Dunning 
(4-0, 1.59 ERA, 28.1 IP , 2.3 strikeout-to-walk ratio)Instead of being embarrassed about 
the accident, Lane took it in stride, and 
said he was happy with the popularity it 
gave him.
“It was the best thing that could have 
happened," Lane said. "It got a lot of at-
tention and just put me in a place where 
I was out there publicly and people knew 
who I was. I really didn’t get a lot of grief from it."
Lane also said he wasn’t even expect-
ing to play during the bowl game, and 
was grateful at the opportunity having 
only seen eight carries in the regular sea-son.
“It was awesome to be out and just be able to showcase my talent and take ad-vantage of the opportunity I had,” Lane 
said.
Aside from Lane and Taylor, the run-
ning back corps will have the luxury of 
a four-star back joining the group as Jor-
dan Scarlett (5-foot-11, 205 pounds, Fort 
Lauderdale, Fla., St. Thomas Aquinas) will step on campus as a true freshman in fall.
Scarlett has the type of talent to com-
pete for the starting job as early as this season, which Taylor said will be wel-comed by the running backs.
“We’re going to welcome him into the 
family,” Taylor said. “I’m sure he’s going to work hard and we’re going to accept him and he’s just gonna have a great sea-son.”THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
At Florida lacrosse practice on Tuesday, a small group of 
players were out warming up 30 minutes before practice was 
actually supposed to begin. It wasn’t a typical, light warm up, either.
Players were going hard, leaving them out of 
breath as they worked their way back into the locker room to cool down before practice really started. 
Among the group was freshmen attackers Shayna Pirreca 
and Bella O’Connor – an offensive duo that has quickly made a positive impact for the Gators since arriving on campus.
The pair of attackers has strengthened Florida’s offense and 
provided an integral spark off the bench. Pirreca has started two games this season and has played in all 11. She and defender Aniya Flanagan are the only freshmen to have started games this year.
Whether it be in the starting rotation or as substitutes, Pir-
reca and O’Connor have certainly given the Gators’ offense a lift. Pirreca has scored 11 goals so far this season, including a four-goal game against San Diego State. 
O’Connor has contributed four goals this year in six appear-
ances, including a hat trick against Michigan.
In a Florida offense that already features vet-
eran players such as Shannon Gilroy, Nora Barry and Nicole Graziano, the immediate impact the freshmen have made has been fully embraced by the team.
“It’s been going pretty well, I mean there are 
some challenges that you have to deal with coming to a new team,” Pirreca said of her first year. “Getting used to the style of play and especially just the faster pace of the game is definitely a big adjustment.”
But Pirreca has made the transition to college look seam-
less, as has O’Connor. O’Connor said she credits her high school coach, Meredith Frank, who played at Northwestern, for preparing her for the quickness and intensity of the college game.
Both players also said they have enjoyed 
learning new things from coaches and older players since joining the team, something 
that has helped them adjust to the program and feel more comfortable.
“I used to be a crease player in high 
school and now I play up top, which is com-
pletely different,” O’Connor said, “but it just shows me I have another side to me that I never knew.”
That’s what college is all about, for any student — whether 
it’s in the classroom or on the field. Learning about yourself, testing your limits. 
“I’m always just striving to be better, and I always expect 
the most out of myself,” Pirreca said. “No matter what, I’m 
never gonna be satisfied with how I’m doing, but as a team…
I’m pretty happy with where we are right now in the season.”UF lacrosse freshmen devoting extra time to improve
FOOTBALL,  from pg 14Lane embraces pants stainSWIMMING
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
After seeing the UF women’s swimming 
and diving team finish ninth at the NCAA Championships last week, the men now have their chance to try to take home a national title.
The three-day NCAA Men’s Swimming and 
Diving Championships begin today in Iowa City, Iowa, and the No. 4 Gators will look to make another deep run.
Florida’s men’s squad is coming off a third-
place team finish at the 2014 national meet 
— the highest UF has finished under coach 
Gregg Troy. The Gators have never finished 
below ninth place at the national meet since Troy took over the program in the 1999-2000 season.
And with 15 athletes (14 swimmers, one 
diver) competing in 14 individual events and all five relays, Florida has a chance to finish near the top of the leaderboards.
“Our group is very experienced and deep,” 
Troy said in a release. “We are looking for-ward to a great competition this week.”
That competition comes from a field that 
has eight other teams with at least 10 athletes competing, highlighted by top-ranked Texas (20) and No. 2 California (16).
Georgia (12) and Auburn (10) are the only 
Southeastern Conference schools other than Florida with a double-digit athlete total at the NCAA Championship.
Preliminary heats begin at noon each day, 
with finals following at 8 p.m.UF men open NCAAs todayLACROSSEPirreca
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015
Live longer.
Drive Sober.By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Coming off a tough series win on the road against 
No. 5 Alabama, No. 3 Florida and coach Tim Walton 
have a lot to smile about.
Walton’s pitchers seemed to get back on track as 
they allowed just six runs through the three games in Tuscaloosa after surrendering 27 to LSU the weekend before.
But Walton knows one aspect of his 
team needs to improve as Southeastern Conference play continues — the of-fense.
“Right now we’re in a little bit of a lull offen-
sively,” he said. “I think we’re swinging the bat just OK.”
Florida batters scored a total of six runs and com-
piled a measly .216 batting average against Crimson 
Tide pitching.
Walton, who coaches third base when the Gators 
are hitting, sees it all firsthand. Standing about 60 
feet away, he motivates each hitter with a few sim-ple claps and a head nod.
He knows hitting is all about your mindset.“I want our hitters to go up there with confidence 
and not to fear failure,” he said, “not to fear getting out and be resilient. Be able to bounce back after 
one strike to another, from one at-bat to another, 
from one game to another.”
If the Gators want to make another run at a na-
tional championship, they know they’re going to have to hit.
Florida’s offense currently ranks among the mid-
dle of the pack in most statistical categories in the SEC.
The team’s .304 batting average ranks ninth out of the 13 teams in the SEC.
None of UF’s regular starters is hitting over .400. 
Junior Kelsey Stewart, who went 4-for-10 over the weekend, is closest to that mark with a .398 aver-age.
To put that in perspective, six other SEC teams 
have at least one hitter slashing above .400. Two lineups – No. 8 Auburn and No. 7 Georgia – both feature four hitters above .400.
But Walton realizes he doesn’t have 
an offense-heavy team, and he prefers 
a squad with lights-out pitching and a 
stout defense behind his pitchers.
“I’m starting the team that plays 
the best defense and pitches the best,” 
Walton said. “With that being said, it doesn’t sur-prise me because I am starting a pitching and defen-sive team first.”
The Gators’ pitching has carried them all season. 
Their 1.42 ERA is second best in the SEC, and their 
268 strikeouts leads the conference.
But as the season progresses, Walton is looking 
to some of his more established hitters to step it up 
offensively and do a better job of being tougher outs to opposing pitchers.
“The Kirsti Merritts, the Lauren Haegers, the Bai-
ley Castros, the Taylore Fullers, the Taylor Schwarz-es, the Katie Medinas, the Aubree Munros, the Janell Wheatons,” Walton said. “Those right-handed bat-
ters, I need them to somehow build off each other 
and change up scouting reports and not be able to be pitched to the same.”Walton wants to see increased production from batters
SOFTBALL
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF softball coach Tim Walton watches on from the third-base 
line during Florida’s 7-1 win against Kansas on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
“I want our hitters to go up there with confidence 
and not to fear failure.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach