We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 62 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
UF soccer still improving
The Gators continue NCAA T ournament 
action Friday, pg. 13
Teaming up to prevent oﬀ  -campus robberies
UPD and GPD are on the case, pg. 3
Two degrees of separation and staying safe
Wear your helmet, pg. 6Giving Thanks
Students said “thank you” to donors, pg. 8
By Alexandra Fernandez 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
afernandez@alligator.org, 
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Sumi Helal thinks UF faculty 
needs to be paid more.
Helal, the UF United Fac-
ulty of Florida chief negotia-
tor, presented issues UF fac-ulty have with their salaries to Special Magistrate Tom Young 
on Wednesday morning. Pro-
fessors wearing blue buttons that read “UF works because we do” nodded their heads and hummed in agreement.
UFF and UF’s board of trust-
ees reached an impasse over salary raises in August. They met Wednesday to present each 
side of the argument to Young, 
who will give a recommenda-tion within 15 days on how to 
proceed.
Helal, a UF professor of 
computer and information sci-
ence and engineering, said UFF took issue with the board’s sal-
ary proposal, which stated a 
2.5 percent merit pay increase will be effective Jan. 1. He said raises are traditionally effective 
at the beginning of a faculty 
member’s appointment.
He also said UF’s promotion 
raises are among the lowest in the State University System 
of Florida. Helal projected a chart that showed a 9 percent 
average promotion raise for UF 
professors compared to Florida 
State University’s 15 percent and other Florida universities’.
“We have to change this,” 
he said. “This picture has re-
ceived a blind eye and a deaf 
ear.”
Helal said there needs to be 
a cost-of-living adjustment to 
salaries to help faculty cope 
with a 9 percent inflation rate in Florida.
“You can’t expect to be a top 
10 and preeminent school yet 
not behave like it,” he said.  
Candi Churchill, UFF’s ser-
vice unit director, said UF has 
the money to pay its faculty 
more and cited UF’s $148 mil-
lion in unrestricted assets in 2014.
She also cited UF President 
Kent Fuchs’ State of the Univer-
sity address, in which he said 
$19 million was given to UF by legislatures to meet perfor-mance goals.
Attorney Michael Matti-
more of Allen Norton & Blue, P.A. spoke on behalf of the UF board. He said UF’s income is limited.
The board was sticking to its 
proposal of a 2.5 percent merit pay increase effective Jan. 1, he said.
“There’s not this huge pot 
of hundreds of millions of dol-lars,” Mattimore said. “This is tight, this is very tight.”
UF is competitive with wag-
es, but he said sources of in-come are limited.
“We are better than compet-
itive,” he said. “We’re at the 
top.”
Mattimore said while UF has 
faculty who are at the top of 
their field, not all are advanc-
ing their fields. At this, profes-
sors in the audience expressed surprise.
UF shouldn’t adopt a start-
ing salary for professors, he said. UF needs to be able to 
adjust salaries to compete for 
professors.
Heather Ray, a UF physics 
associate professor, said the board was presenting biased and skewed data.
The board was comparing 
UF to other Florida institu-tions, not the institutions UF will compete with to become a top 10 university, she said. She thinks UF needs to give profes-
sors more than a 2.5 percent 
increase.
“They are completely ig-
noring the big elephant in the 
room,” she said.  F aculty ask for salary raises
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Police say Wayne Baer robbed his 
grandmother.
Baer, 23, was already in jail after he re-
portedly stole a $20 Gator ﬂ  eece blanket 
from Walmart on Nov. 12. But Tuesday, police added 48 charges to his record after they said he pawned about $2,100 of his 
75-year-old grandmother’s property, ac-cording to a police report.
His grandmother, who wished to re-
main anonymous, said Baer moved in with 
her on Sept. 23, even after Baer’s siblings warned her.
“They all said ‘Don’t take him in, Grand-
ma’ and I said ‘Look, he’s my baby,’” she said.
Five days after he moved in, Baer made 
his ﬁ  rst sale — a 14-karat gold necklace for $70 at Midtown Jewelry and Loan, accord-ing to the report.Every couple of days, 
Baer sold his grandmoth-er’s tools, jewelry and ﬁ  rearms. But the activity went unnoticed until his 
grandmother went out of town on Oct. 17 to take care of Baer’s father, whose brain was dam-
aged in a 2014 motorcycle accident.
While she was gone, Baer took a check-
book from her ofﬁ  ce. He wrote himself a check for $200 and tried to withdraw mon-ey from a closed bank account, according to the report.
His grandmother said she knew some-
thing was wrong when the bank called her, 
but she questioned why anyone would try 
to cash a check that said “Closed account, do not use” on the front.
“It was very clearly stated,” she said. 
“He’s a stupid thief.”
Her brother soon changed her home’s  Police arrest man for stealing from grandmother
SEE THEFT,  PAGE 4John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
SEE DEEZ CRAFTS
Marisa Panzarella, a 22-year-old UF advertising junior, glues CD 
shards to a gardening pot at a CREATE club meeting on Wednesday in McCarty A. Panzarella said she didn’t know what she wanted to make, but she showed up to have fun. Since Thanksgiving is next week, the event also included a potluck of apple pie, honey straws, cookies, and macaroni and cheese.
Baer
Increase not well received
“You can’t expect to be a top 
10 and preeminent school yet 
not behave like it.”
Sumi Helal
UF United Faculty 
of Florida chief negotiatorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gators for UNICEF Squat 
Challenge
While Toilet Day may seem like a joke, there are actually about 2.4 billion people around the world 
(one in three) who do not have 
access to sanitary facilities. It is also one of the most lacking of the United Nations’ millennium-development goals. The goal is to raise awareness of this issue by hosting an event on Thursday at 12:35 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas where Gators for 
UNICEF will attempt to break the 
record for most people squatting in one place. The current record is 118 people, and they hope to chomp that with more than 150 people in attendance. Free pizza will be provided, and the event will only take 10 minutes. For more information, visit facebook.
com/events/1046268918719333.
RUB Entertainment presents: 
Local Bands Showcase
Reitz Union Board Entertainment will host its first Local Bands Showcase on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The show will feature 
local bands from Gainesville, in-
cluding Insignificant Other and Pyramid and Poblano.“Celebrating ‘The Originator’: 
The Bo Diddley Legacy”Rock ‘n’ roll legend Bo Diddley’s 
only appearance on “The Ed 
Sullivan Show” was Nov. 20, 1955, and Friday marks the 60th anniversary of his perfor-mance. The George A. Smathers Libraries are commemorating the anniversary with an event, “Celebrating ‘The Originator’: The Bo Diddley Legacy,” Friday 
at noon in the Scott Nygren 
Scholars Studio (Room 212) in Library West. The celebration will feature a short presentation on the influence of Bo Diddley on rock ‘n’ roll history by David E. Carlson, the executive direc-tor of the UF Center of Media Innovation and Research. The 
performance clip will be shown, 
and his recorded music will be playing. A companion exhibit in the cases outside Room 212 will highlight Diddley’s legacy and his appearance on campus in the Spring of 2003. It is free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
GatorNights: “Don’t Lose Your 
Zen”GatorNights will host a “Don’t Lose Your Zen” event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. The event will fea-ture massage chairs, group fit-ness classes and comedian Joe Mande sponsored by Reitz Union Board Entertainment. The event will also feature showings of the 
movie “Straight Outta Compton” 
at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest to 
the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 62
HIGH  77° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
CRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
After a recent surge in armed rob-
beries, University Police will tempo-
rarily broaden its patrol areas to in-clude off-campus neighborhoods.  
Traditionally, University Police 
and Gainesville Police have kept separate jurisdictions, with UPD han-dling on-campus crime and GPD cov-ering the city. But with the increase in robberies occurring away from UF, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said during a press con-ference Wednesday his department can’t do it alone.
“With this spreading out, we need 
some extra help,” Tobias said.
The department’s expansion will 
include neighborhoods north of Mid-town and east of Sorority Row.
Reports of armed robberies in the 
city have increased since last year, said Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias, GPD spokes-man, in a press conference Wednes-
day afternoon. He said 155 armed 
robberies were reported to GPD last year. So far this year, 150 to 200 armed robberies have already been reported.
Along with calling on UPD for 
help, GPD also announced it would suspend in-service training programs to get those instructors on the streets. Some specialty units within the de-partment will also be reassigned to help out.
“We can’t, unfortunately, solve 
all crime in Gainesville,” Tobias said. “But we’re gonna do everything we can to reduce the opportuni-
ties that criminals have to victimize 
Gainesville residents.”
To adjust to the change in patrol 
areas, UPD will need to move around ofﬁ  cer shift schedules, said Maj. Brad Barber, UPD spokesman.
“We will be looking, organiza-
tionally, into how we will work these patrols,” Barber said. “We will not, 
however, compromise our responsi-
bility for campus safety.”
Camila Guillen, 22, said relocating 
resources is good idea because she thinks campus is generally safer and more students live off-campus.
“I feel like if the attacks are hap-
pening off campus, it would be good to patrol that area more,” the journal-
ism senior said.
UF biology senior Gebreyes Kassu 
said he only agrees with the plan if 
it’s temporary because the new pa-trols might take away from UPD’s job on campus. 
“But realistically, I think it doesn’t 
matter,” the 25-year-old said, “‘cause in the end we always get the last 
email saying, ‘Suspects not found.’”   Teaming up to prevent 
oﬀ  -campus robberiesDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
WHAT’S YOUR BEEF?
Heather Swain (left), a 
23-year-old UF animal scienc-es junior, explains the benefits of beef to Pedro Rodriguez, an 18-year-old biomedical engi-neering freshman, on Turling-ton Plaza on Wednesday. The Gator Collegiate Cattlewomen 
brought a chest labeled “Beef 
And” that was filled with prod-ucts made by the beef indus-try, such as soccer balls. “You can make 18 soccer balls out of one cowhide, ” Swain said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
locks, but Baer smashed his grandmoth-
er’s window the same day. He broke into 
her locked filing cabinet and stole $500 in 
coins and cash, along with a Smith and Wesson Model 36 revolver from her night stand, according to the report.He sold the revolver for $260 at 
Gainesville Pawn the same day.
It was his 23rd sale and his last.Police arrested Baer on 24 charges of 
fraud, 23 charges for dealing in stolen 
property and one charge for exploitation 
of an elderly person. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $486,000 bond.
He had made more than $2,100 in total, 
leaving his thumb print each time, accord-ing to the report.
His grandmother bought back almost 
everything for $1,481, but her dearest pos-session was already gone.
“He sold a necklace that was given to 
me by my other son before he died,” she said. “When I got to the pawn shop, the 30 
days was up and they sold it. ”
She said while she still cares for him, he 
is no longer welcome in her home.
“My love for him hasn’t changed,” she 
said. “But I do hope that he gets the help 
that he needs now.”
THEFT,  from pg 1He made 23 sales with his grandmother’s belongings LAW SCHOOL
By Gabrielle Newman
Contributing Alligator Writer
The Charleston School of Law intro-
duced a new program allowing Spring admissions and hopes UF students take 
notice. 
The program would allow December 
graduates to apply and attend law school 
a month after graduation. With UF in the 
top 25 colleges represented in applications 
to the law school, according to Charleston School of Law spokesman Andy Brack, the school admissions hopes the chance to start immediately instead of waiting for 
Fall is appealing. 
“We’ve been in Charleston for 10 
years, but this is the first time we’ve of-
fered January admission and I believe it’s 
the first time it’s been done in South Caro-
lina,” Brack said.
Brack said there was no cost to imple-
ment the program, which was introduced by the new president and managing direc-
tor, J. Edward Bell III. 
UF used to have a similar program that 
allowed students to begin school in the Spring and Summer until 2008, said Lau-
ra Rosenbury, the dean of the College of 
Law. However, she said they changed to 
having one date in Fall because it is in line with the top 100 law schools and gives graduates a chance to have internship and work experience over the summer. 
“We thought it would be beneficial 
for all UF students to start at same time,” Rosenbury said.
“We’re only looking forward in order 
to enhance the student experience.” 
John Rodstrom, 23, is now attending 
Stetson University College of Law after 
graduating from UF in Spring 2014. He 
said he doesn’t see the benefit of being able to start law school early.
“I think having a break even just in 
summer is kind of nice because I will be 
spending seven years in school,” Rod-
strom said.Charleston Law calls on UF
IT WAS UNANIMOUS.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
The UF Supreme Court of the Student Body 
ruled unanimously Wednesday that the ability 
of some members of the executive committee to vote for nominees twice is unconstitutional.
Prior to the ruling, three members of the 
executive committee who are also members of the Senate — the Senate president, Senate pro-tempore and the Budget and Appropriations chairperson — were part of the nomination process for executive branch positions, such as agency heads and cabinet directors.
Those three members were then allowed 
to vote a second time as Senate members on whether to approve a nominee for the position.
Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines submitted a petition Sept. 18 regarding the constitutionality of the current executive committee’s double voting.
The petition stated that in recent years, the 
executive committee has had powers not allot-ted in the constitution, such as the selection of the executive cabinet, adviser and agency heads.
The petition was also created in response 
to the gridlock in Senate over summer, when 
there was a 105-day gap between agency head 
nominations by the executive committee.
Padron-Rasines vetoed 
reforms to the 500 codes of the Student Body Statutes in August due to a clause allowing the three members of the UF Student Senate to vote twice for members ap-
pointed by the executive 
branch: once during the 
nomination process and 
once during the Senate approval process. This violates the separation of powers, according to the petition.
Padron-Rasines said there is a clear separa-
tion of powers in the UF constitution and that the three members having two votes violates 
that separation.
“I’m happy with the way the Supreme 
Court ruled,” said Padron-Rasines. “I’m glad 
that tonight the Supreme Court chose to stand 
by the constitution.”UF Supreme Court: double 
voting is unconstitutional
Padron-Rasines
Laura Palomino, a 20-year-old UF marine science junior, catches 
kisses from her dog Kaiser, a 9-year-old German shepherd, on the Plaza of the Americas Wednesday. Palomino rescued Kaiser from a shelter in Miami six years ago, and he never walks more than a foot away from her. Whenever she doesn’t have classes, Palomino takes Kaiser to the Plaza to people watch and eat Krishna food.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Megan Hammerling, a 21-year-old UF criminology and anthropology senior, shakes the paw of her rescue 
puppy Hershey on Turlington Plaza Wednesday. The 7-month-old hound mix was found on the side of the road at 8 weeks old. Now, Hammerling said she is training Hershey to become a therapy dog. 
“I think having a break even just in 
summer is kind of nice because I will 
be spending seven years in school.” 
John Rodstrom
UF alumnus
FREEING FIDOTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
PHOTOS WILL HANG IN 
GRINTER HALL.
By Jennifer Jenkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
Miguel Cardona snapped an 
award-winning photo when he 
asked for directions in Sayulita, 
Mexico.
The UF architecture senior 
studied abroad in Mexico last 
summer. This week, his ﬁ  rst-place photograph of a local woman hanging in her woven hammock 
is featured in Grinter Hall as part 
of International Education Week, a federal holiday started 15 years ago by the U.S. State Department 
and Department of Education.
The week’s exhibits feature 
photos from both students and 
faculty, said UF International Center Outreach and Communica-
tions Coordinator Mabel Cardec. 
Those whose photos were se-lected had their photos printed, framed and hung on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor 
of Grinter Hall.
Cardona, 23, said he took the 
photo, titled “Passing Time in Sa-yulitas,” quickly.
“It looked like she belonged 
in that space, with how her dress matches the border of the window and she is sitting in the middle of 
the hammock,” he said.
UF sociology professor Ste-
phen Perz, who received the 
International Education Award from the UF International Center 
this week, said UF has a proven 
track record for providing quality study abroad opportunities.
“Traveling to other countries 
of course provides a new perspec-tive on one’s home country,” Perz said, “and interacting with people from many countries has a similar effect, no matter where you are at 
the moment.”UF celebrates study abroad programs with photo gallery
Courtesy to the Alligator
Miguel Cardona, a 23-year-old UF architecture senior, won ﬁ  rst place in the UF International Center’s 
2015 Global Culture Photo contest with this photo of a woman in Sa yulita, Mexico.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF group plans to add a sweet treat when 
it serves up a meatless Thanksgiving on Friday.
The UF Student Animal Alliance will host 
its second Vegan Thanksgiving Feast at noon. 
The group will offer tofurky, a vegan turkey 
substitute made from soybeans, and traditional 
Thanksgiving sides to students walking on the Plaza of the Americas.  
This year, the alliance will add 200 choco-
late chip and pumpkin cookies to the menu of vegan mashed potatoes, gravy and stufﬁ  ng.  
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals 
will donate ﬁ  ve tofurky packages and $100 for the sides and desserts, said Manny Rutinel, the 
group’s vice president.
“This (feast) shows people that vegan food 
is absolutely delicious,” the 20-year-old UF mi-crobiology senior said. “Hopefully, people feel 
how welcoming vegans are and how beneﬁ  cial it is to be vegan.”
The group expects about 300 people to 
participate. Christina Bicknell, Student Animal Alliance president, said the event serves to en-courage veganism.
“I hope people try our food and take a stab 
at being vegan,” said Bicknell, a 21-year-old UF public relations senior who has been a vegan for two years. “I hope this opens people’s eyes.”
UF behavioral and cognitive neuroscience 
sophomore Leila Shaﬁ  q said she’ll attend the event. The 19-year-old vegetarian said she tried to be vegan, but gave up after a week because it was hard.
“I want to see if you can make Thanksgiv-
ing, which is mostly an animal-based holiday, vegan,” she said.UF group adding cookies 
to its vegan Thanksgiving SANTA FE
 By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Senate moved 
forward with several bills Wednesday, 
which included amendments to court ap-
pearance rules and Senate meeting atten-
dance requirements.
Senate voted 19-10 to approve a bill that 
amended the Student Body constitution to 
punish senators who refuse to appear be-
fore the Student Body Supreme Court if subpoenaed.
At-large or academic senators and lead-
ership team members who refuse will be 
removed from their positions. If a club 
member refuses, Santa Fe Student Govern-ment will suspend club funds until the club member appears before the court.The bill, created by Student Body Presi-
dent Conor Flynn, struck controversy with some chamber members.
Sen. Cody Brittain called the bill “funda-
mentally ﬂ  awed,” and raised issue with the different punishments for academic and at-large senators compared to club members.
Sen. Benjamin Myers, who ﬁ  led the bill, 
said the bill’s purpose is to reinforce rules 
because “there’s got to be a little punish-
ment if you don’t show up.”
Senate also voted 33-2 to approve a bill 
by Sen. Karran Doekhi to amend atten-
dance requirements for academic, at-large 
and club senators.
The bill lowered attendance require-
ments for the three from 85 percent to 75 percent of Senate meetings. In the Spring, 
Senate approved bills raising requirements 
from 75 percent to 85 percent. Court appearance bill approved The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnIt would be really 
great if Chick-ﬁ  l-A 
wasn’t a center of 
controversy
One would be very hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd a UF student or 
Gainesville resident who doesn’t love Chick-ﬁ  l-A. The juicy, delicious chicken always complemented by a duo of dill pickle chips, the diverse and ﬂ  avorful sauces, the consistently crunchy and impeccably salted fries, 
the sweetness and perfect consistency of the strawberry milk-shakes… there’s just so much to love. In a perfect world, we could spend this entire editorial extolling Chick-ﬁ  l-A’s bountiful virtues.
But we don’t live in that world. For better or for worse, ours is 
a world where Chick-ﬁ  l-A, the undisputed king of quality in the fast-food game, ﬁ  nds itself embroiled in social debates time and time again. The summer of 2012 was marked by controversy for the company, when the public became aware of multi-billion-
aire CEO Dan T. Cathy’s donations to organizations hostile to 
LGBTQ+ causes, such as the Family Research Counsel and the Marriage and Family Foundation. For the record, as detestable as Cathy’s homophobia is, he has the right to spend his proﬁ  ts in any legal manner he sees ﬁ  t. Likewise, people have the right to protest and voice their disapproval in a reasonable manner.
But today’s editorial isn’t about the summer of 2012, or even 
Cathy’s further homophobic misadventures. As reported by Glenn Beck’s (ugh) independent media network TheBlaze and 
Complex, a Texas Chick-ﬁ  l-A gave its employees T-shirts that say  
“Go Blue or Go Home” and “Back the Blue.” As reported by The-Blaze, Eli Advincula, the manager for the location, said the shirts are meant to “show our support for Police Lives Matter.”
Sigh — no shit. Of course police lives matter because all lives 
matter. It just so happens that time and again, it has been shown that black lives are valued that much less in this country, espe-cially when it comes to law enforcement. Misgivings about activ-ists operating under the Black Lives Matter banner aside — be on 
the lookout for an editorial on the stupidity that was the march in 
a Dartmouth library — the central thesis behind the initial mes-sage rings true. The BLM phrase would never have had to come about if black people (especially those in low-income and crime-ridden areas) weren’t killed by police ofﬁ  cers at disproportionate rates or were afforded the same educational or job opportunities as those in more ideal living situations.
The hashtags (ugh) #alllivesmatter and #policelivesmatters 
shouldn’t exist — anyone with a half-functioning moral com-
pass has already discerned that those things are true. The people 
who propagate these phrases are acting in opposition to BLM, as though the very concept itself poses a grave threat to their lives and understandings of the world around them. Why? All the BLM hashtag (UGH) is trying to communicate is black lives are just as valuable and deserve to be regarded with the same respects as those afforded to other Americans or law enforcement ofﬁ  cials. It should be self-evident that supporting the notion of BLM does not mean taking away from the intrinsic value of others, but ap-
parently that was lost on Eli Advincula.
Misguided or not, it is a shame Advincula feels compelled 
to once more taint the simple pleasures of Chick-ﬁ  l-A with divi-
sive rhetoric. We’ll always love Chick-ﬁ  l-A, but it’s a shame that Chick-ﬁ  l-A may not love its customers as we love it.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
I love the phrase “Every Gator Matters.”  
It expresses the value of every member of the Gator family and our care for one 
another.
That phrase took on special signifi-
cance in July, when I received an email from 
UF Professor Maria Coady inviting me to a 
small ceremony where she was to receive her 
son’s posthumous UF bachelor’s degree.  I was unable to attend, but we subsequently met and I learned about her son Thomas and her work on behalf of all Gators. 
I asked professor Coady if she would share her 
thoughts for this column. 
This is her response:“Frigyes Karinthy, a Hungarian philosopher, de-
scribed a theory that has loosely become known as ‘six degrees of separation’ in 1929. Karinthy and his colleagues argued that using no more than five indi-viduals, one of whom is a personal acquaintance, any individual could be contacted using only a network of 
personal acquaintances.
Remember — that was in 1929.  Now, some 85 years 
later in our world of instant, Internet communication 
and social networks, our degrees of separation are 
more likely only two.
Close connections are especially true at UF. Last 
December, my son Thomas, a UF biology senior, died 
suddenly in a tragic motorcycle accident, along with another UF student who was his passenger. 
Thomas was sharp, witty, compassionate, and care-
ful, but his care as a rider was not enough to sustain him or his passenger from the impact of a pickup truck in a busy Gainesville intersection. 
Words cannot describe the intense loss that I feel 
every day, and it would be heart-wrenching to see an-other member of our UF community experi-ence a similar tragedy.
Thomas’ death has brought forth many 
people in our UF community who recount unsolicited stories of scooter or motorcycle angst. Some are tragic, like my son and his passenger’s, with devastating outcomes; oth-
ers tell stories of unsafe riding, such as riding 
without helmets, eye protection, or closed-toe shoes.
Given our two degrees of separation, it’s likely that 
we all know someone who rides a scooter or motor-
cycle, but who is not riding safely.  
Let’s change that. Tap a friend’s shoulder and let her 
know how important safe riding is to you and in our 
UF community.
This month, we are launching a UF Scooter and 
Motorcycle Safety Campaign.  We will be giving away safe-riding gear this Saturday beginning two hours be-fore the FAU football game at Gate 3 of the Stephen O’Connell Center. We hope to see you there! We will 
also release a safe riding film that will go online today 
at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu.
So, #gatorsgearup.  Don a helmet every time you 
ride, wear clear riding glasses at nighttime, always 
wear bright, reflective riding gear so that motor vehicle 
drivers can see you. Let’s close in on our two degrees of separation and keep each other and our community safe.”  
I hope we will always remember to express our care 
and affection for one another while watching out for each other on the roads. As we enter the final weeks of the semester, I wish everyone the very best.
Kent Fuchs is the UF President. His column appears 
monthly. Two degrees of separation and staying safe
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Drug companies and high costs
Earlier this year, Martin 
Shkreli, the CEO of Tur-ing Pharmaceuticals, in-
creased the cost of a life-
saving HIV drug by about 
5,000 percent. The price raised from $13.50 per pill to $750 per 
pill.
But after much public criti-
cism, Shkreli changed his posi-
tion in an interview with ABC News in late September: “We’ve agreed 
to lower the price of Daraprim to a point 
that is more affordable and is able to allow the company to make a proﬁ  t, but a very small proﬁ  t. We think these changes will 
be welcomed.”
It may be fair to say the severity of 
price gouging for this particular drug is 
peculiar, but to say it is an isolated event is simply not true.
Express Scripts, a large provider for 
shipping prescription drugs for insurance 
programs, found in its most recent con-
sumer trends report that US prescription 
drug spending increased by 13.1 percent in 2014, the largest yearly increase since 2003.
Yet in 2014, wages and salaries virtu-
ally did not increase while overall prices rose between 2 and 3 percent. What could possibly account for this dramatic increase in drug prices?
Drug companies frequently attribute 
high costs to the price to pay for conduct-ing groundbreaking research and  the pro-
cess of putting their drugs on the market.
However, people in the U.S. pay any-
where from two to six times more than the 
rest of the world, according to the Interna-
tional Federation of Health Plans.
In the U.S., individual hospitals, insur-
ance groups and plans negotiate with drug 
companies, giving them very little bar-gaining power in lowering prices. This is 
a stark contrast to other countries like the 
United Kingdom, in which they have very few buyers.
It would certainly be reasonable for one 
to think the Affordable Care Act would have addressed the problem, by either initiating price controls on the pharma-
ceutical industry or developing a different method to negotiate prices.
In reality, the problem was 
entirely neglected in the reform, even though a Kaiser Tracking 
Poll revealed in August that 74 percent of respondents felt drug companies put proﬁ  ts before 
people.
Twenty-four percent of peo-
ple state they have a difﬁ  cult 
time paying for medication, 
and it’s 33 percent for people with low-
er incomes and 43 percent for people in 
“worse” health.
If one is to presume public policy ought 
to follow public opinion, well, brace your-
selves for disappointment.
It’s been posited by some that the ACA 
is a step in the right direction, but it still 
leaves intact the notion that proﬁ  t is an 
integral and necessary part of healthcare 
in the US.
Just like we have a right to vote, to go 
to a public park or enjoy various services, 
why not have the right to medical care as 
needed? Why not make it more affordable, 
accessible and inclusive?
Stefﬁ  e Woolhandler, a professor of 
public health at CUNY-Hunter College, 
thinks policy should shift to that position: 
a single payer health care system.
“And because it’s such a simple sys-
tem, like Social Security, there would be 
very low administrative expenses,” Wool-
handler said. “We would save about $400 
billion, which would allow us to afford the 
system.”
It looks especially appealing when it 
would drive down costs and cover every-
one.
According to the New York Times, 
more than half of low-wage workers who 
do not have insurance will not be able to 
be insured, even with the progress made 
by the ACA (or lack thereof).
It is long overdue that our country 
stops leaving the ﬁ  nancial burden of med-
ical help solely on individuals, especially 
when it seems as though those who need 
it the most are those who can afford it the 
least.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appear on Thursdays.
Aubrey 
Krampert
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
A frequent refrain among 
heartbroken and sexual-ly frustrated young men: “She doesn’t like me be-cause I’m a nice guy.”  
No, not really.
Straight dudes have liked 
women, it seems, for a while 
now. And they’ve written about it for just as long. Women have 
written about liking men — and 
other women — but you prob-ably didn’t ﬁ  nd too much of this on your high school reading lists or bookshelves, with the probable exception of the works of the Brontë sisters. Instead, you were probably left with John Green novels, Morrissey lyrics and the like to make sense of the romantic world.
Perhaps you’re unapologetically horny. 
That’s ﬁ  ne; Dante was and he turned out OK — after a short trip to Hell. My point is, young men have often had very little exposure to narratives where straight dudes don’t end up becoming the victims of their own romantic or sexual desires. 
I get it: Feelings suck. Virtually every-
one over the age of 13 has thought this 
once or twice; there’s nothing cis-hetero-
normative about that. But there is some-thing terribly wrong about the concept of a nice guy.
What is a nice guy? Nice guys are 
straight boys and young men who believe, because of their extraordinarily good na-ture, they are unattractive to the opposite sex. I’m sure spending any amount of time 
in high school made you, our readers, 
well-acquainted with the term.    
No one thinks they’re a shithole: That’s 
not human nature, and everyone is the hero in their personal narrative. 
I did know a guy, however, who didn’t 
text a girl for three days, watched her nearly cry and then turned to his friend and said, “Watch. I’ll get her back tomor-
row.” He’s unique, really. But his misog-
yny isn’t.         
So why do people believe in the con-
cept of a nice guy? 
Admittedly, it may be because some 
men are quite nice. But, as previously il-lustrated, some men are the walking, talk-ing equivalents to used condoms. I’d like to think I’m closer to the former, but every 
day I discover little things about my own 
internalized misogyny.  
It’s not as if “nice guys” don’t under-stand a bit of this. 
Everyone makes mistakes. 
Life is a growing process. But nice guys believe if they opens doors enough, compliment 
women enough, listen to these 
women’s thoughts enough, they’ll have proven themselves to be nice. And thus, they’ll “de-serve” a woman.  
That is a very frightening 
thought: that a woman must be 
interested in a man’s advances so long as he fulﬁ  lls certain conditions. To suggest 
so would be to suggest a woman shouldn’t 
have the right to choose her romantic partners. 
Because after all, nice girls only date 
assholes, anyway. Subtly manipulating a woman’s life choices isn’t what I would call nice. This is the issue with buying into the idea of the nice guy, as it paints embedded misogyny as genuine affection 
and care.
Now, I personally believe many men 
who call themselves “nice guys” don’t ex-
actly understand what it is they’re doing. You, the reader, may strongly disagree or point out that it ultimately doesn’t matter. I would agree with that second point, but I will be the ﬁ  rst to admit at one time in my life, I referred to myself as a nice guy. 
In the beginning of the column, I railed 
against moody young boys who took their romantic ideas from John Green novels and overly sensitive British post-punk and who thought themselves the victims of their own emotions, believing that engag-ing in supposedly chivalric behaviors like opening doors for women was all it took to be deemed a suitable partner. Despite 
my criticisms, I might as well have just 
given the paper my high school portrait and called that the article.       
I’d like to think I’ve come a long way. 
But this is what is most difﬁ  cult about the idea of the nice guy and sexism as a wider concept. People we may consider to be genuinely nice may not completely hold nice ideas. We ourselves might not hold 
nice ideas.    
But we can challenge that. We can 
change. We can recognize if someone 
isn’t interested in us, there might be a le-gitimate reason beyond being seemingly cursed to celibacy.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.   Why Nice Guys Aren’t That Nice        Column
Neel 
Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
Royce Abela / Alligator 
Shannen Mitchell (left), a 22-year-old UF English senior, and Dana Mendelson, a 21-year-old UF sociology senior, Gator Chomp with Alberta at Grateful Gator Day on 
Wednesday. Students took pictures with the UF mascots and posted them to social media to thank UF donors.
Giving Thanks
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Alayna Earnster (left), a 21-year-old UF communication sciences and disorders junior, collects her piz-za voucher from Tino Mateo, a 19-year-old UF health science freshman, on the Plaza of the Americas during the Grateful Gator Day event on Wednesday. “The university wouldn’t be what it is without (alumni donations), ” Earnster said.It was the week before Thanksgiving, but several hundred UF students 
gave thanks Wednesday morning during the first-ever Grateful Gator Day.
Students thanked about 30,000 UF donors on the Plaza of the Americas 
by writing about 1,000 handwritten orange cards, video-taping their Gator Chomps and posing for photos with a giant, polka-dotted “THANKS.” The event served to make students aware of how much money people donate to the university, said Kevin Marfiak, a 23-year-old UF biology senior and Cicerone who helped plan the event.
BELOW:
Kevin Marfiak, a 23-year-old UF biology senior, lies with Alberta next to a “THANKS” sign he helped create for Grateful Gator Day. Marfiak, who helped plan the event, said he had been waiting to have his moment with Alberta since he was 19. “She’s looking lovely today, ” he said.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Not going to the football game? 
No worries. There’s a lot to do this weekend in Gainesville. See the list on page 11.‘Their imagination can run away’
Former UF professor to talk vintage toys at Matheson Museum, pg. 12THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
The band The Supervillains 
is returning to Gainesville and 
bringing along the wild live show it is best known for.
Much like Blink-182’s “The 
Mark, Tom and Travis Show,” where the band’s constant banter and jokes turn the set into a hi-larious and entertaining time, The Supervillains have become known for their crazy, uncandid shows.
“That’s exactly what it is,” said 
drummer and co-vocalist Dominic Maresco, who goes by his stage 
name Dom during performances. 
“It’s the Skart and Dom show, you know, the Dom and Skart show, whichever way you want to put it.”
The Orlando-based band has 
grown into something much big-ger than just a ska band. Pat Lav-ery, owner of Glory Days Pres-
ents, wrote in an email that Glory 
Days has been bringing the band to Gainesville for about 12 years. It’s a party band that crosses genres from reggae to punk rock, he said.
“They opened for the Less 
Than Jake Wake N Bake weekend for the second time this year, and 
we are happy to have them back 
at High Dive headlining,” Lavery said.
This “awesome college town” 
is always one of the band’s fa-vorite stops, Dom said. The band played at the venue before it was High Dive and even before its members were a national act.
“Our bass player actually went 
to U of F, so you know, we’ve got a little history there in the town,” Dom said. “But we’ve been going there for, you know, close to 15 years playing to the good folks in Gainesville.”
Inﬂ  uenced by many acts, 
they’ve picked up some “different 
things from different bands.” One 
of those bands is “Gainesville he-roes” Less Than Jake, Dom said.
“Some stuff just rubs off, you 
know,” he said.
The drummer doesn’t believe 
people want to go to shows just to listen to a CD. For Dom, a good live show is important, so shows 
get a little crazy — and people act 
up.
At a The Supervillains show, 
the people who really act up can be presented with unique oppor-tunities. During past shows, fans have been invited onstage to per-form stunts to win merchandise, Lavery said.
“Yeah there’s been a couple of 
those, man, there’s been a couple of those,” Dom said.
Dom recalled the incidents.“It’s terrible to even say one 
was a kick to the junk onstage for a free shirt,” Dom said.
And another: “We talked a 
crowd member into coming up and having our merch guy spit in his mouth.”
It’s all in good fun, he said.When the crowd gets really 
wild, there’s always one or two people who try to disrupt the set while they’re playing. The band 
members like to pick on the peo-
ple who like to pick on them dur-ing the set.Although they’re more than 
willing to get a little crazy with their live show, the members take their music very seriously, and Dom said he believes the band 
has progressed into much more 
than a typical ska band over the years.  
“I don’t wanna be a cookie-
cutter band,” he said. “I don’t wanna be the guys that play the same 15 tunes every night.”
For Dom and his short atten-
tion span, frequent tempo chang-
es keep the music fresh and fun 
for the band and its fans.
“We’ve progressed over the 
years into something weird and not normal, you know what I mean? So I’m excited to be out-side of what everybody else is do-ing,” Dom said. “I like to do what we want to do.”
The band does not make a re-
cord with anything in mind other 
than writing the music it wants 
to. They also said they don’t feel compelled to stay within the con-ﬁ  nes of any particular genre.
Dom attributes the band’s pop-
ularity to its originality.
When the band’s record deal 
was up with Law Records, it moved its albums to its own la-
bel, Rah Rah Rah Records. The 
band Abandon the Midwest is also signed to the label and will be performing at Friday’s show.
Dom said the label is always 
looking to bring in new acts, es-pecially those ready to go and willing to work, qualities he no-ticed in Abandon the Midwest.
He is ready to perform in 
Gainesville again.
“Very appreciative of all the 
people we have up there and we’re excited for the show and 
you know we’re always excited to 
be up there in Gainesville,” Dom said. “You know we’re always ap-preciative of the Gainesville green and all that good stuff man.”
The band will perform Friday 
at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 8:30 p.m. 
Tickets are available for $10 on 
ticketﬂ  y.com or $13 at the show.Reggae band The Supervillains to play, banter at High Dive
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Supervillans, an Orlando-based band, crosses genres from reggae to punk rock. It has been playing in Gainesville for about 15 
years and will be coming back Friday to perform at the High Dive at 8:30 p.m.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
HOT NEW MUSIC RELEASES ff the Record
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Justin Bieber
“Purpose” - Nov. 13Justin Bieber’s long-awaited album “Pur-
pose” was ﬁ  nally released Friday. It’s been three years since his last album, and on “Pur-
pose,” you can see how much the Biebs has 
matured. Bieber gained a lot of attention out-side his normal demographic when he was featured with Jack Ü, a duo formed by Skrillex 
and Diplo, on their single “Where Are Ü Now” 
in April. In late August, “What Do You Mean” 
was released and became Bieber’s ﬁ  rst No. 1 
Billboard Hot 100 Single. 
“Purpose” has a lot of different sounds 
ranging from electronic dance music to acous-tic, pop and hip-hop. The album has 18 songs and features Ed Sheeran, Halsey, Big Sean, Nas and Travi$ Scott, who also collaborated with Bieber on “Maria I’m Drunk,” a song from Scott’s newest album. Personally, I never un-
derstood all the hate Justin Bieber received, 
but it has played out. 
Don’t write off “Purpose” just because it’s a Justin Bieber album. You’ll like it no matter your preferred genre — and that’s coming from a huge hip-hop fan.
Jeezy“Church in These Streets” — Nov. 13Jeezy dropped his eighth studio album, 
“Church in These Streets,” on Friday. Jeezy has thrived in the game for more than 14 years, and he continues to kill it. “Church in These Streets” goes pretty hard and will have you ready to drop out of school and start a trap house. The Snowman made a quality album with only two other features. “Church in These Streets” didn’t completely blow me away, but Jeezy is one of the all-time greatest,  so this 
album is deﬁ  nitely worth listening to.
Ty Dolla $ign
“Free TC” — Nov. 13After announcing this album back in Feb-
ruary 2014 and experiencing numerous push-backs, Ty Dolla $ign’s debut album, “Free TC,” was released Friday. It feels like Ty Dolla $ign has been in the game for a minute despite be-
ing named an XXL Freshman in 2014. He’s re-leased a few mixtapes and an extended play 
in the last year or so, but it’s about time we got a full project from the Taylor Gang rapper. “Free TC” comes with 16 songs and features from a ton of artists such as Kendrick Lamar, E-40, Trey Songz, Kanye West, Future, Rae Sremmurd, YG, R. Kelly and more. “Free TC” 
has some chill songs as well as some bangers. 
Check it out.
Logic“The Incredible True Story” — Nov. 13“The Incredible True Story” is Logic’s  
sophomore album. The 25-year-old rapper was deﬁ  nitely creative on this project. The album is written as a story with skits after the songs 
that open your imagination as you listen. The 
story takes place in the year 2115 and follows two guys listening to some “classic” rap mu-sic, “The Incredible True Story,” as they travel throughout space searching for life and a new planet to inhabit. Besides the story, the actual album is dope and the production is on point. Logic has bars, and his music is diverse. I didn’t listen to Logic before this album, but I 
could vibe to it and recommend a listen.Underground Spotlight: Trizz
“Pull Up, Vol. 2” — Nov. 13I came across Trizz several months ago, and 
I’ve been a fan of his music since then. Trizz is a rapper from Southern California who has great wordplay and makes some good music. “Pull Up, Vol. 2” has some laid back beats as 
well as some more up-tempo tracks. If you’re 
a fan of underground rap and “true” hip-hop then you’ll like Trizz and this album.
Rich Homie Quan“ABTA: Still Goin In” — Nov. 14Rich Homie Quan dropped a surprise mix-
tape on Saturday titled “ABTA (Album Be-fore The Album): Still Goin In.” This tape is 
RHQ’s ﬁ  fth solo mixtape, and he seems to have 
switched up his style a little bit. RHQ has been successful on both slower songs and bangers, but “ABTA” is mostly slower and relaxed. This mixtape isn’t the “Flex” RHQ — I got bored while listening. You can listen if you’re a fan of him, but I’d suggest listening to the other albums I listed above before I would suggest listening to this mixtape. 
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
All around the ‘Ville, students and 
residents alike are preparing for upcom-ing holiday celebrations. 
Whether you’re planning to travel 
home or waiting eons in the ticket line 
at the stadium (BEAT EVERYONE), 
let’s not forget all the exciting things to do in Gainesville this weekend.
Vegan Thanksgiving FeastThe Vegan Thanksgiving Feast is go-
ing down at noon on the Plaza of the Americas on Friday. 
The Student Animal Alliance is of-
fering delicious vegan options with Thanksgiving written all over them. To-furky (tofu turkey — don’t knock it till you’ve tried a bite), mashed potatoes, stufﬁ  ng and dessert will be offered free for students along with coupons so stu-dents can recreate their own Tofurky. 
Andy Grammer
Not many people are a fan of gram-
mar, but everyone loves a good tune. 
On Friday night, Student Govern-
ment Productions Music & Entertain-
ment present Andy Grammer, an American singer, songwriter and record producer. 
Grammer is known for his catchy 
tunes, including his new hit “Honey 
I’m Good.” 
The jam session is happening at 7 
p.m. at Flavet Field and is free to stu-
dents and the general public.
Dinner at the Indoor Practice Fa-
cility
If you prefer an event you can sink 
your teeth into, then join the Univer-
sity Athletic Association on Friday for a 
one-of-a-kind dinner opportunity host-ed inside of the Florida Football Indoor Practice Facility. 
Guests will have the opportunity to 
be wined and dined in the same spot the current 9 to 1 Atlanta-bound team practice in. 
Executive Associate Athletics Direc-
tor for Internal Affairs Chip Howard will present the new facility, and dinner will be served at 8 p.m. 
What really takes the cake? The pho-
to ops with the Gators’ prized Heisman 
trophies. Tickets run at a steep $250 per 
guest, but for the football fanatic, this is the opportunity of a lifetime.
Gainesville Arts MarketIf football isn’t your scene, check out 
Gainesville Arts Market, located at 601 S Main St. From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday, residents can enjoy local arts 
and crafts, food and music. Bring your 
artistic eye.“Wild”From today through Sunday, Reitz 
Union Board Entertainment will pres-
ent the “Wild,” a ﬁ  lm starring academy 
award winning actress Reese Wither-spoon about a woman’s journey of hik-ing alone on the Paciﬁ  c Crest Trail. All show times begin at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. at the Reitz Union and are free to students and the public. 
Holiday Tasting Fair
Lucky’s Market in Gainesville is 
hosting a tasting fair on Saturday and 
Sunday. The tastings will begin at 11 a.m. last until 3 p.m. with samples of herb stufﬁ  ng, green beans Almondine and all-natural roasted turkey. Local vendors will also have samples avail-able, and there will be live music to vibe to during the tasting. Lucky’s Mar-
ket is located at 1459 NW 23rd Ave.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
UF students Emily Norcia and 
Jeremy Martinez are the direc-
tors of the Irish playwright Martin 
McDonagh’s dark three-act play, 
“The Pillowman.”
But it’s not all dark.“This show is thought-provok-
ing, witty, and although it is dark, it’s actually very funny,” said co-director Norcia, who is  a 21-year-old theatre junior.
The  student-run theatre com-
pany Florida Players will present the play this weekend at the Squi-tieri Studio Theatre at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, lo-
cated at 3201 Hull Road. 
The show opens at 7:30 p.m on 
Friday, with showings on Satur-
day and Sunday at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Tickets are free and available 
at ﬂ  oridaplayers.org.
The play is centered on a writer 
living in a totalitarian world who 
gets taken into custody for the 
content of his stories. 
The audience will witness the 
interrogation process play out 
over the course of a day and dis-cover why he was taken into cus-
tody in the ﬁ  rst place.
“It will leave you thinking,” 
Norcia said, “and it shows you 
a world, not so unlike our own, 
where right and wrong often blend 
together in this sort of gray area.”  
This is Norcia’s second time di-
recting a show, with her ﬁ  rst time having been during her junior 
year of high school. 
Now that she’s back to direct-
ing as a junior in college, she said 
she feels she’s “come full circle.” 
Although Norcia said there 
were a lot of surprises along the way and unforeseen obstacles they had to push through, it all came together in the end.
“Jeremy and I had such a great 
team of designers and stage man-agers working with us that we were able to just push through 
and bring everything together into 
this beautiful and somehow cohe-sive mess,” she said.
Norcia and Martinez were cho-
sen to direct the play after being 
interviewed by the board of Flori-
da Players and explaining their vi-sion and ideas for the show.
“I have only been an actor be-
fore, and I deﬁ  nitely think it af-fected how I directed,” Martinez, 21, said. 
Unlike Norcia, this is Marti-
nez’s directorial debut.
“The hardest part for me was 
ﬁ  guring out how to put all the crazy thoughts in my head into words,” the theatre performance 
senior said. “It was deﬁ  nitely an 
exercise in patience and organiza-tion.”
The cast and crew have been 
rehearsing for four hours a day and six days a week since Oct. 12. Every member of the show is a part of Florida Players.
Florida Players is a student-run 
organization that offers different theatre opportunities for students of any major — anyone can act, direct and design for a show, Mar-
tinez said.
Martinez joined the organi-
zation his freshman year, while 
Norcia joined this year when she transferred as a junior.
“Everyone was so welcoming 
from the start, and Jeremy had been a member since he was a freshman,” she said. “So they 
sort of just took me in with open 
arms.”
Both directors said they’ve en-
joyed co-directing the play with 
each other.
“We spent numerous hours 
before and after rehearsal and on 
days off going over concepts and 
ideas for the show,” Martinez 
said. “I think those brainstorming sessions were some of the most fun I’ve ever had.”
Norcia said their separate 
strengths helped expand their vi-sion and turn the play into what it is today. However, she also recognized  the play is constantly 
evolving, even during its live per-
formances.
“I think the best part about 
working on a script like this is that no matter what stage of the pro-
cess we’re in, we are still learning 
and discovering new meaning in a line and new aspects to the char-acters,” she said. “And I guarantee 
that when lights go up on Friday 
night, the actors will keep learning and keep making discoveries and I think that is the best part.”
The actors in the play have 
been patient, creative and willing to work, Martinez said.
“(Audiences should leave) 
their preconceived notions at 
the door and come in with open 
minds,” he said.
Norcia said the best part about 
her directing experience was shar-ing and discovering new things 
about a piece with an audience 
and letting them into whatever warped reality they decided to create. “That is what theatre is all 
about,” she said. Student directors 
reﬂ  ect on experiences
THEATRE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Carol Lehtola, a former UF associate professor of agricultural and biological engineering, will 
lead a gallery discussion on Saturday at Matheson Museum.
“The hardest part for me 
was iguring out how to put 
all the crazy thoughts in 
my head into words. It was 
deinitely an exercise in 
patience and organization.”
Jeremy Martinez
theatre performance senior
By Aly Gill
Avenue Writer
Carol Lehtola recalled play-
ing with a Tonka dump truck as 
a child.
Lehtola, a former UF associ-
ate professor of agricultural and biological engineering and avid vintage toy collector, said it was 
around 1960 when she played 
outside, digging and hauling sand with the toy truck. 
She built bridges and pushed a 
lever on her toy to pour out water 
into ridges she created.
Today, the truck is dirty and 
dented, she said. But she won’t 
clean it.
“To me, that’s part of its histo-
ry,” Lehtola said. “I would rather get a toy that shows love, and this dump truck has deﬁ  nitely been loved.”
Lehtola will lead a gallery dis-
cussion from 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday at the Matheson Museum, located at 513 E University Ave. 
The museum’s current exhib-
it, “Florida Girls & Boys & Their Toys,” is on loan from the Mu-seum of Florida History and will be on display until Dec. 23, said Rebecca Fitzsimmons, Matheson Museum’s curator and archivist. 
The exhibit will feature three 
cases of toys, 30 old photographs of children playing with toys from the 19th and 20th centuries, a 
DVD playing vintage toy commer-
cials and an opportunity for kids to play with both modern and tra-ditional toys.
Lehtola said the aspect of toys 
she enjoys most is the creative process.
“When a kid is having fun, 
their imagination can run away,” 
she said. “It’s like an open-
thought process that you’re not putting blinders on.”
She also said she loves the his-
tory each toy holds.
She referenced the Erector Set.Erector Sets, once advertised 
as “the world’s greatest construc-tion toy,” is a box of parts that 
allows children to be creative 
and build hundreds of models for themselves. 
Historically, the toy served as 
a prototype for bridges and an ar-
tiﬁ  cial heart, Lehtola said.
Erector Sets were invented by Alfred C. Gilbert in 1913. At the 
end of World War I, Congress wanted to end the use of metals toward the production of toys and 
use metals for ammunition, guns 
and airplanes, Lehtola said.
Gilbert fought Congress, won 
and became known as “the man who saved Christmas.”
Lehtola said she wants to pre-
serve history like this.
Her original Erector Set will 
be on display among the 10 to 15 
other toys she donated to the ex-
hibit. 
Other items on display will 
include Lincoln Logs, a Magic 8 Ball, a View-Master and Tinker 
Toys.
Fitzsimmons said the best part 
of this exhibition is the relation-
ship between the photographs 
and the objects on display. 
It’s a wonderful thing to be 
able to look at the photographs, 
appreciate them, and then go and ﬁ  nd the physical object, she said. 
It’s an opportunity to learn 
and reﬂ  ect on personal experienc-es you may have had with these toys.
“It just taps into something 
that I think is just a really in-credible part of this exhibition,” Fitzsimmons said.‘Their imagination can run away’
Former UF prof to talk toysMe and my slam piece have been in a 
relationship for three months, and she’s 
been nagging me to go Facebook ofﬁ  cial. 
What do I do?
Well, if she’s your “slam piece,” then 
there is no CHANCE THE RAPPER that 
you go Facebook ofﬁ  cial (FBO). But if 
you are actually dating her, then there’s 
still no reason to do it. I’m assuming this was her idea, by the way. It’s unneces-sary to go FBO because everybody who knows you’re dating is already aware. If 
accruing likes is going to somehow re-
afﬁ  rm your relationship, then she’s no good regardless. And, most importantly, you have to make sure your other side-
slams don’t see.
Soooo… I’ve developed an unexpected 
crush on someone who works under me. 
Question is, how do I get under him?
I love to hear it! Contrary to what 
many think, most men possess a sub-conscious desire to be dominated, and they yearn for women in positions of power to assert their authority over them. 
I would recommend main-
taining whatever channels of contact you have, such as email and text messag-
ing, but then open up oth-
ers, such as, say, Snapchat. Maybe send a Snapchat or two his way to test out the waters. Who knows how long it will be until things 
start boiling over? Or, you could start 
forwarding him some articles explaining why the Republican Party is God’s gift to this Earth. I know that would really 
get me going, at least.
What’s the proper spooning tech-
nique? What do I do with my other arm?
Where’s Waldo? Does God exist? 
What is the meaning of life? How many 
licks does it take to get to the center of a Tootsie Pop? Is Daniel Tosh gay? There are some questions we may never answer…
Is it OK to poop at a girl’s 
place?
This depends on two 
things: how quickly you can 
get the act off and whether 
she has a dog.
Odds are once you sit 
down to do your business, you’ll have to check at least 10 stories on Snap-
chat and go through the Facebook/In-
stagram/Snapchat cycle at least three times, so time is not in your favor. I’m sorry, but you’re screwed.
I think M. Night Shyamalan’s mov-
ies and TV work honestly became shit after “The Sixth Sense.” Why won’t my girlfriend listen to my sensible argument 
about it while we’re having sex?
That is a perfectly justiﬁ  able argu-
ment and the fact that she is unwill-ing to listen to it, regardless of whether 
you two are having sex, shows she is a shallow young lady who does not both-
er with thought-provoking questions. 
Clearly this is not somebody you want to be with. You should leave her with a little “twist” at the end, if you know 
what I’m saying. My advice: Right be-
fore you are about to climax, yell her roommate’s name. Once she starts hav-ing a ﬁ  t, tell her you are actually a ghost that kills people trying to leave a wild-
life preserve. Assuredly, she’ll say that 
excuse is utter bullshit, to which she’ll have proved your point: M. Night Shya-malan’s movies don’t make sense.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. His column appears in the 
Avenue section on Thursdays. 
If you have any questions you would 
like to see answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com, and specify whether 
you prefer to stay anonymous.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer 
MEDIOCRE ADVICEThis Week: Questions with a Twist
Simon Moskovitz
Avenue WriterElena Castello
Avenue Writer 
Olivia Goodfriend has danced 
for eight years, and this weekend 
she will perform for the second time in “Agbedidi,” a performance that combines African and modern 
dance styles. 
The 20-year-old UF biology ju-
nior said she’s nervous but excited 
for the high-energy performance that begins at 7:30 p.m. today. The performances will continue Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Constans Theatre.
Goodfriend said she has danced 
modern and ballet style, but in this production, she’ll perform in the three traditional African pieces and one of three modern dances.
“I’m a little nervous, but it’s all 
coming together,” she said days be-fore the grand opening.
Mohamed DaCosta, the 47-year-
old director of the show, said he’s 
been running it for 18 years. He 
said this year, the UF School of Theatre and Dance has brought in professional drummers from Pitts-burgh for students to dance to.
Students sign up for his class 
at the beginning of the semester and then rehearse twice a week for three hours each. At the end of the semester, they showcase their work in this performance.
“It’s very good entertainment,” 
he said of the high-energy show. He said he’s proud of the work his stu-
dents have put in, and he’s thankful 
for all they’ve done.
DaCosta said with the guest per-
formers, it’s a big budget. The three guests are each receiving $3,000 to $6,000 for the show, he said.
There are also about 45 to 60 
dancers, not including tech and backstage members, he said.
“I try to bring something new,” 
he said of the choreography. “You have to create all the time.” Al-though the college has put this show on for more than 20 years, the dancing is different every time.
The word agbedidi comes from 
the Ewe word meaning “long life.” Each year it’s dedicated to Godwin 
Agbeli to encourage the continued 
life of African-inﬂ  uenced perfor-mance around the world, according to a press release. 
Goodfriend said her favorite part 
of the show is dancing with her new friends and the professional drummers.
“It’s really a community feel,” 
she said. “It’s really like no other show I’ve ever been to.”
Tickets can be purchased for $18 
for the public, $15 for UF faculty and staff and seniors and $13 for students. Group rates and season prices are available. Tickets can be bought at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center or at ticketmaster.comAfrican and modern dance merge
Similar to shows like “The 
Ofﬁ  ce” and “Parks and Recre-ation,” “30 Rock” is one of my all-time favorite sitcoms, and it is deﬁ  nitely binge-worthy. 
This satirical show created 
by Tina Fey follows Fey as the lead writer for a ﬁ  ctional live, sketch-comedy show. It depicts the everyday struggles of being in charge of the writing staff and getting the actors and actresses to cooperate with ﬁ  lming. Fey’s character, Liz Lemon, is men-
tored by Jack Donaghy (Alec 
Baldwin), who teaches her valu-able life lessons through hilari-ous encounters and situations with those she works with and meets throughout the show. Tina Fey used her experience as a head writer and performer 
for Saturday Night Live as the 
basis for “30 Rock.” Many of the scenes are based on real-life scenarios, making it that much funnier. 
The series portrays the hu-
morous reality of being an adult in the real world. Take a break from all those dramas that are 
stressing you out and catch a 
buzz watching “30 Rock” with this binge-drinking game.
Take A Sip When…
 Tracy says “Liz Lemon”
 Kenneth smiles
 Frank wears a new hat
 Liz is eating
Take A Shot When…
 Tracy mentions a strip 
club
 Jack wears a tuxedo
 Jenna starts singing Cerie gets hit on
Finish Your Drink When…
 Another real-world 
celebrity makes a 
cameo
 Tracy does his job 
correctly
 Liz goes on a date
 Jack acknowledges he is 
wrongCourtesy to the Alligator
“Agbedidi” is a performance combining African and modern 
dance styles. It will run today through Sunday in the Con-stans Theatre. 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
NW townhome to share. Large master suite, attached full bath and adjoining, sep. living/office. Maid service, cable, and ALL utilities included. Pool/tennis. $595/mo plus security. 352-281-3227.    11-30-15-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    11-25-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-1293 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE  
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    11-20-15-7-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
IT/Customer Service Rep for DentalSoftware Company. M-F 8-5Competitive Pay and Benefits.Computer skills is a must.Send Resumè: dave@floridaprobe.com11-20-15-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Church seeking pianist/worship leader for Sunday morning traditional evangelical (hymn-based) service.Email interest tofirstnaz5020@cfcoxmail.com.    11-20-15-5-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsCoach Amanda Butler and the 
Florida women's basketball team are using practice players to prepare the team for games. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports.By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Jim McElwain doesn’t cut corners in 
life, and that holds true for the peanut but-
ter and jelly sandwiches he’s making for 
any of the 105 players on Florida’s football 
team.
The first-year UF coach has made it a 
priority this season to bond with each 
member of the Gators, and according to 
McElwain, there’s no better way to get to know your players than with a PB&J.
“There’s some things that you really 
get to know about the guy when you’re 
spreading the peanut butter on a slab of 
bread and squeezing that jelly on there,” McElwain said Wednesday. 
“Believe it or not, there’s a lot of great 
conversation that goes on there. It’s a chance to spend some one-on-one time, some quality one-on-one time.”
The quality time with coach has helped 
countless Gators become closer with McEl-
wain and his staff, who have been on cam-
pus for less than a year.
Take freshman Antonio Callaway, who 
was revealed to be one of the first play-
ers that enjoyed McElwain’s scrumptious 
servings.
Originally committed to Miami, McEl-
wain helped sway the Dade County native to Gainesville and he’s become a revelation 
on offense this season.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks on the sideline during Florida's 27-3 win over Georgia on Oct. 31 at EverBank Field in Jack-sonville. The Gators will face Florida Atlantic on Saturday at noon. 
Gators serving up more than success in McElwain's kitchen 
SOCCER
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
 
Opponents have been trying 
to disrupt the No. 5 Florida soc-
cer team’s main strategy of ball 
possession throughout four post-season matches.
Texas A&M tried to stop the 
Gators’ dominant possession-style play in the Southeastern Conference tournament final and Western Michigan tried the same approach in the first round of the 
NCAA tournament.
Both teams implemented a 
defensive approach that put 
pressure on every Florida player 
once they were in possession of 
the ball.
The defensive approach start-
ed with the opponent’s forwards pressuring the defensive back-
line of Florida and contesting 
every pass down the field.
Coach Becky Burleigh said 
her team struggled with defen-
sive pressure this season, and that it will be something 
they work on 
leading up to 
the second round of the NCAA tourna-
ment.
“For us it’s just having com-
posure, and I think that’s some-thing we didn’t do a very good job of in the second half,” Bur-
leigh said about the team’s per-
formance against Western Mich-igan. 
“We didn’t have great com-posure and that started at the top 
with me.”
During practice this week, 
the Gators (18-3-1, 8-2-1 SEC) 
will attempt to replicate the high 
pressure situations that William 
& Mary might bring on Friday night.
Junior forward Savannah 
Jordan said that the first-round 
game showed that the team still 
has room for improvement.
“I think Western Michigan 
had a good game plan com-
ing into the game,” Jordan said 
about the Broncos’ defense. 
“I think they played great de-
fense, they high pressed us and trapped us in some areas.”
No one knows the effects of 
an opponent’s high pressure more than the backline and se-UF attempting to fix composure
THE GATORS FACE LSU ON 
FRIDAY NIGHT AT 6 AND 
TEXAS A&M ON SUNDAY.  
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Tick. Tock.Coach Mary Wise knows her 
team has kinks to work out, and the clock is ticking.
With just three regular season 
matches remaining, the Gators are 
improving in multiple aspects of the 
game — so many that Wise can’t even choose one to harp on.
“Can I only pick one?” Wise said 
after Florida’s 3-0 win over Tennes-
see on Sunday.
The Gators steamrolled most of their Southeastern Conference op-
ponents with the help of their potent offense, which leads the SEC in kills 
per set (14.46) and hitting percent-
age (.324).
Despite this, Wise has her sights 
set on improving UF’s defense — more specifically blocking and dig-
ging.
The Gators (20-5, 12-4 SEC) were 
out-blocked 7-3, but out-dug the 
Vols 48-35 in Sunday’s win. 
In Wise’s eyes, both those facets 
were flaws.
“If you’re not gonna block well 
then you gotta dig, and we didn’t do that either,” Wise said. 
“So it just wasn’t a night that we 
played great defense.”
Over the last two matches, Flor-Florida volleyball 
fixing defensive flaws
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 19 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 19SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
Burleigh
"It's not a disease, is it?"
Jim McElwain
UF football coach, when asked about swag. 
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
ida has totaled seven blocks in six 
sets, which is well below its average  of 2.71 blocks per set this season.
With 6-foot-4 sophomore middle 
blocker Rhamat Alhassan at the net, it isn’t unreasonable to expect the 
Gators to flip the switch soon. Alhas-
san’s 1.62 blocks per set is tied for first in the nation.
Senior defensive specialist Nikki 
O’Rourke said the team thrives off its blocking.
“We’ve got some awesome block-
ers up there and when their blocking game is on it just really helps out the 
back row,” she said.
When Florida’s blockers get their 
hands on an attack and slow it down 
as it falls to the court, the back row 
can more easily pass the ball to the 
setter, who can in turn throw up bet-ter sets for UF’s hitters.
Focusing on this concept — also 
known as positive block touches — 
will help improve Florida’s defense 
overall, sophomore outside hitter Carli Snyder said.
O’Rourke said positive block 
touches will be key if the Gators make the postseason, where every team will have big, physical hitters. 
And if anyone knows best it’s 
O’Rourke, who scurries around the 
court digging and passing balls.
“That just makes our blocking 
that much more important,” she 
said.
Senior outside hitter Ziva Recek 
said when postseason play rolls around, the connection between the back row and front row is impera-tive. 
For players like O’Rourke, that 
connection helps with reading where the ball will end up.
“It’s not just about putting all 
your effort for the balls around the court,” Recek said. “It’s also communicating with 
your blockers in front of you.”
The first of Florida’s final three 
regular season matches comes on the road against LSU on Friday at 6 p.m. 
The Gators will get a taste of a Ti-
gers defense that leads the SEC with 15.93 digs per set.
“The key is to stay patient offen-
sively and know it’s gonna be a long rally,” Wise said. 
Other players, like senior middle 
blocker Simone Antwi, have a slight-ly more aggressive approach.
Antwi said she tries to hit away 
from defenders but knows that isn’t always possible.
“Sometimes you just gotta go up 
there and rip it,” she said. “It’s kind of like a ‘I’ll give it my best, you give it your best’ kind of thing.”THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg17UF is averaging 2.71 blocks per set
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Ziva Recek looks to dig the ball during Florida's 3-0 win over 
Alabama on Friday in the O'Connell Center. 
nior defender Claire Falknor.
Falknor said the biggest personal take-
away from the first round of the tourna-
ment is that the team needs to continue 
trusting each other. 
With such a young roster, trust has been 
a work in progress all season for Florida. 
“I think that we need to deal with high 
pressure better,” Falknor said. 
“I think that learning to do that even if 
things aren’t going well, and they’re high pressuring us, and it’s making it difficult, 
to trust one another and just keep working 
on what we do with keeping the ball at the feet and one and two touch.”
Falknor said that even if a teammate ap-
pears to be covered, the players need to trust their abilities against the pressure.
“A lot of times it seems like the person’s 
not open and they’re under pressure but we just need to keep passing and working 
off and moving off each other,” Falknor said. 
“I think that’s the key thing, it’s what 
makes us different, is moving off the ball.”
The Gators have won 10 straight games 
and freshman goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese 
said the team’s confidence is continuing to grow. She thinks the team now knows how to deal with a potential high-pressuring 
line from William & Mary on Friday night.
“The biggest thing for us is to try and 
get it in their half,” Marckese said. 
“So that way if we do make a mistake in 
possession we have some room to recover. 
But it’s really just building and offering 
from our midfield and our forwards to help 
out our backline. We’ve been doing really well with that lately.”SOCCER,  from pg17The Gators are currently riding a 10-game winning streak 
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
UF senior defender Claire Falknor looks to pass during Florida's 1-0 win over 
Western Michigan on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Through 10 games, Callaway 
is second on the team in receiv-
ing yards with 489 on 25 recep-
tions while contributing three 
touchdowns. 
With numbers like those, 
Callaway has already surpassed 
the figures that dominant fresh-
man Percy Harvin had for the Gators in 2006. 
Callaway’s production could 
possibly be increased if McEl-
wain could just get him to eat 
his PB&J’s without cutting off the crust.
The willingness to make his 
team a snack is part of McEl-wain’s fortitude.
He isn’t satisfied with being 
just a football coach.
At the end of the day, he’s at 
UF with the intention of better-ing the lives of the student-ath-letes who put everything out on the field come Saturday.
“A thing you gotta under-
stand, where a lot of these guys are from they don’t eat. I mean, I’m not kidding you,” McElwain said. 
“The opportunity that I have 
to be able to impart a peanut butter and jelly sandwich on their life, that’s a good deal.”
The players have embraced 
McElwain’s warm and welcom-ing personality. 
He's relatable and his confi-
dence is infectious. 
“I love Coach Mac’s swag,” 
cornerback Jalen Tabor said. 
“I guess you can say he's my 
type of guy. I love the way he 
goes and does what he does. I like the way he goes for it on 
fourth down and stuff like that, 
so I like his swag.”
McElwain has been adamant 
that he wants an “open-door 
policy” for players to feel com-
fortable enough to seek him out, 
whether it’s for advice, a friend-ly chat or some gooey grape goodness.
“What did we do the first 
week here is [say] come up and see us. Find out where our of-fices are. Check in and make sure we’re doing OK,” McEl-
wain said. 
“It isn’t like coming to the 
principal’s office. I was prob-
ably there too often. That isn’t how we work around here. It’s 
just fun to see them.”
The feel-good, light-hearted 
atmosphere arguably wouldn’t 
matter without Florida’s South-
eastern Conference East title 
and its 9-1 record heading into Saturday. 
McElwain would likely be 
less inclined to joke about sand-
wiches if Florida were struggling 
to stay afloat in the SEC instead of being in the driver's seat. 
But give McElwain and co. 
credit when it’s due.
They’ve created an atmo-
sphere that allows for fun and humor, so long as the players are willing to work for it when McElwain’s kitchen is closed. FOOTBALL,  from pg17McElwain has installed 
an open-door policy “I think that's the key thing, it's what 
makes us different, is moving off the 
ball."”
Claire Falknor
UF soccer player
“The opportunity that I have 
to be able to impart a peanut 
butter and jelly sandwich on 
their life, that's a good deal.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015
With regular season con-
ference play over, the No. 8 Florida Gators (9-1) now turn their at-tention to Conference 
USA opponent Florida Atlantic (2-8). The Gators are 2-0 all-time against the Owls, who will return to The Swamp for a noon game on Saturday. 
While Florida is expected to 
win handily, Florida Atlantic’s youthful roster has its share 
of playmakers. Here’s who to 
watch for:
Quarterback Jaquez 
Johnson: Johnson has started 
eight of FAU’s 10 games this 
season and has more or less handled himself well. While he hasn’t faced a defense at the 
caliber of Florida’s, Johnson has 
managed to throw for 1,356 yards and has thrown eight touchdowns to just four interceptions. 
The redshirt senior passed for at least 200 yards in four of those eight games this season. 
Johnson has also 
proven to be good with his feet, racking up 227 yards and a touchdown on the ground this season.
Wide receiver 
Jenson Stoshak:  
Among a group of freshman and sophomore skill players, Stoshak has proven to be the reliable vet-eran for this Owls offense. A se-
nior from Jacksonville, Stoshak 
has a team-best 46 catches for 680 yards this year. 
His 167 career receptions are 
a school record and his 2,425 career receiving yards rank sec-ond all-time in FAU history, just 66 yards shy of Cortez Grant’s school record.
Defensive end Trey 
Hendrickson:  Hendrickson 
has been a terror in opposing backﬁ  elds this year. The junior ranks second in the Conference USA with 7.5 sacks and 
tied for 12th with 
nine tackles for loss. 
Hendrickson  
paces an FAU defense up front that has 23 total sacks (third in C-USA). 
Florida’s offensive line has given up 28 sacks today, which is tied 
for the 21st-worst in the 128-team 
FBS. 
If the Gators slack off, 
Hendrickson and the rest of FAU’s defensive line could end up having a ﬁ  eld day.
Defensive backs Cre’von 
Leblanc, Jalen Young and 
Ocie Rose: Florida Atlantic’s 
trio of defensive backs have been 
the anchors of the Owls’ ball-hawking secondary.
The three have recorded 10 of 
FAU’s 13 interceptions and are responsible for 26 of the team’s 
53 defended passes. 
Young and Rose — both fresh-
men — have recorded all three of 
FAU’s defensive touchdowns this year, with Young recording a 58-yard pick-six against Florida In-ternational and Rose bringing in-terceptions against Charlotte (60 yards) and Marshall (95 yards) to 
the end zone.
Punter Dalton Schomp:  
If Florida’s defense continues its 
dominance this weekend, Florida Atlantic’s punting unit will make plenty of appearances in The 
Swamp. Luckily for the Owls, 
Dalton Schomp has been a rock. FAU’s redshirt junior punter has been a solid playmaker for the Owls this season, averaging 47.5 yards per punt. 
Of Schomp’s 33 boots this 
year, 13 have pinned opponents inside their 20-yard line, 16 have 
gone for at least 50 yards and just 
two have rolled into the end zone for touchbacks. Scouting Florida’s game against the Florida Atlantic Owls
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
UF assistant softball coach Jen Rocha on 
Wednesday was named head coach of the Dal-
las Charge, a team in the National Pro Fast-pitch League. 
Because the league’s schedule runs from 
June until August, Rocha is also able to remain on the Gators’ coaching staff.
Since being hired by UF 
coach Tim Walton in 2006, Rocha has served as the Gators’ primary pitching 
coach and has seen success come through like a revolv-ing door.
In 10 years, Rocha has 
seen ﬁ  ve pitchers earn a combined 13 All-America honors.
Her most recent success story has been for-
mer Gator and current Dallas Charge player Lauren Haeger, who capped her collegiate career as the Women’s College World Series most valuable player, the 2015 USA Softball National Collegiate Player of the Year and a ﬁ  rst-team All-American.UF coach to 
lead ChargeAIR JORDAN
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Rocha
