INSIDE
UF linebacker Jarrad Davis has elevated his game this season, but those 
who know him from before Florida aren’t surprised with his success. 
ONLINE
For updates on Saturday’s game between Florida and Florida Atlantic,   stay tuned to alligator.org/sports
HEART
AND SOULBy Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
With Florida clinging to a 31-24 lead against 
East Carolina, ECU quarterback Blake Kemp 
dropped back to pass.
The Gators were ready.Defensive lineman Joey Ivie swarmed in for 
the sack. Kemp fumbled. UF’s Alex McCalister scooped up the ball and dashed toward the end zone looking to score.
Jarrad Davis, McCalister’s teammate, had 
other plans, bringing McCalister to the ground to seal the win.
“I tried to bear hug him,” Jarrad said. “It’s 
been going around for a long time. He said if he gets the ball, nobody is going to ever tackle him. 
He didn’t expect me coming to get him.”
Jarrad stepped up and made a play the coach-
ing staff harps on during practice. But that was 
just the second game of the season. 
Jarrad has been stepping up his game the en-
tire year.
The Gators have no depth at the linebacker 
position. With Alex Anzalone sidelined with a shoulder injury, Jarrad and senior Antonio Mor-
rison have had to pick up the slack for a group 
riddled with inexperience. 
Morrison was a proven commodity before 
the season, leading the Gators with 101 tackles in 2014.
Davis was much more of an unknown. But time after time, Davis has stepped up 
and answered the coaching staff’s call when the team has needed him most. 
      
Jarrad Davis has all the attributes coaches 
want in a linebacker.
He plays fast, he’s aggressive, he’s cerebral, 
he’s powerful and he’s physical.
All of those qualities have paid off for him on 
the ﬁ  eld this season. 
After playing sparingly in his ﬁ  rst two sea-
sons at Florida, Jarrad has taken his game to another level. 
The Kingsland, Georgia, native already has 
67 total tackles this year, second only to Mor-
rison’s 74.In his ﬁ  rst two seasons, Jarrad had just 47 
tackles to his name.
While he’s been a menace to opposing de-
fenses on the ﬁ  eld this year, his mentality is dif-
ferent off the ﬁ  eld. On Saturdays, he’s running sideline-to-sideline, and when he’s not tackling his own teammates — or referees — he’s some-one who is reserved, always with a smile on his 
face.
“Jarrad is a good dude, he’s a funny person 
(and) always (has) energy,” safety Marcus Maye 
said. “He’s always in his own world. Everybody loves JD. (He) always has a good attitude.”
      
Heading into Florida’s game against then-No. 
3 Alabama last season, the Gators were riding high.
Coming off an embarrassing 4-8 season un-
der then-head coach Will Muschamp, Florida 
was 2-0, a young season forecasting the poten-
tial of a bright future. 
The Gators went into Tuscaloosa and after 
hanging around in the ﬁ  rst half — down 21-14 — the Crimson Tide took over and won 42-21. 
It was a disappointing loss for the program.
After the game, the disappointment grew 
worse for Jarrad.
He had to hear about the loss from his own 
mother, Amy.
She’s his biggest fan, but she’s also his big-
gest critic.
“I still love her the same,” Jarrad said the 
week after the Alabama game. “She’s like, ‘Why 
couldn’t you guys just beat them? You’d be un-
defeated right now. They’re a good team, but 
they’re not that good.’ It’s ‘All right, Mom, I hear you.’”
Her tough love is what has molded Jarrad 
into the player people see on the ﬁ  eld. 
Jarrad’s high school coach Jeff Herron said 
Amy instilled Jarrad with the necessary work habits needed on and off the ﬁ  eld to develop a sense of responsibility.
“She’s a great mother. One of the best I’ve 
ever been around,” Herron said. “I guess they’re all good, but she was just exceptional and she 
didn’t cut Jarrad any slack in any area.
“She made him very accountable for all his 
actions on and off the ﬁ  eld and we don’t see that enough as coaches.”
Amy is a disciplinarian.
When Jarrad was an underclassman at Cam-
den County High School, he found himself in a 
heap of trouble with his mom because he didn’t 
complete a simple task at home: Clean his room.
Amy had her own way of making sure her 
son got her message loud and clear and that she meant business.
She made him sleep in the garage. When Jarrad told Herron about his sleeping 
arrangements, Herron had to call Amy to get the full story.
“What’s going on with Jarrad?’” Herron 
asked. 
He said that Amy’s response was blunt.“She said ‘I told that boy he needs to keep 
his room clean and he wouldn’t listen,’” Herron said.  “‘So I’m teaching him the hard way right now.’”
Herron added that if there were more moth-
ers out there that showed the tough love she 
gave to Jarrad, there would be more people with 
his impressive character.
      
Kingsland is a small rural city in Camden 
County, Georgia, with a population less than half the size of the University of Florida’s total enrollment — less than 20,000 people in King-sland compared to nearly 50,000 at UF. 
But it’s the place Jarrad calls home. He attended nearby Camden County 
High School — a short two-hour drive from Gainesville — where he honed his craft under the tutelage of Herron.  
Coaching in such a small city can have its 
limitations, but Herron made the most of it, lur-ing in top players like Jarrad.
“Camden County is not a big town, not a big 
city,” Herron said. “We had three small commu-nities there, so our kids grew up in a more rural atmosphere. Kids like to hog hunt, they prob-ably do listen to country music, or they like to ﬁ  sh.
“Those types of things are just natural. It 
didn’t matter if you were white or black or what-ever. Everybody was the same.”
Herron — now the coach at Prince Avenue 
Christian School in Athens — said he remem-bers Davis participating in a little bit of hog hunt-ing himself during his free time.  On the ﬁ  eld, though, Davis was becoming a stud linebacker for the Wildcats.
Jarrad was a part of a state title team as a 
freshman in 2009, and by his senior year, he was the Wildcats’ leader on defense, racking up 114 
tackles and leading the team with ﬁ  ve tackles 
for loss.
By the end of his senior year, Jarrad was a 
three-star recruit and originally committed to Auburn before deciding to play for Will Mus-champ at Florida. 
He didn’t see the ﬁ  eld consistently, struggling 
with injuries in his two seasons with the Gators before Muschamp was ﬁ  red during his sopho-
more season. 
Florida hired Jim McElwain, who brought 
in Geoff Collins to be his defensive coordinator 
and Randy Shannon to coach linebackers -- hires that Jarrad has greatly beneﬁ  tted from. 
      
As Florida’s regular season is coming to an 
end, Jarrad has been integral in the Gators get-ting to this point: The No. 8 ranking in the coun-try and clinching a berth in the Southeastern Conference Championship.
He’s also garnered high praise from the 
coaching staff. Shannon has coached numerous players who have gone on to become successful in both college and the NFL, including Jonathan Vilma, who Shannon favorably compares to Jar-rad.
“He’s a little bit taller than Vilma, but same 
mindset, smart,” Shannon said. “Very aggres-sive, very powerful when he hits. … Vilma was 
a guy who likes to challenge and that’s the same 
with Jarrad.”
Jarrad has teamed up with Antonio Morrison 
to form a formidable tandem in the middle of the Gators’ defense. Morrison leads the team with 74 tackles and Jarrad isn’t too far behind him with 67 tackles, good for second on the team.
“Those guys are the heart and soul of this 
defense and in a lot of ways are the heart and soul of this program,” McElwain said, “because they go about their business the way it should be done.”
But for Jarrad, keeping in his own world and 
doing things differently is the way he’s always 
been. That part of him will never change, and 
it’s one of the reasons Herron thinks Jarrad’s fu-ture in football will go well beyond his days in 
a Florida uniform, that he’ll make it at the next level.
All because he holds himself accountable for 
his actions.   
Herron said Jarrad has all the intangibles 
to make it in the NFL, and his professional de-meanor will stand out to others when they are evaluating him. 
“He’s mature, he’s professional, he’s a solid 
kid character wise and he’s very talented,” Her-ron said. “So, yeah. Maybe I’ll be wrong, but I 
don’t think so. I think he’s a sure-ﬁ  re NFL guy.”KICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photos for Cover Illustration Danielle Veenstra
Alligator, Friday, November 20, 2015
FLORIDA offense vs. FAU  defense FLORIDA defense vs. FAU  offense
Dillon DeBoerCJaquez 
JohnsonQBGreg HowellRB
Jalen
T aborCB
Vernon
Hargreaves IIICB
Bryan
Cox Jr.DE
Caleb
BrantleyNT
Antonio
MorrisonMIKE
Jarrad
DavisWILLJustus 
ReedRUSH
Marcus
MayeFS
Keanu 
NealSSJakobi
SmithRGKelly
ParfittRTNate
T erryTE
Mikingson
MarsailleLGReggie
BainLTJenson
StoshakWR
Cam DillardC
Treon HarrisQB
Kelvin T aylorRBMartez
IveyLTTrip 
ThurmanLG
Antonio
CallawayWR
Antonio
RilesRG
Mason
HalterRT
Jake
McGeeTE Demarcus
RobinsonWR
Brandon 
PowellWRRaekwon
WilliamsCBFreedom
WhitfieldOLBJalen
YoungFS
Sharrod
NeasmanSS
Hunter
SnyderDE Henry
BusseyWR
Jon 
BullardDTTrevon
ColeyDTKalib
WoodsWR
Cre’von
LeBlancCBNate
OzdemirMLB
Brian 
PooleNICKRay
EllisDTTrey
HendricksonDEAzeez
Al-ShaairOLBEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Jarrad Davis (40) celebrates with teammates after a sack during Florida’s 28-27 win against T ennessee on Sept. 26 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
ANSWERING THE CALL
Jarrad Davis is making the most out of his opportunity
OUTINJURY
REPORT
LB Alex Anzalone (Shoulder)
RUSH Alex McCalister (Foot)DL Jordan Sherit (Hamstring)DL Joey Ivie (Leg)
QUESTIONABLE
OL David Sharpe (Foot)
INJURY
REPORT
DOUBTFUL
LB Khantrell Burden (Concussion)S Marquese Dudley-Gordon(Concussion)
QUESTIONABLE
RB Trey Rodriquez (Shoulder)RB Jay Warren (Hip)LB Jake Stewart (Concussion)By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Sometimes Nicholas Nourieh 
spends hours looking at the relics of 
his past life.
Past exams. An old cellphone. A 
letter to a kidnapped friend.
When he left Syria, the UF biol-
ogy junior couldn’t take it all. He brought what he could carry shoved in a black binder, not given a chance to look back.
While Nourieh, 20, is quick to tell 
almost anyone about where he came from, he doesn’t elaborate on what he’s been through.
The binder, he’s only shown to 
his mother. The letter to his friend, he’s kept to himself.
“People don’t like hearing sad sto-
ries,” he said.
Nourieh’s life wasn’t always as 
calm as the library he now spends most of his time in.
Years ago, as a civil war ripped 
a hole in his country, he struggled to hear his teacher’s voice over the boom of tanks. Now, he ﬁ  nds quiet in Marston Science Library to study for his organic chemistry exam.
With U.S. governors vowing to 
keep Syrian refugees away from their states and students becoming more cognizant of his country’s civil war, 
Nourieh’s memories are more tan-
gible than ever before.
For him, they are memories of a 
home that has been reduced to rub-ble.
      
Nourieh was a happy child.He grew up in Homs, a city in 
western Syria, with his two sisters, a brother and his parents.
He remembers playing the card 
game Yu-Gi-Oh with his friends when he wasn’t in school. As he grew up, he’d go out to eat around the city.
“I remember I was really happy. I 
remember I was really innocent,” he said. “I didn’t know much about the 
world.”
He was in his own little bubble, 
he said.
By the time he turned 16, how-
ever, the bubble had burst.
Before, he played pingpong and 
basketball, ran track and swam. But 
then, practicing after school became too dangerous as the Arab Spring 
protests made their way into Syria.
It had already forced four lead-
ers out of ofﬁ  ce, and soon protesters 
were ﬁ  ring their weapons at the gov-ernor’s ofﬁ  ce in his city.
When a group of about 100 pro-testers gathered down the street from his house, waving guns and yelling against the government, his family decided to leave.
The streets were dark at 2 a.m.“My parents wake me up and 
they’re like, ‘You have to pack your 
things. We’re going now,’” Nourieh 
said.
They traveled to a suburban area 
of Homs, temporarily safe in the hills.
But when tensions began to es-
calate between the government and the rebels in the latter half of 2011, Nourieh left for Damascus, the capi-tal of Syria.
On his ﬁ  rst day in the new city, 
a bomb went off in Abbasid Square in the ﬁ  rst attack on the capital city during the young civil war.
Nourieh, by this time accustomed 
to the sound of explosions, hung out with a friend later that day.
“Because it was happening ev-
erywhere else in the country, so it 
wasn’t a surprise,” he said. “Obvi-
ously I wasn’t scared because I was, like, used to it.”
A few months later, when still in 
Damascus, a bomb was detonated near his school. The taxi he rode to class had its windows shattered.
But classes still went on.It was the seventh explosion in a 
three-month period, he said.
“The more it happens,” he said, 
“the quicker you get over it.”
In Damascus, Nourieh’s mother 
stayed with him for a few months before she and Nourieh’s father ﬂ  ew 
to the U.S. in search of green cards.
He was 16 at the time.
“And then she left and, like, crazy 
shit started going down,” he said.
      
In January 2013, his parents re-
ceived their green cards.
They got into the U.S. with tour-
ist visas, but once they arrived, they hired an attorney to help secure them 
immigrant visas. The status change 
wouldn’t have been possible if their eldest daughter hadn’t married a Syrian-American, which made her a citizen.
In less than a year, Nourieh and 
his other sister, Nuha, received their green cards. On Nov. 20, 2013, Nou-rieh ﬂ  ew to Jacksonville. It was his 
second time in the U.S.He attended the University of 
North Florida for his freshman and 
sophomore year before transferring to UF, where he’s been for the past semester.
And while he occasionally thinks 
of his old life, he said he’s glad to have gotten the chance to leave a war zone.
Others weren’t as fortunate.
      
Nuha still lives in the Middle East.When the violence in her country 
was at its peak in mid-2012, the now 23-year-old was studying business in Beirut, Lebanon.
“We kept thinking at some point 
we’re gonna go back to normal, we’re gonna go back to our lives,” she said.
At the time, Nuha planned to 
move back home.
“For a very long time, I think a 
lot of us were in denial of what was going on,” she said. “Homs was one 
of the hot spots from the very begin-
ning, and it just kept getting worse.”
In 2012, Nuha noticed violent 
groups ﬂ  ooding the streets, killing civilians based on religious conﬂ  icts and, sometimes on a whim.
When their friend was in a car ac-
cident, two of Nuha’s friends ran to the scene to help. 
That’s when they were killed.“They killed a bunch of people,” 
she said. “Two of them happened to be my friends.”
Nuha said the war in Syria 
changed her. She’s more emotional, 
less ambitious. She wants to return 
to her country one day, but she isn’t holding her breath.
“I never want to be hopeful again, 
so I’m just waiting it out,” she said. “Kinda feels like there’s no point of 
wasting your time.”
Although the circumstances 
weren’t ideal, she said she feels like 
the war brought her family together. 
“I deﬁ  nitely didn’t want us to 
bond over this stuff,” she said. 
She still misses her family.
      
Last summer, Nourieh returned to 
Syria for the ﬁ  rst time in three years.
He said the ﬁ  ghting has dimin-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 63 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
UF guarding against letdown to 
Florida Atlantic
The Gators and Owls face off Saturday at The 
Swamp, pg. 13
UF students squat on Plaza
Gators for UNICEF hosted World T oilet Day, pg. 3
Man arrested in armed robbery case
One suspect remains at large, pg. 4A solemn remembrance
See the “Transgender Day of Remembrance” photo story, pg. 8
Starting Over: Life After Syria
SEE SYRIA,  PAGE 5
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Nicholas Nourieh, a UF biology junior and 
Syrian immigrant, ﬂ  ips through papers that hold memories of his past childhood, lost friends and a broken home country in Graham Hall on Nov. 3. After being away for three years, the 20-year-old visited his neighborhood in Homs, Syria, last summer and found destroyed buildings and spirits.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through FriFRIDAY except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means with-
out the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
“Celebrating ‘The Originator’: 
The Bo Diddley Legacy”
Rock ‘n’ roll legend Bo Diddley’s only appearance on “The Ed Sullivan Show” 
was Nov. 20, 1955, and today 
marks the 60th anniversary of his performance. The George A. Smathers Libraries are commemorat-ing the anniversary with an event, “Celebrating ‘The Originator’: The Bo Diddley Legacy,” today at noon in the 
Scott Nygren Scholars Studio (Room 212) in Library West. 
The celebration will feature a short presentation on the in-fluence of Bo Diddley on rock 
‘n’ roll history by David E. 
Carlson, the executive direc-tor of the UF Center of Media Innovation and Research. It is free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In a story published Thursday 
under the headline "Teaming 
up to prevent off-campus 
robberies," GPD spokesman officer Ben Tobias said there have been 150 to 200 overall 
robberies this year. The 
Alligator originally reported otherwise.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY NOVEMBER 20, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 63
HIGH  76° LOW  60°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
10% off
all used games!
expires Nov. 30th
819 W. University Ave
352-872-5655
PROFESSIONAL  
BODY  
MODIFICATIONS,
TATTOO,  &
PIERCING
SERVICES
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
25$ off 
your activation fee
Visit Cricket Wireless at:
3558 SW Archer Rd,
Gainesville FL
When you bring this
coupon in 
*on qualifying plans*
By Asia McKenzie
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eighty-seven people popped a squat on 
the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday af-
ternoon.
Gators for UNICEF hosted World Toilet 
Day in the hopes of breaking the world re-cord of 118 people squatting in one area for 10 minutes, similarly to how people sit 
on toilets. 
While they fell 32 people short of beat-
ing the record, Gators for UNICEF President 
Jobi Bieluch said they were still able to ed-ucate students about the 2.4 billion people 
who don’t have access to bathrooms.
Chloe Bennett, the Gators for UNICEF 
treasurer, said the rain may have affected 
the event’s turnout.
“We’re a small organization,” the UF 
political science junior said. “We wanted an event that would bring a lot of people and brings awareness to this — to the fact 
that not a lot of people around the world 
have access to sanitary facilities.”
UF criminology and law sophomore 
Bryan Boggiano said squatting at the event made his legs more sore than they were 
before.
“My legs are deﬁ  nitely sore from yester-
day,” the 19-year-old said. “Yesterday was 
leg day for me.”
He said he still liked that the group 
taught people about the importance of clean water.
Melissa Turnier, a UF Spanish senior, 
squatted with her professor. It was her fa-
vorite part of the event.
“It was cool to see people stop and take 
part in the event, especially because we are 
so busy the last days of the semester,” the 
22-year-old said.UF students squat on Plaza
Royce Abela / Alligator
Jobi Bieluch (right), a 20-year-old UF psychology junior, leads a group of about 90 students 
to squat on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. Gators for UNICEF hosted the squat to inform students about the 2.4 billion people worldwide without access to restrooms.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
A middle-school student and an 
artist stood side by side to paint a 
mural together Thursday.
The student belonged to P.K. 
Yonge Developmental Research 
School. The artist belonged to the 
Fondasyon Sant D’A Jackmel Art Center in Jacmel, Haiti.
The pair spread different hues 
around with their ﬁ  ngers on the long white sheet of paper. They ﬁ  nished with a high-ﬁ  ve.
The collaboration came after a group of 13 Haitian artists visited P.K. Yonge for International Educa-tion Week. While the visit was the second time artists had come as part of the Sister City Program of Gainesville Inc., nine artists were visiting for the ﬁ  rst time.  
Together, the middle-school art 
students and adult artists from Haiti painted a mural representing water as a global substance that unites hu-mankind.
Jacmel is a city by the water in 
Haiti, and most of the Haitian artists painted elaborate ﬁ  sh and beachs-capes. The students followed suit.
Ian Flores, 12, painted a wave with the sunset surrounding it. The 
seventh-grader said he grew up in 
Puerto Rico and visited the beach al-most every day while he lived there.
By the end, the artists had a vi-
brant canvas reﬂ  ecting their com-bined effort. 
Art teacher Susan I. Johnson 
taught the class on Thursday, and she will use the mural as another art 
project for her students. They will 
complete a poem about their experi-ences collaborating with the Haitian artists.
Johnson said she spent 10 years 
teaching in the Bahamas.
“Sometimes, you’ll see the dif-
ference in the artwork,” she said. “Some people don’t have the same 
experiences with water, and instead 
of beaches and ﬁ  sh, they’ll draw a water pump.”
The program promotes global 
awareness and education, said Julie Henderson, director of communica-tions and international relations at P.K. Yonge.
“The projects in Haiti and 
Gainesville are focused on inter-national and global education for K-12,” she said. “And because the 
lesson centers around art, they don’t 
necessarily need to use direct lan-guage to communicate.”
Twelve of the 13 artists spoke 
mostly Creole. 
One among them, Fabrice Peito-
te, functioned as the interpreter for the group.
The artists are able to visit 
Gainesville through a project called From Gainesville With Love. The project focuses on creating sustain-
able solutions for Haitian redevelop-
ment by connecting communities like Gainesville and Jacmel.
The artists will stay in Gainesville 
for two weeks, and founder and act-ing director David Anes said the group is actively looking for new ways to engage them during their visit.
On Monday evening, the group 
went to karaoke at Boca Fiesta. Next Friday, he said, the group will show-case their artwork at Maude’s Side-car at 10 p.m.
“Next week, there’s less go-
ing on because students are gone for Thanksgiving,” Anes said. “We want to call out to other people — 
artists, musicians, organizations — 
and have someone host these guys.”
Haitian artists visit P.K. Yonge, paint a water-themed mural
Focused on global education CAMPUS4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police confirmed 
the death of a UF student after 
he collapsed early Thursday 
during Air Force ROTC train-
ing.
At about 6:40 a.m., Landon 
H. Rogers was affected by an 
existing condition, which is 
currently unknown, during physical training, UPD spokes-man Officer Wayne Clark said.
“During his PT this morn-
ing with all the other troops and his cadre, they were all 
doing a run portion of the 
test,” Clark said. “During the run portion, he collapsed.”
Rogers’ peers immediately 
gave him medical attention be-
fore Alachua County Fire Res-
cue and UPD responded min-utes later, Clark said.
He said Emergency Medical 
Services transported Rogers to the UF Health Shands Hospital South Tower, where he was pronounced dead at about 7:25 a.m.
Clark said ROTC staff 
cleared him to participate in 
physical activities.
No foul play is expected.“It wasn’t just him that was 
running,” Clark said. “Every-body was part of this testing.”
Rogers was an exploratory 
freshman in the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said.
He graduated from Eastside 
High School, where he played football for four years and la-
crosse between 2012 to 2014, 
according to the MaxPreps website. 
As a senior, Rogers was the 
football team’s quarterback.UF student dies during ROTC physical test
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF Health Shands Hospital’s smallest 
patients are getting more space with the expansion of the neonatal intensive care 
unit.
In December 2016, two NICU units will 
get 16 more beds, with eight beds add-
ed to each unit. The expansion will cost 
about $20 million and include a section to 
monitor and care for infants with brain in-juries, a sibling play area and designated breastfeeding areas.
Dr. David Burchfield, the UF College 
of Medicine division of neonatology chief, said the NICU cares for about 750 to 800 babies annually, but it doesn’t have enough room for all of the babies who 
need care.“We are constantly having to turn pa-
tients away,” he said.
About half of the babies who come to 
the NICU are premature, which means they were born at least three weeks before 
their due date, Burchfield said. The other half have surgical or cardiac problems.
Right now, the NICU is having to send 
babies to other hospitals once they are well enough to be transferred, he said. That will change with the expansion.
“It will keep babies here a little bit lon-
ger,” Burchfield said.
The beds aren’t the only thing the hos-
pital is in short supply of, though, he said.As it stands, there is only one room 
where families can learn how to use equipment their children will need, such as oxygen-supplying machines, he said. 
That room is almost always occupied.
There will be four of these rooms after 
the expansion, along with more equip-
ment, such as ventilators, monitors and incubators, Burchfield said.
Ashley Kim, a UF psychology junior, 
has been volunteering at UF Health’s NICU for the past year and a half. She said the expansion of NICU will help nurses 
who need more space for babies.
Despite space constraints, the 20-year-
old said the NICU always tries to find 
room.
“I’ve always seen them trying to make 
room, even if it means nurses have to take more patients,” she said.UF Health to make room for more preemiesCAMPUSBy Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man early 
Thursday morning after police said he robbed 
a UF student Tuesday. One suspect remains at large.
At about 7:35 p.m. Tuesday, Anthony 
Smalls, 23, helped another man threaten 
the student with a hand-gun near LynCourt Square Apartments, according to a police report.
The student, who wished 
to remain anonymous, said he was parking his scooter. The men followed him and 
asked for a lighter before 
one of them grabbed his 
shoulder and took out a handgun.
“I didn’t have much in the way of cash, so 
I was fumbling through my wallet, and he just decided to take my wallet and took my phone,” he said.
Smalls used the phone within 30 minutes of 
escaping to contact several prostitutes. Police 
don’t know who held the gun, according to the 
report. Smalls went to meet a prostitute Thurs-day morning and was instead met by police.
“When I found out what he was using my 
phone for, I just thought that was really kind of pathetic,” the student said.
The student said he is a 21-year-old UF mar-
keting senior.
“I couldn’t believe that it happened to me,” 
he said. “I didn’t think that it was a bad neigh-borhood.”
Police charged Smalls with robbery with a 
firearm and took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $150,000 bond.Man arrested 
in armed robbery case
Local Talent
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
RIGHT:
Michael Lopez, a 21-year-old UF 
computer science senior, plays guitar with his band Pyramid at the Reitz Union on Thursday. It was Reitz Union Board En-tertainment’s first Local Bands Showcase and featured three bands.
FAR RIGHT:
Simona Morales, a UF women’s studies junior, sings at the first-ever Local Bands Showcase with their band Insignificant Other at the Reitz Union on Thursday. There were about 60 students at the show.
Smalls
He had an existing condition
“It wasn’t just him that was 
running. Everybody was 
part of this testing.”
Wayne Clark
UPD spokesman Officer
“I’ve always seen them trying to make 
room, even if it means nurses have to 
take more patients.”
Ashley Kim
UF psychology juniorFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
ished, but the city is in shambles.
Traveling the same streets he once called 
his own, Nourieh saw buildings razed to the 
ground. To him, the city had shrunk.
He couldn’t visit his old house or walk in 
his old neighborhood. Of all the neighborhoods in Homs, his is the only one still occupied by rebels.
As a teenager, Nourieh had a large group of 
friends — about 50. Every month, there were at least four birthdays to celebrate.
“We’d go to a restaurant and literally take, 
like, half of the restaurant ourselves,” he said. “We would do everything together.”But now, they’re scattered across the globe, 
driven away by conflict.
Visiting the friends that are still there, he 
said he sees the scars: They’re depressed, they’re stressed and their basic needs are not being met.
“In a way, nothing has changed, but at the 
same time their own … personalities or their 
own, like, psychological state is the only thing 
that changed,” he said.
With his friends scattered to other countries, 
it’s become hard to maintain communication.
They have different lives now, Nourieh said.
•   •   •
Nourieh has moved on, but now and again he’ll remember his old life.
His focus now is studying to become a doc-
tor, but he’ll see Nuha for Christmas. And he still listens as Gov. Rick Scott and others rally 
to keep his people out of their states.
He said he understands their concerns, but 
in the end, the humanitarian side of the refugee 
crisis must outweigh the fear of outliers.
Only a small percentage of people coming 
into the country will have bad intentions, he said. Almost all refugees genuinely need help. 
He said people have to look at the bigger 
picture.
“You’re actually doing a really good thing 
for most of the people coming,” he said.SYRIA,  from pg 1His old neighborhood is still occupied by rebels 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Nicholas Nourieh cracks open a binder 
that no one outside his close family has seen on Nov. 3. It contained school pa-pers, a letter to a kidnapped friend and his old cellphone.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Spit or swallow: Genitals don’t taste like candy
I lived primarily off two things when I had 
a meal plan: Gator Dining chocolate chip cookies and unlimited pineapple.
I’m a big fan of fruit — so much so 
that I would pile a plate with it to the de-
light of one of my friends. He would always wink and make some joke insinuating I was getting lucky that night.
It only happened with pineapple, though. 
I guess chocolate chip cookies aren’t hailed as a miracle cure for oral sex.
It’s hard to enjoy something when people assume 
the only reason you’re eating it is to taste better for oral sex — I mean, that’s not the only reason.
But does this claim actually have any merit? If you 
ﬁ  ll your diet with pineapple, will it actually make your ejaculate taste like the nectar of the gods?
Short of doing my own experiment, I did a lot of 
reading about cum — pretty much your average Tues-day night.
It turns out many folks have done their own taste 
tests and/or shared their own anecdotes about what af-fects the taste.
I like to imagine any experiment on the matter is 
a lot like wine tasting — can you smell the bouquet or taste the tannins in ejaculate? Do you have to let it breathe and then swish it around in your mouth for the full effect? You’re not quite a sommelier in this case — maybe a cummelier?
While many people do report things like pineapple, 
celery or a no-meat diet make their partners taste better, there have been no ofﬁ  cial studies done on the matter. 
All the accounts are personal opinions, so you’d proba-
bly get the same result asking your friends over brunch.
Doctors suggest that, to change the taste of ejaculate, 
the person would need to change their entire diet. It makes sense, too. Someone who eats a healthy diet is going to taste better than someone who eats Cheetos all day, every day.
So sure, eating a healthy diet of fruits, vegetables and lots of water may deﬁ  nitely make you taste better.
As for things to avoid, there’s a large con-
sensus to leave out cigarettes, alcohol, red meat, fried food, dairy and everything else 
that is delicious and makes life worth living.
Because really, is having better-tasting 
ejaculate really worth cutting out all your 
vices and changing your diet? No matter what you do, it’s still going to be cum.
A vagina is still going to smell like a va-
gina and semen is still going to taste like semen. They’ll just maybe be healthier versions of themselves.
I hate to break it to you, but we don’t live in Candy 
Land. Vaginas aren’t supposed to smell like delicate blossoms — sorry, Summer’s Eve — or taste like Pepsi-Cola — sorry to you, too, Lana Del Rey.
It’s unrealistic to expect that something, whether it 
be pineapple or a miracle pill, will turn your genitalia into something that tastes different than, well, genitalia. It’s like cough syrup — no matter how good it tastes or how berry-ﬂ  avored it is, it’s still cough syrup.
And, like cough syrup, ejaculate tastes best if you 
try not to taste it and just throw it down the hatch. Everyone is entitled to their own opinions in the spit-or-swallow debate, but I like to imagine ejaculate as the opposite of mouthwash: I’d like to have it in my mouth for as small an amount of time as possible, and I don’t want to wait until I get to a sink to spit it out.
If it helps, semen is 96 percent water, so you’ll get 
a hydration kick out of it. And since proper hydration makes you taste better, it’s a win-win.
What you don’t want to do is make your partner do 
something they’re uncomfortable with, whether it be spitting, swallowing, wearing a pearl necklace or even performing the act of oral sex in general — that’s just tasteless, even if it may taste like a whole lot.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.On any given Friday, this would be the space where we 
make a witty aside or use a semi-obscure pop-cultural refer-
ence to introduce that week’s edition of Darts & Laurels. Well, 
we hate to disappoint, but we have nothing of the sort this week. Nothing. Zilch. Nada. Just letters, words and sentences to ﬁ  ll up space until we get to the main attraction…which is 
Darts & Laurels. Yup.
With that incredibly strained and deadpan introduction out 
of the way, it’s time for this week’s edition of…
Darts & Laurels
We don’t normally talk about Gator football around these 
parts, but that’s mostly because outside the Sports section, 
few in the Alligator ofﬁ  ce have any idea what’s going on at 
any given moment during a football game. With that said, we 
know enough to be impressed by last week’s 24-14 victory over the University of South Carolina, further securing our football team’s top spot in the SEC East. Now that we’re ATL bound, 
we’d like to give Coach McElwain and the entire team a 
rowdy (and hopefully encouraging) Laurel.
The Oxford Dictionaries “Word of the Year” is the “face 
with tears of joy” emoji. Jesus Christ. Dart.
With the arrival of Thanksgiving imminent, we can’t help 
but wonder why we’re bothering to have Monday and Tuesday 
classes next week, when faculty and students alike know our classrooms are going to be emptier than Donald Trump’s presi-dential platform. OH! *cue Andrew Dice Clay hand motion*
But seriously, a Dart for whoever made that call. It was a 
bad call, and you should feel bad.
In March, Reitz Union Board Entertainment brought baby-
faced standup comedian John Mulaney to UF for the second annual Big Orange Festival. For those unfamiliar with Mulaney, 
all you need to know is the following: He created the character 
of Stefon as a writer for “Saturday Night Live,” and his two al-bums thus far, “The Top Part” and “New in Town,” are among the best hours of standup comedy in recent memory. Seriously, 
“The One Thing You Can’t Replace” off “New In Town” may 
be one of the greatest standup stories ever told. Those who were able to make it to his performance in March are familiar with his gift for storytelling, propensity to offend and knack for curt, incisive punch lines. On Friday, Netﬂ  ix began streaming 
his new special, “The Comeback Kid,” and, like his recent UF 
visit, it’s an incredible hour of comedy. For giving UF students an exclusive eight-months-in-advance peek at his new mate-rial, John Mulaney gets a sassy, feminine-hipped Laurel.
On Wednesday, a bookstore called Isis Books and Gifts was 
vandalized in Denver, Colorado. The property damage was pre-sumably incurred because the vandals thought the bookstore was associated with the Islamic State group, which does not deserve an introduction. For embodying American “greatness” 
and not bothering to brush up on their Egyptian gods and god-
desses, these vandals get a Dart.
The Coca-Cola Freestyle (ugh, corporate hipness) ma-
chine at the Relish on West University Avenue gets a Dart. We 
don’t know when those things started offering Dasani, a Coke 
product, as its sole H2O offering, nor do we know how many machines are now doing it, but it’s offensive and we want no part of it. We’re disheartened and dismayed that it was Relish that had to be the bearers of such weird, confusing news. Coke, 
get your shit together and put tap water back on the menu.
Last, but certainly not least, a Laurel goes to Carly Simon 
for ﬁ  nally conﬁ  rming at least some of “You’re So Vain” was 
about Warren Beatty. Stay fabulous, Ms. Simon.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
I thought I might write something 
about Friday’s horriﬁ  c scenes from Paris. I thought I’d write about how 
we could use this to take events in the 
Middle East seriously from a humani-
tarian perspective without falling into the obvious trap the Islamic State group has 
set for us, whereby we abandon the very 
multiculturalism and tolerance that has made the West a place of relative peace and security. It’s these very attitudes the huddled masses who ﬂ  ee ISIS’ apocalyp-
tic cruelty yearn for. And, while writing, 
I could hope in vain that far-right, Euros-ceptic freaks won’t ride a wave of nation-alist reaction and ethnic resentment into 
ofﬁ  ce, dismantling the diplomatic struc-
tures that have maintained relative peace in Europe for 70 short years (not counting a genocide against Muslims in Bosnia). I would also really like it if, when vicious 
goons like Marine Le Pen and Nigel Far-
age lead their gangs into parliament halls, they wouldn’t plunge the world into a second Dark Age, complete with our very 
own crusades.
In addition, I could talk about the 
tasteless idiocy of our governor and his 
colleagues. They saw this crime as an op-portunity to score points with a few para-
noid, merciless people in their states by 
lashing out against the most vulnerable victims they could get their hands on. Funnily, state governors don’t have the 
authority to accept or deny refugees — 
legally, it’s not their decision. Gov. Rick Scott focuses most of his energy on trying to sell Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park to his chums in cattle ranching.
But, I won’t talk about that anymore. 
It’s exhausting and, frankly, I’m not in the mood. Instead, here’s something that’s far less important but still weighs 
heavily on my conscience: IPAs, and how 
awful they are.
What’s an IPA? The letters stand for India Pale Ale. It’s a style of beer. Beer, as we all know, is a delicious and wonder-ful beverage, the cause of and solution to 
all of life’s problems. According to an an-
cient German beer law, the drink can only be made with three ingredients: water, barley and hops (they didn’t know what yeast was in 1516). Hops are intensely 
bitter herbs related to cannabis, which are 
used as a spice to keep beer from tasting too sweet. Varying ratios of these ingre-dients give us the different kinds of beer, 
but all beer is made this way.
In short, IPAs contain hops in excess. 
The result is a deep, horrifyingly bitter ﬂ  avor.
Don’t get me wrong: I like bitter. Most 
mornings I get by on nothing but black 
coffee and raw grapefruit, and I can toler-
ate a few IPAs. What bugs me about IPAs 
is not so much their bitterness (which is excessive), but that their bitterness is mistaken for good taste.This creates the condition whereby 
any idiot who can dismount his ﬁ  xie long enough to choke down a bottle of Knox 
Harrington’s double-barrel IPA gets to de-
clare himself the most-cultured guy in the room — usually a competition no one else was having in the ﬁ  rst place.
I think the reason for this is that, for 
so long, it was illegal to make or drink any beer at all in this country. When that ban was ﬁ  nally lifted, the beer mar-ket was ﬂ  ooded by the big brewers who 
churned out a cheap, uncomplicated 
and pasteurized-to-death product. Many brilliant minds have cleverly referred to these kinds of beer as “piss.” Piss beers 
dominated American beer for decades; 
you couldn’t really ﬁ  nd anything else out there. Then, craft beer was born in 1979, starting with Sierra Nevada Brewing Com-pany. But that struck the association in 
a generation of future craft brewers: 
There’s either piss or not-piss, and the easiest way to make not-piss is to brew with too many hops.
Craft brewing is obsessed with IPAs. 
There are more than those two choices, but you wouldn’t know it by looking around gatherings of young people to-day. Personally, given the choice between 
smooth, unpretentious piss and over-
priced, overrated IPAs, I’d gladly go with piss.
Hopefully, American brewing will 
mature, and our tastes with it. This IS a business run almost entirely by 30-some-thing-year-old white guys whose dream is to make beer for a living. One company makes beer with yeast found in some 
guy’s beard. This industry isn’t exactly a 
hotbed of self-awareness. There are hun-dreds of beers in this beautiful world; can’t we do better?
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.In light of an awful week, bad beer makes it even worseColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
“There's either piss 
or not-piss, and the 
easiest way to make 
not-piss is to brew 
with too many hops.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
Photos by Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
UF students and transgender allies sit in silence while the names of 128 transgender people 
who were murdered or committed suicide are read on Thursday during the UF LGBT Affairs’ “Transgender Day of Remembrance” vigil in the Spessard L. Holland Law Center. When Eli Mender, a 24-year-old UF sociology graduate student, invited students to speak, all but two people stayed quiet. Mender said the vigil was more solemn than he had expected.
Stickers reading “Education Not Incarceration, ” “Equality is Not Enough, ” “School is for Everyone, ” “Black Trans Lives Matter” and “Queer Justice Not Gay Rights” sat on a table at the vigil for students to take.
A solemn remembrance
Logan Stallings, a UF alumna, looks at a screen displaying the names and pic-tures of 128 transgender people who were killed or committed suicide. “I just want it to f------ stop, ” she said in a voice thick with tears. “That’s it. ”Student Living
Guide
presented  by: FALL  2015ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Off Campus Life, under UF’s Division of Student 
Affairs, is committed to educating and assisting UF 
students to achieve a positive off-campus living 
experience. Through OCL ’s resources, services, 
education and support we foster leadership and 
civic engagement to develop great gator neighbors 
in Gainesville and throughout the Gator Nation.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeFree Online Housing Locator Service:  
Students can find off-campus housing, 
subleases, roommates, and information like 
rent, room size, location, etc. at housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu.
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life:   A free 
publication that provides tips and resources 
for finding the right apartment, budgeting info, 
safety tips, keeping your electric costs low, a 
map of the city, and much more.  T o get a copy 
of the Gator Guide, visit OCL ’s office at 311 
Peabody Hall or view it online at offcampus.
ufl.edu/gator_guide/. 
Individual Appointments:  OCL provides 
one on one meetings with students who are 
searching for off-campus housing. Meetings 
include information about the housing market, 
average rental costs, leases, roommates, tour 
questions, safety tips, transportation, and 
the answers to your questions. T o set up an appointment visit the OCL website offcampus.
ufl.edu/appointments/ and complete the 
appointment request form.
Monthly Newsletter:  OCL sends a monthly 
electronic newsletter to all off campus 
students.  T opics include safety information, 
monthly specific resources and opportunities, 
and community events.  If you would like to 
receive the OCL newsletter, visit the OCL 
website offcampus.ufl.edu/newsletters/.
Off Campus Ambassadors student  
organization:  The purpose of the Off Campus 
Ambassadors is to create a connection 
between University of Florida students, both 
on campus and in the Gainesville community.  
The OCA’s assist Off Campus Life with our 
events and outreach efforts.  T o learn more, 
visit the OCA webpage.  offcampus.ufl.edu/
off_campus_ambassadors/. Discover Gainesville: Off Campus Life’s 
newest event series, Discover Gainesville, 
allows you to visit local hotspots.  Spring 
events include a Corks & Colors, the 
Gainesville Rock Gym, and hiking at Paynes 
Prairie.  T o learn more about Discover 
Gainesville, follow our event on Facebook 
facebook.com/UFOffCampusLife or visit the 
OCL website offcampus.ufl.edu/events. 
Learn More:  Visit the OCL website offcampus.
ufl.edu for information about Off Campus 
Life’s resources and services.  Also, follow and 
like UF Off Campus Life on Facebook, Twitter, 
YouTube, Instagram and Pinterest for daily 
updates and reminders of OCL events, tips, 
and fun things going on in the community.
What is 
Off Campus Life?
OCL ’s support services and resources include:
Off Campus Life
311 Peabody Hall
(352) 392-1207offcampus.ufl.edu     
OCL@offcampus.ufl.eduSTUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Getting Started
Gainesville has an abundance of off campus 
housing options including apartments, condos, 
houses and rooms for rent, so take your time and 
be sure to visit 5-6 properties in person before 
signing a lease.  Follow the steps and tips below for 
finding the right place for you:
• Use UF’s Off Campus Housing 
Locator Service at housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a 
property that allows you to live 
within your means.
• Create a priority list.  What do you 
care about most in a living space?  
Room size, rent, type of lease, type 
of community (large undergraduate 
population, graduate students, local 
residents, etc.), location, proximity 
to campus or bus route…all these 
things are factors to consider when 
choosing a place to live.  Devise a 
list of ideal characteristics you want 
in your future living space and keep 
these criteria in mind when selecting 
a location.
• Choose a well-suited roommate or 
choose to live alone.  Know what kind 
of person would best complement 
your personality and choose accordingly.
• Drive around and visit the property 
and neighborhood you are looking to 
live in.  
• T ake a tour of the complexes or 
houses that interest you, ask 
questions, and get toknow the 
complex management or rental house 
landlord.• Ask your friends for advice on where 
to live.  Which properties worked well 
for them?  Which didn’t?
• Visit the Crime Reports website 
crimereports.com to view crime 
statistics before signing a lease.  Enter 
the address you’re interested in and 
all reported crime incidents over the 
past three weeks will appear on the 
map.  
• Go back to the property at night and 
make some observations.  Is it well 
lit, do you see the security guard 
that management promised, is the 
security gate working, is it quiet 
enough to study, how close is the bus 
stop or parking to the complex or 
house, etc.?
• Once you’ve narrowed down your 
search, make an appointment with 
UF’s Student Legal Services by going 
to their website studentlegalservices.
ufl.edu and click on Apply For 
Services link.  SLS can help you in 
reviewing the lease BEFORE you sign 
it.  This is a great way to know what 
your legal responsibilities will be 
under that lease. 
• Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent 
and live, so have fun with your search.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus Life
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
2, 3, and 4 bedroom floorplans
Individual leasing with private bath/bed
All-inclusive with a $40 electricity cap!
24 hour fitness and cardio center
2 resort style pools w/ Beach Volleyball
Indoor basketball and Racquetball court
Pet friendly   -   Weekly resident events
(352) 381-31001000 SW 62nd blvd
Gainesville FL, 32607
Call for great specials!
THE
ON 62ND
Stop by or call to schedule a tour!
Pavilionon62nd@peakcampus.com
ThePavilionon62 .com
Tick tock
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve water
Renter’s Insurance
If you are thinking about renting a house or 
apartment, Renter’s Insurance provides important 
coverage for both you and your possessions. A 
standard Renter’s Policy protects your personal 
property in case of theft or damage and may pay for 
temporary living expenses if your rental is damaged 
(including loss of use). It can also shield you from 
personal liability. Anyone who leases a house or 
apartment should consider this type of coverage. 
T alk with your parents before getting your own 
renter’s policy.  If you are still financially dependent 
on a family member and they own a home, they 
might be able to cover you under their homeowner’s 
policy.  Some homeowner policies will cover a 
dependent’s rental property while in college.  
There are several types of Residential Insurance 
policies.  Read your policy information carefully 
and ensure you have full coverage.  Policies should 
include the following items: Fire or lightning 
Windstorm or hail 
Explosion 
Aircraft 
Vehicles 
Smoke 
Vandalism or malicious 
mischief Theft 
Damage by glass or safety-
glazing material that is part of 
a building 
Falling objects 
Water-related damage from 
home utilities 
Electrical surge damage
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeFloods, earthquakes, and hurricanes aren’t on 
the list. If you live in an area prone to one or more 
of the three, you’ll need to buy a separate policy 
or a rider. In areas where hurricanes can pose a 
threat, you might also need to buy a separate rider 
to cover wind damage.  Ask your insurance agent 
about this extra coverage.  Gainesville is prone to 
hurricanes and some areas flood.
1 2 3 4 5STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Safety Tips
Both personal and property safety is important as 
you search for off-campus housing.  Before signing a 
lease, Off Campus Life recommends you check the 
crime stats of an area before moving there.  Visit the 
Crime Reports website crimereports.com to view crime 
statistics before signing a lease.  Enter the address 
you’re interested in and all reported crime incidents 
over the past three weeks will appear on the map.  Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your apartment search:
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeGo back to the 
complex at night.  
How do you feel?  Is 
the place well-lit and 
populated or dark 
and isolated?Does the 
property have 
working security 
gates and/or 
guards?Check for dead bolts on the 
outside door, locks for individual 
doors, alarm systems, etc. and 
ask lots of questions about 
the security.  Is there an extra 
charge for a security system?Has there been crime 
in the area recently?  
What actions 
have been done to 
prevent crime from 
happening?Don’t forget about 
purchasing some 
Renter’s Insurance 
to protect you and 
your stuff from the 
unexpected.ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
• Communication is key.  T alk 
about your budget for housing, 
expectations for safety, and ex -
pectations for guests and what 
your housing needs are before 
you even begin your search.  
Being on the same page as your 
roommates will make your 
co-habitation experience much 
better and reduce the possibil -
ity of conflict. 
• Start with a friend or sibling.  
These are often good options for roommates since you al -
ready know them.
• Before moving in, establish an 
agreement about who will get 
which bedroom and bathroom 
along with which cabinets/stor -
age space each person can use. 
   
• Discuss how payment of rent 
and bills will take place.  Is each 
person responsible for their 
own bills or will someone be in 
charge of collecting payment from each roommate?
• Don’t have someone you want 
to live with?  Some apartment 
complexes offer “Roommate 
Matching” or “Roommate Place -
ment. ”
• Roommate Matching: You fill 
out a survey and management 
attempts to match you with like 
roommates based on the infor -
mation you provide them
• Roommate Placement: Apart -ment management places you 
in any open space they have 
available
• Make sure you can change 
apartments if management 
places you with roommates you 
are not compatible with.
• Off Campus Life’s Housing Lo -
cator housing.offcampus.ufl.edu 
has a NEW roommate finder 
feature where you can search 
for roommates.
Roommates
Having a roommate is a great way to divide 
the cost of living off campus, but if you don’t 
find the right person to live with, living 
off campus could be challenging.  Below 
are some tips that will help you if you are 
thinking about living with a roommate.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeSTUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
1
1312111098765432
      NW 39th Ave.
NW 16th Ave. NW 23rd Ave. 
NW 8th Ave. 
SW 2nd Ave.SW 75th St. 
NW 43rd St. 
Main St. 
SE  Williston Rd. Depot Ave.
SW 35th Pl.
SW 27th St.SW 23rd Terr.
NE Waldo Rd. Archer Rd.UF
Windmeadows Blvd.
             SW 62nd Blvd.                                  W. Newberry Rd. W University Ave. SW 34th St. 
       SW 20 
 th Ave.Hull Rd.
SW 13th St. SE 16th Ave.
75INTERSTATENW 83rd St. 
SFC
1
52
64
83
7
3205 NW 83rd St1015 NW 21st Ave.3527 SW 20th St.
207 SE 2nd Pl.2330 SW Williston Rd.
6
13
7245
8
1000 SW 62nd Blvd.3
1404 W University Ave.1
9     2777 SW Archer Rd.
2701 SW 13th St
3700 SW 27th St725 NW 13th St
10
1414
2900 SW 
23rd Terr.
3801 SW 13th St.3000 SW 35th Pl.
11
15 16
17 18505 SW 2nd Ave.12
710 SW Depot Ave.
303 NW 17th St. 1216 SW 2nd Ave.1310129
APARTMENTS
16
15
171811ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease before signing.  A lease is a contract 
between you and your landlord that spells out specific details of your living arrangement.  Leases 
often involve policies about pets, security and pet deposits, legal entry and other important infor -
mation.  Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 months. If you will need your place for 10 months or less, 
talk with the management about whether they can provide you a short-term lease.  There are two types of 
leases that are usually available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.Joint Leases
Individual Leases
Clauses to LOOK FOR in a lease:
• Dates of occupancy
• Amount of monthly rent and the date it is 
due each month
• Amount of Application Fees, Security 
Deposit, Redecoration Fees and any other 
fees charged
• Responsibility for payment of utilities
• Responsibility for general maintenance and 
repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 month lease, 
but think you may need the dwelling for a 
shorter period of time, make sure the lease 
allows you to sublease (rent your dwelling 
to another person who will assume the 
remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of lease: Joint vs. IndividualClauses to AVOID in a lease:
• At management’s discretion, the tenant 
may be asked to leave within three days
• T enant waives all defects in the building
• Landlord shall not be responsible for 
injury to person, including tenant and 
guests, as a result of any cause
• T enant is responsible for all repairs to 
premises 
• Landlord may enter dwelling without 
notice
• Landlord has a lien (a legal claim on 
the property of another as security for 
the payment of a debt) on all personal 
property of tenant
A great University of Florida resource available to full-time students is 
Student Legal Services.  For any questions on your lease, visit the Stu -
dent Legal Services website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu  and set up 
an appointment with a lawyer to help review it BEFORE you sign it. All roommates are held responsible for the lease.  If one person breaks the lease, the other roommates are held responsible for paying the total 
rent.  This tends to be the lease more prominent when renting a house or single family dwelling.
Each person is held responsible for his or her own actions.  For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still responsible for 
paying their own rent.  For most college students, individual leases are the best choice.  Each person in the lease is responsible for his or her own 
actions and not the actions of a roommate.  
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus Life
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015      STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Budgets1. What is the monthly rent?
2. What’s included in that rent?  Utilities, gas, water, cable, Internet?
3. What’s not included in rent?  What is the average monthly cost 
for gas, electric, water, garbage disposal?  If management doesn’t know, contact GRU at gru.com and they can give you average 
costs of utilities for the previous year.
4. Want to have a pet?  Factor in the deposit and monthly cost for 
food, medical and grooming care.
5. Don’t forget the insurance.  Before you sign your lease, call your insurance company and see how much it will cost monthly to insure your apartment or house.
6. Are you going to need fuel for your vehicle or are you going to use the bus?  Factor transportation/car maintenance costs into your budget.
7. How much will you spend monthly on groceries or on a meal plan?
8. Have some fun!  Don’t spend so much on rent that you don’t have money for fun stuff.
9. What do you spend on clothing, shoes and accessories? 
10. How much money can you save every month?  It’s really good to save some money every month to cover unexpected emergency 
expenses.  Even $20 a month saved is good.  Every little bit counts.
T o help you with your budget, OCL has a budget spreadsheet in the 
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life (page 7) and online at:offcampus.uﬂ  .edu/gator_guide. 
Your living environment plays a major factor in your overall happiness level.  Know what you want to get out of your living space and choose your location and roommate(s) accordingly.  Gainesville is home now so let Off 
Campus Life help you get the most out of your off-campus experience.
You can’t ﬁ  nd the right place to live until you 
know how much you are able to spend.  Here are some budget questions you should think about while touring a property:
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus LifeFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Graduate assistants gifted a UF adminis-
trator a basket including bills, a bra and a 
condom.
Four members of UF’s Graduate Assis-
tants United delivered the gift basket to UF Provost Joseph Glover’s office at Tigert Hall on Thursday morning. The basket, which 
they described as a work of art, represented 
items graduate assistants have to go without due to the semesterly $720 in fees they pay.
“That’s what we’re deprived of,” GAU 
co-president Lia Merivaki, 32, said. “We’re 
saying, ‘Shame on you, UF.’”
GAU wanted to show what the $720 fee 
means in a creative way, so members left the 
basket outside Glover’s office, GAU Co-Presi-dent Alec Dunnin, 27, said. The group hoped to make an abstract number seem real.
The fee for graduate assistants was due 
last week, the political science doctoral stu-
dent said.  
The fee increases every year, which cre-
ates a hardship on graduate assistants, said 
Kevin Funk, a political science doctoral stu-dent. After paying university fees, one-third 
of graduate assistants qualify as living in 
poverty.
While the university has opened a food 
pantry to help feed students, Funk, 33, said 
it has not been willing to meet the needs of 
graduate assistants to keep them out of pov-erty.
“It seems extremely ironic,” he said.Glover could not be reached for comment.
If the basket doesn’t convince UF to give 
graduate assistants a salary increase, GAU will keep trying to reach out to the adminis-
tration, Funk said.
“We’ll try all of the different avenues of 
communication we need to try,” he said.
Although there was no contact informa-
tion on Glover’s basket, the group said he’d know who it was from.
It was signed: “With love, Graduate As-
sistants United.”Grad assistants tell provost fees are too high
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff 
Co-President of Graduate Assistants Unit-
ed Alec Dunnin prepares to deliver a basket filled with items graduate students can’t af-ford due to university fees on Thursday. 
Graduate Assistants:  
What It Costs To Live
• Grocery: $191.30
• Dental: $112
• Rent: $754.32
• Daycare: $420
• Total: $1,477.62
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
After recent robberies in 
Gainesville and terrorist activity 
abroad, all levels of law enforce-
ment will increase security during 
Saturday’s football game against Florida Atlantic University.
“Of course the Paris attacks, given the fact that they targeted high-populated areas, and one of them was a stadium, that’s al-ways been a cause of concern for 
us,” University Police spokesman 
Officer Wayne Clark said.
Apart from Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Office deputies, Gainesville Police, UPD and Flori-
da Highway Patrol, federal agents 
also supervise each game. On Sat-urday, there will be extra security from all the agencies both inside 
and outside the stadium.Gates open at 10:30 a.m., when 
officers will check bags for pro-
hibited items such as weapons, video cameras, food and alcohol. 
Clark said large bags are not al-
lowed and, other than purses, all bags must be transparent.
Clark said no threats were 
reported as of Thursday, but he 
advised fans to work together by 
reporting suspicious activity and keeping the crowd safe.
“If it’s 85 degrees outside and 
someone’s wearing super baggy snow jackets and stuff like that, it 
might be a clue,” he said.
He encouraged fans to report 
anyone holding packages strange-
ly or leaving them at exits and en-trances or people acting anxious 
and irritable — especially around 
law enforcement.Authorities to take extra gameday precautions Saturday
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Gainesville city commissioners voted 
6-0 with one absent at Thursday’s meeting to remove the criminal conviction history 
checkbox from city employment applica-
tions.
The proposal follows the Ban the Box 
movement calling for employers to con-sider the hiring of candidates based on job skills and qualifications instead of past convictions.
“This is a great step forward,” Mayor 
Ed Braddy said. “We’ve been discussing this for a long time, and it’s about time we act on it.”
Gainesville will continue conducting 
background checks on candidates before offering employment.
If human resources obtains negative 
information during its hiring decision pro-cess, it will make individual assessments, considering the age of the offense and its relevance to the job, according to a back-
ground screening process sheet by the City 
of Gainesville’s Human Resources.
“We’ve been discussing it for a while 
and thought it was the right thing to do,” Human Resources Department Head Cher-
yl McBride said after the decision, adding 
the change should take effect in the appli-
cations by the end of the week.
“Let’s encourage peo-
ple to seek job opportuni-ties,” Braddy said. “Let’s encourage people that no matter their background, no matter their experi-
ence, we want them to 
look at Gainesville as a city of opportunity 
where … they can find employment.”
Here’s what else happened 
at Thursday’s meeting:
Medical Marijuana Dispensaries
Toward the end of Thursday’s meet-
ing, the City Commission approved an or-dinance amending the Land Development 
Code to allow medical marijuana dispen-
saries in certain city zoning districts.
The ordinance comes after the Compas-
sionate Medical Cannabis Act of 2014 that 
Florida Gov. Rick Scott signed into law, 
which allows certain physicians to order cannabis with low-THC, the active ingre-dient of cannabis, for patients with cancer 
symptoms or physical medical conditions 
characterized by symptoms of seizures or severe and persistent muscle spasms.
Mayoral hopeful Donald Shepherd Sr. 
said at the Nov. 5 commission meeting  that he opposes the ordinance. He said it would allow more marijuana into the state.
Utility Advisory Board
The City Commission approved the cre-
ation of a Gainesville Regional Utilities ad-visory board.
The board will consist of seven mem-
bers with certain qualifications appointed by the city commission to advise the com-mission on its governance of the city utili-
ties.
The members will meet requirements 
the commission deems relevant.
Commissioner Helen Warren raised 
concern with the ordinance’s wording, as 
it says the board “shall be” members who 
meet the requirements. 
She suggested changing the wording to 
“membership may include” in the event 
someone cannot be found to meet one of 
the requirements.
Shepherd supported Warren’s recom-mendations, but Gainesville resident Jim Konish mocked the notion, questioning 
why “any commissioner would not em-brace the idea of expertise.”
Commissioner Harvey Budd said the or-
dinance can be amended later if needed.
At the last commission meeting, GRU 
General Manager Ed Bielarski Jr. said the board would be beneficial to GRU.
Utility Governance Alternatives
A frustrated and passionate commis-
sion continued its discussion on possibly creating a separate board with authority 
over GRU.
In past weeks, commissioners have dis-
cussed the potential creation of a board to 
take control of GRU from the commission. 
On Thursday, commissioners decided to 
work more on a potential charter amend-ment to organize such a board during a workshop on Nov. 30.
Warren raised issue with a drafted bill 
by state Rep. Keith Perry, who proposed the creation of a similar board. 
Warren said the decision to make this 
board should be up to the city commis-
sion.
Commissioner Charles Goston said it’s 
important to inform voters that the cre-
ation of such a board, both the one sug-gested by the city and the one in Perry’s 
bill, would not lower utility bills.Weekly dose of City CommissionGave gift basket, included condom
“If it’s 85 degrees outside and 
someone’s wearing super 
baggy snow jackets and stuff 
like that, it might be a clue.”
Wayne Clark
University Police 
spokesman Officer
Criminal checkbox removed, other topics discussed
Braddy
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
IT WILL REOPEN UNDER A NEW NAME 
IN THREE TO FOUR MONTHS.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
A favorite Midtown bar will soon close its doors for 
renovations.
Gator City Sports Grille, located across from campus 
on West University Avenue, will shut down at the end 
of December, said Jon Gold, a manager at the bar.
The bar will undergo renovations and reopen three 
to four months after closing. In addition to some up-grades, the name will be changed, Gold said.
He said he’s not yet sure what the new name will be 
or the specifics of the renovations.Gator City has been open since 2003, when it took 
the place of the Purple Porpoise bar, which shut down in late 2002, Gold said.
Thomas Marzol, a UF general business administra-
tion sophomore, said Gator City is one of his favorite places to visit because it is inexpensive.
He said he doesn’t think Gator City needs to reno-
vate, as it will just increase prices.
“I don’t see, objectively, how this is a good idea from 
a business perspective,” the 19-year-old said.  
Marzol said he likes Gator City because it feels like 
a true college bar.
“College isn’t supposed to be classy,” he said, add-
ing that his dad visited the bar’s predecessor in 1970 as a UF student. “Gator City is my perfect vision of a crappy bar.”Midtown staple Gator City to close
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
HOT POTS
Sarah Yung (left), an 18-year-old UF architecture sophomore, and Jessica Crow, a 
22-year-old UF architecture senior, search through dozens of student-made pot-tery pieces at the biannual H.O.T. Clay ceramics sale on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. Half of the pottery sales go toward the artist and the other half goes to H.O.T. Clay to fund trips and guest speakers. “I appreciate things people make with their hands, ” Crow said.
CITY
By Jessica Morales
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local artist co-op will get 
in the holiday spirit and cel-
ebrate its 45 years of business 
this weekend with a new set of 
homemade ornaments.
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery, 
located in Suite 113 at 201 SE 
Second Place, will hold a holi-
day open house and anniversary celebration Sunday from noon to 5 p.m.
The gallery is filled with art-
work made by the more than 50 gallery members, who are artists who submitted samples of their work and went through an inter-
view process.
Eva Egensteiner, a photogra-
pher and one of the board mem-
bers, said the event will include musical performances. Some of 
the member artists will demon-
strate how their artwork is cre-ated.
The biggest draws each year 
are the handmade ornaments, which cost about $5 to $40, she said. About half of the members make them using mediums such as glass, ceramics, textiles and 
paper.
Throughout the year, artists 
usually stick to making art us-
ing one or two mediums. But, 
‘tis the season — around the 
holidays, the artists are allowed to deviate from their specialties and try something new.The event is the gallery’s way 
of giving thanks to the commu-
nity for its support. Egensteiner 
said she hopes it encourages people to become sponsors through Friends of the Artisans’ Guild Gallery, an annual mem-
bership that includes invitations 
to all opening receptions and gallery events.
“We just hope that we have 
a great community turnout,” Egensteiner said.
Anda Chance, a gallery mem-
ber and artist who uses colored pencils to create realist artwork, 
has already made some flamin-
go-shaped pieces to sell at the event for about $8.
“We prefer that (artists) actu-
ally make (ornaments) from the beginning,” Chance said. “We prefer that they not purchase an ornament and decorate it.”
She said people make the 
gallery a destination during the holidays to pick up one-of-a-kind ornaments that adorn the Christmas trees throughout the 
gallery.
JoAnn Alarid, a gallery mem-
ber and artist who makes fused 
glass jewelry, said she thinks the gallery has stayed open be-
cause of the community’s pas-
sion for art.
“We each kind of take in-
dividual pride in, not just our 
work, but in the work of the 
many artists that are involved in the Guild,” she said.Local art gallery to 
host open house
GUESTS WILL TOUR THE FACILITY 
AND TAKE PICTURES WITH THE 
HEISMAN TROPHY STATUES.
By Oriana Bravo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gator fans will wine and dine on the 
field of the football team’s new indoor 
training facility tonight.
The University Athletic Association 
will host a dinner at 7:30 p.m. for fans in 
the $15 million facility, which was com-
pleted in September. 
The dinner costs $250 to $300 per per-
son, depending on purchase time, and will give Gators a chance to see the indoor field, Matt Goss, UAA director of event management, wrote in an email.
Guests will be given a tour, enjoy a 
cocktail hour and then be able to pose for 
pictures with UF’s Heisman trophies, he 
said.
The UAA redesigned its practice facili-
ties, located on Sanders Football Practice Fields, during the summer to make room for the new one, Goss said.He said the event wasn’t created to 
make money or attract donors.  
“We don’t project to generate much 
revenue,” he said. “It was an event to give interested fans a unique experience in one of our facilities.”
Goss said the facility gives the football 
players the chance to practice, even with the unpredictable Florida weather. 
In 2014, the team missed about 30 per-
cent of its practices because of the weath-er, he said. 
This season, the Gators have not 
missed any practices.
Will Kraus, UAA external events coor-
dinator, said the new space is beneficial to Gator football.
“Just about anything the Gators can do 
in The Swamp, they can do in the indoor practice facility,” Kraus said.UAA hosting dinner for fans 
on new indoor football fieldSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF students may have access 
to free suits, heels and ties in time 
for the next Career Showcase.
UF Student Government is 
planning to launch the Gator Ca-reer Closet in Spring. The closet will allow students to borrow pro-
fessional clothing and accessories 
for job interviews, said Nicholas Carré, Student Body treasurer.
While SG knows the clothes 
will be dry-cleaned every week, 
Carré said the other details have 
not been finalized. SG is trying to find a location for the closet and determine how long students will 
be able to borrow items before re-
turning them.
To get student opinions about 
the name of the closet, how long clothing should be rented out for and other services that should be offered, SG posted a survey on Facebook on Oct. 29, he said.  It 
received 120 responses.
He said there were fewer than 
five negative responses to the sur-
vey.
“It’s something students were 
interested in,” he said.
To get clothes for the closet, 
SG will collect donations through clothing drives beginning next se-
mester, Carré said.
“That’s how we’re going to 
kick it off,” he said.
The Gator Career Closet will 
also partner with the Career Re-source Center to help students 
make an outfit from the borrowed clothes, he said.
Alyssa Estraba, a UF athletic 
training freshman, said she thinks the lending closet is something she would use. Her high school helped students dress for inter-views, too.
“If it wasn’t for them, I 
wouldn’t know the proper way of dressing either,” the 19-year-old said.
Professional clothing closet launching
Future SG Projects:
• Start a bi-weekly farmers 
market
• Create online voting
• Make SG finances directly accessible through Docutraq
• Secure funding to renovate Norman Hall and the Music Building
• Increase the number of outlets on Marston Science Library’s upper floors
“W e don’t project to generate much 
revenue. It was an event to give 
interested fans a unique experience in 
one of our facilities.”
Matt Goss
UAA director of event managementBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
NW townhome to share. Large master suite, attached full bath and adjoining, sep. living/office. Maid service, cable, and ALL utilities included. Pool/tennis. $595/mo plus security. 352-281-3227.    11-30-15-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    11-25-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
MOVING- MUST EMPTY STORAGEOn 34th St (look for signs between Archer & Williston Rds) hand-painted Fenton glass chickens, single brand new bed, new futon, dishes, all kinds of houseware objects, beau -
tiful jewelry, linens, clothes.Saturday, 9am-4pm. 352-210-9748          11-20-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
13 Wanted
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
ACROSS
1 Traditional
Islamic garment
6 Big fish
10 Literary group?
14 On the bad side
(of)
15 Brazos River city
16 Skin malady17 Primus or
Helena, in a
classic play
18 Tan relative
19 Cord for Ford,
perhaps
20 One keeping
tabs on the best
man?
23 Preserve, in a
way
26 Strict
27 Feed, but not
food
28 Ready to pick32 Court period:
Abbr.
33 Abbr. in a
footnote
34 Of a battery
terminal
36 Portrait artist at
a gym?
41 Tank type
42 Optimist’s words
44 Frequent fliers47 Where to see
decorative nails
48 Defense choice
49 Biblical prophet
51 Roma’s home
53 Coach for a
newspaper
employee?
57 Jamaican fruit58 Bucks’ pursuits59 Augment63 Off64 Impedes, with
“up”
65 Haunted house
sound
66 Start of a run,
maybe
67 Big show68 Sources of shots
DOWN
1 Shut out
2 Mars rover?3 Fleece
4 Like Twain and
Wilde, e.g.
5 Chorus section6 Is short
7 Agreement8 One of 640 in a
square mile
9 Quite a while
10 Prone to heavy
market trading
11 Poet’s stock-in-
trade
12 Narrows13 Fern seed
21 Gas up?
22 Palo Alto-based
automotivecompany
23 First lady?24 Has left to spend25 Dad or fish
preceder
29 Clumsy30 City south of
Lisboa
31 Murphy who
voices Donkey in
“Shrek”
35 Inverse trig
function
37 Plus38 Potter’s
specialty
39 Earth sci.
40 Indian royal
43 “Great Public
Schools for
Every Student”gp.
44 Tongue45 Victim of Iago46 What some forks
are used for49 Taters50 Overhang
52 Show
54 Béchamel base55 Sub56 Bone, to 
Benito
60 Bank statement
abbr.
61 Lao Tzu
principle
62 Sanctions
By Jascha Smilack©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/20/1511/20/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 20, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comSee ad on page: 
Say secret word, Get
This Week’s secret word: TURKEY2
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOEStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
IT/Customer Service Rep for DentalSoftware Company. M-F 8-5Competitive Pay and Benefits.Computer skills is a must.Send Resumè: dave@floridaprobe.com11-20-15-5-14
Church seeking pianist/worship leader for Sunday morning traditional evangelical (hymn-based) service.Email interest tofirstnaz5020@cfcoxmail.com.    11-20-15-5-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    11-20-1-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator 
Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    11-20-1-14
ATTN: DriversAverage $1000+ p/wkFleet Avg 1.5 yrs, 100% APU$500 Holiday BonusHome For Christmas!CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com    11-20-1-14
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s 
lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
15 Services
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are 
Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    11-20-1-16
Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save! Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive  Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923    11-20-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    11-20-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a driver for Stevens Transport! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! New drivers can earn $800+ per week! PAID LOCAL CDL TRAINING! 1-888-743-1573 drive4stevens.com    11-20-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429   11-20-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    11-20-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    11-20-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 23 RidesCoach Becky Burleigh and the 
UF soccer team will continue its NCAA tournament run against William & Mary tonight at 7. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators look to maintain momentum
The UF women's basketball team is coming off a 82-72 victory over then-No. 
6 Florida State on Monday. The team hopes to keep winning with Kennesaw State coming to Gainesville on Saturday at 4 p.m. Read the preview online at www.alligator.org/sports.Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF cornerback Jalen T abor gets tackled after intercepting Gamecocks quarterback Perry Orth during Florida's 24-14 win over 
South Carolina on Saturday at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Florida and Florida Atlantic 
don’t have much in common.
The Gators sit at 9-1 with a 
Southeastern Conference Cham-
pionship game and potentially a shot at the College Football Playoff ahead.
The Owls are 2-8 on the year, 
with double-digit losses to the likes of Buffalo and UTEP.
But when the two teams take 
the ﬁ  eld on Saturday in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, they will share one similarity.Actually, it’s 53 similarities.That’s the combined number 
of players on both rosters who played together in high school, and it’s the motivation coach 
Jim McElwain is using for an 
otherwise dismissible game.
His players seem to have 
bought the message, at least 
publicly.
“All of those guys would love 
to be in our shoes so they’re going to come out and give us 
their best shot,” defensive back Jalen Tabor said.
“Those guys would love to 
be Gators and they’re going to 
play their hardest,” defensive 
back Quincy Wilson said.
“There’s a lot of rivalry be-
tween Florida guys and the way 
they competed growing up and 
continue to go,” tight end Jake McElwain guarding against letdown to FAU
Following its 24-14 victory over South Carolina on Saturday, No. 8 Florida returns to Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium to take on the 
Florida Atlantic Owls. 
UF’s defense has helped the Gators 
overcome opponents without over-
whelming offensive ﬁ  repower, but 
quarterback Treon Harris and Flori-da’s receivers should have no prob-lem moving the ball against an Owls defense which ranks 91st in Division I 
football in total defense. 
With an impending matchup with 
in-state rival Florida State, Florida 
knows it must take care of business 
against FAU to stay in the College 
Football Playoff picture. 
Debating Saturday’s game between 
Michigan and Penn State is alligatorS-ports assistant editor Luis Torres and 
alligatorSports staff writer Graham 
Hack.
Michigan will win because…
Michigan’s only two losses this 
season have come on the road at No. 18 Utah and at home to No. 9 Michi-
gan State on the ﬂ  ukiest play of the 
season — a blocked punt returned for a touchdown as time expired while the Wolverines led. 
Penn State only has one victory 
over a team with a winning record this season, and that was back in Sep-tember against San Diego State. 
In many cases, Michigan might be 
looking ahead to next week’s clash with Ohio State, but a road game in Happy Valley will get the team’s at-tention.
— Graham Hack
Penn State will win because…
Who am I kidding, Michigan's de-
fense has been dominant this season and will create problems for Penn 
State upfront. 
But there's a very formidable de-
fensive unit in State College as well. 
The Nittany Lions have the na-
tion’s sack leader in Carl Nassib, who 
has 15.5 sacks in 10 games. Penn PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 12 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 3
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
While the ﬁ  rst two games of the season 
have resulted in wins for the Gators, they are 
still just the ﬁ  rst two games. Florida defeated Navy on the road by 18 and blew out North 
Carolina A&T at home by 50, but the com-
petition will only increase in difﬁ  culty from here, starting Saturday in Connecticut.The Gators travel to Uncasville, Connecti-
cut, this weekend to take part in the Mohe-gan Sun Tip-Off Tournament, where they will face Saint Joseph’s (3-0) on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. and either Purdue or Old Dominion on Sunday, with a time yet to be determined.
Coach Mike White said this weekend’s 
slate of games will show him a lot about his team and how they stack up against stronger competition.
“Really competitive. Good teams, really good programs. I’m sure we’ll learn a lot,” 
White said. “By Monday we’ll have a better 
idea what we’re working with and have a better idea of our strengths and weakness-es.”
White added that the next game is the 
most important, so he won’t pay any atten-tion to Florida’s potential Sunday opponent until after Saturday afternoon’s contest.
For the Hawks, senior forward Isaiah Gators looking to ground Hawks in tourney
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16UF not looking ahead16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015
McGee said, who doesn’t know anyone on 
the FAU roster, having grown up in Vir-ginia. 
“I think everybody from down here has 
a friend on that team so they’re all excited to play them.”
McElwain is a good salesman.
The mind games started early for the 
UF coach, who as soon as the final whistle 
blew in Columbia, South Carolina, turned 
his focus toward building up the impor-
tance of the high school rivalries between the two different sets of players.
“We got a team coming in that’s full of 
a bunch of Florida guys that wishes they 
were Gators,” McElwain said in his TV 
interview after Florida’s win over South Carolina.
Throughout the week, he has contin-
ued his buildup of FAU and the motivation factor for Saturday, as well as the danger 
of getting complacent against an underdog 
opponent.
“There’s 53 people intertwined in this 
game from both sides that went to the 
same schools,” McElwain said. 
“There’s a ton to prove for guys and 
they know how hard these guys will play 
and they’ve got some weapons.”
It’s a motivational tactic straight out of 
the book of Alabama coach Nick Saban, who just this week went on an epic rant because he deemed reporters were dis-missing the Crimson Tide’s upcoming FCS opponent Charleston Southern.
Nevertheless, the message isn’t com-
pletely unfounded from McElwain, who is 
well aware of UF's recent history of close 
games against inferior opponents. 
In 2013, Florida fell at home to FCS 
school Georgia Southern 26-20 in one of 
the most embarrassing losses in program 
history.
A year earlier, the Gators needed a 
last-minute punt block against Louisiana-Lafayette to edge out a victory on home-
coming, winning 27-20 during what would 
ultimately be an 11-2 season.
McElwain even referenced that game 
in his warning to never overlook anyone, 
saying, “that should prove something to 
everybody.”
His point remains: Complacency hap-
pens, and it’s even more likely to pop its head up and bite a team that has champi-
onship aspirations, both within the con-
ference and nationally.
The UF coach is guarding against look-
ing ahead, whether that is to Florida State, 
the Southeastern Conference Champion-
ship game or beyond, and he’s taking ev-ery precaution to prevent a letdown.
“This will be an interesting week be-
cause we have so much work to do about 
who we are and the standard in which we 
choose to perform with,” McElwain said. 
“Once you think you’ve arrived and 
you just sit there and don’t continually 
strive to get better and discover, that’s 
when things kind of start to fall apart.”FOOTBALL,  from pg1553 players were teammates
Miles is averaging 17 points per game to 
lead Saint Joseph’s four players that are averaging double-digits in scoring. White knows it won’t be an easy game, especially if the Gators can’t slow down the Hawks’ 
offense.
“Saint Joe’s is a tall task. Those guys are 
3-0. It’s a program that has had a lot of 
success in the past. They are really playing well, they are really scoring the ball well,” White said. “They have five guys that can step up behind the arc and shoot the three, so they’re difficult to defend.”
The Gators hope, however, that it’s their 
offense that will cause the most trouble on Saturday. In Monday’s 104-54 win over 
North Carolina A&T, Florida showed just 
how well it can shoot the three and how efficient it can be scoring the ball. 
Eight Gators scored from beyond the arc 
in the win and the team as a whole shot 51.7 percent from three and 53.6 percent from the field.
Sophomore guard Chris Chiozza thinks 
that performance better represents what Florida is capable of, rather than the Gators’ 15.8 percent from three in their win at Navy.
“Hopefully we’re going to be the team 
that you saw (Monday),” Chiozza said. “Realistically, we’re a good shooting team from the three-point line, so I expect us to 
be somewhere around the (North Carolina 
A&T) game almost every game.”Between their first and second games, 
Florida had two days off. Now it will have had four days off before facing Saint Jo-seph’s. The back-to-back games on Satur-day and Sunday could present some chal-
lenges to the Gators, as Chiozza believes.
“It’s going to be tough on your body. 
You’re not going to have time to recover, 
so we’re going to have to listen to Preston (Greene), our trainer, and do what they tell us to do so that we can be ready to play the next day,” Chiozza said.
He and White both agreed, though, that 
the Gators’ depth and rotation will help to 
ease that fatigue factor.
“If you looked at it on paper we actually 
probably have an advantage in what we’ve 
talked about, our depth and our ability to play two or three or four different ways in the half court, in the full court, we can play a little bit small, we can play a little bit big,” White said of his team’s versatility.
The Gators will welcome any advantage 
they can get this weekend, in what will be a test of tough opposition, and the team knows it will need to step up to the chal-lenge if it happens to emerge unscathed.
“It’s tough every game, but this week-
end’s going to be a really difficult one,” Chiozza said. “We play Saint Joseph’s Saturday, a good team, physical, and then (Sunday) we’re not sure who we’re play-
ing, but both of those teams are really 
good. 
"We just have to come prepared for both 
games and come out hard and aggressive.”The Gators shot 51.7 on 
three-pointers against A&TCROSS COUNTRY
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
 
They came into this world to-
gether.
Born a day apart, hailing from 
the same town, following strikingly 
similar paths: There’s no hiding the 
special bond that exists between red-shirt senior tandem Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia.
Growing up less than a half hour 
away from each other, Clark and Garcia stumbled upon cross coun-try almost by accident, starting their careers as football players — Jimmy 
opted for the world’s game, while 
Eddie chose the American permuta-tion.
They ran against one another in 
high school — Clark donned the for-midable red of St. John’s Creekside Knights, Garcia the orange and green of Jacksonville’s Mandarin.
They didn’t just run. They flew.
Even before the experiment that 
discovered the intense chemistry be-
tween the two — before the chain re-action set off by their commitments to the University of Florida — the duo was scorching the opposition.
Case in point: Back in 2010, Gar-
cia outran the competition en route to a third place finish at the Florida 
Class 4A State Championships.
Clark? He merely shattered the 
state 5k record by 3.53 seconds, 
trumping fellow Gator Jeremy Criscione’s record and clocking the first sub-15 minute run in state his-
tory.
Together, they blossomed as col-
legiate athletes, both on and off the 
terrain.
Strictly from an athletic sense, 
the pair left an indelible mark on the University of Florida’s cross country program: Two Southeastern Confer-ence All-Freshman Team selections, 
five All-SEC First Team bids and a 
combined seven USTFCCCA All-South Region laurels.
Even on the track, their skill was 
apparent.
With an SEC Outdoor Champion-
ship in the 10k under each of their belts, Clark and Garcia also own the fourth and tenth-fastest indoor 5,000 
meter times in the history of the 
track and field program.
Academically, they’ve main-
tained proper standing, highlighted by dual SEC First-Year Academic Honor Roll mentions to go along with two SEC Academic Honor Roll spots.Their myriad accolades sparkle, 
adding polish to what were already glistening individual careers.
What they’ve managed to accom-
plish as friends, however, is argu-ably of more importance.
Rooming together, the duo 
reached new levels of camaraderie, attuning to each other on an almost unprecedented level.
They crank out extra runs as part-
ners.
They took concurrent redshirt 
years in 2014: Garcia refused the opportunity to lead the men’s team without his injured comrade by his side.
They even have the same sleep 
schedule, with Jimmy using Eddie’s 
alarm as his own.
And now, heading into the 2015 
NCAA Championships, the two run-
ners — qualified as individuals after the team fell just short of an outright bid at South Regionals — lace up their boots for each other.
They aren’t just Gators, singular-
ly qualified to compete.
They aren’t there for individual 
glory.
They’re a team of two.And with All-American aspira-
tions fueling their fire to compete, the twosome will, without a doubt, make some noise in their final col-legiate race.
They came into this world to-
gether.
And they sure as hell are leaving 
it the same way.Clark, Garcia to complete legacy at NCAA Championship
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Redshirt seniors Eddie Garcia (157) and Jimmy Clark (154) lead the pack for Florida during the 
Mountain Dew Invitational on Sept. 19 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville. 
HOOPS,  from pg15FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
State also leads the country with 
42 sacks and is second with 93 tackles for loss. 
Jim Harbaugh has revived 
Michigan this season, but the job James Franklin has done in his second season at the helm at PSU 
should not be overlooked. 
Franklin and Nassib will help 
the Nittany Lions stun Michigan in 
Happy Valley. 
— Luis Torres
Now onto the picks!
In ﬁ  rst place with a record of 
47-39-2 is Alligator managing/
online editor Jordan “Please like my women’s basketball story” McPherson, who sent Edgar Thompson a copy of his story on 
January Miller hoping he would 
ﬁ  nally receive a compliment. 
Unfortunately, the unlicensed 
one was left feeling neglected and 
unappreciated — just like wom-
en’s basketball. 
We have a two way tie for sec-
ond place, with both sporting re-
cords of 46-40-2.
First up is the Palm Beach 
Post’s Anthony “Media Poison” Chiang, who is currently being 
boycotted by a fan on Twitter for reasons unknown. 
C’mon, Anthony, everyone 
is already boycotting you in the picks column. 
Just admit your controver-
sial win in the Florida-Tennessee 
game shouldn’t count.  �
Next is GatorCountry’s Nick 
“Commando” de la Torre, who 
walked into Wednesday’s media session saying he doesn’t wear underwear. 
You didn’t have to admit it, 
Nick — we already knew that. 
Your chaﬁ  ng leaves a trail of 
dead skin wherever you go. 
In fourth place with a record of 
45-41-2 is alligatorSports assistant 
editor Luis “Surge” Torres, who 
was so excited to ﬁ  nd the previ-ously discontinued yellow soda in a Georgia gas station that he 
bought two and ﬁ  nished them that 
day. 
Luis slurped his second Surge 
at 9 p.m., took an easy test and then slept on the ﬂ  oor of the ho-
tel room before the South Carolina game. 
Some burns write themselves. 
In ﬁ  fth place with a record of 
44-42-2 is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “UnClutchLikeMJ” Thomp-son, who had trouble following the catﬁ  sh saga of the 26-year 
old basement dweller named Neil 
Cool. 
Although, based on those spicy 
DM’s you were trying to send 
awhile back, I’m sure you sympa-
thize with any misbehavior on the Internet. 
We have a two-way tie for sixth 
place with records of 38-48-2.First up is 247 Sports’ Thomas 
“My forum is better” Goldkamp, 
who used the @ClutchLikeMJ 
news as a reminder that he also runs a forum where you can pay for information readily available online. 
Just messing with you Thomas, 
you’re nothing like Mr. Cool. 
Most of his Twitter followers 
actually liked him. 
Next is alligatorSports editor 
Graham “Demon Baby” Hall, who recently became a dad to a 4.7 mil-limeter baby in the bathroom of 
Weimer Hall. Urine luck, Graham, the jubila-
tion will pass soon enough, just 
like your kidney stone baby. 
And STILL in dead-ass-last with 
a piss-poor record of 35-51-2 is al-ligatorSports’ staff writer Graham “Where’s my seat?” Hack, who 
walked up and down media row 
three times trying to ﬁ  nd his des-ignated seat while covering the UF men’s basketball game on Monday 
night. 
Come on Graham, you’re not 
important enough for a front row 
seat. 
Maybe if it was a gymnastics 
meet.
PICKS,  from pg15
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
FAU vs UF (-31)  FAU  UF  UF  UF
MSU vs OSU (-13.5)  MSU  MSU  MSU  MSUNW vs WIS (-10)  WIS  WIS  WIS  WISUNC (-6.5) vs VT  UNC  VT  UNC  UNCUSC vs ORE (-4)  USC  ORE  ORE  ORELSU vs MISS (-4.5)  LSU  LSU  MISS  LSUBU vs OKST   OKST  OKST  OKST  OKSTTCU vs OKLA  OKLA  TCU  OKLA  TCU
  ET  AC  ND  TG
FAU vs UF (-31)  UF  FAU  FAU  UF
MSU vs OSU (-13.5)  OSU  MSU  MSU  OSU
NW vs WIS (-10)  WIS  WIS  WIS                   WIS
UNC (-6.5) vs VT  VT  UNC  UNC  UNC
USC vs ORE (-4)  ORE  ORE  USC  USCLSU vs MISS (-4.5)  LSU  LSU  LSU  LSUBU vs OKST  OKST  BU  OKST  BUTCU vs OKLA  OKLA  TCU  OKLA  OKLA