INSIDE
With more than 30 years of coaching experience under his belt, the next step in Jim 
McElwain’s career begins Saturday when the Gators run out of the tunnel in the Swamp.
ONLINE
For all of the updates from Saturday’s season-opener against New Mexico State, stay tuned to alligator.org/sports
the journey
BEGINSBy Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Aside from the pressure surrounding a pre-
sumed revival of the football program, Florida 
coach Jim McElwain can’t walk around campus without being constantly reminded of enormous expectations and past success.
“I have to drive by three Heisman Trophy 
statues every day,” McElwain says, his tone con-veying daunted admiration. “I never guessed in a million years I would be at a place like this.”
National championships, Heisman Trophies 
and future Hall of Fame coaches weren’t the norm for McElwain growing up. 
There are no stadiums, let alone buildings, 
like Ben Hill Griffin Stadium in McElwain’s 
hometown of Missoula, Montana.
“You look out and you see that stadium, you 
think about all the great players, people (and)
tradition that has been built at the University of Florida. That’s something that is so exciting,” McElwain said at his introductory press confer-ence. “I grew up in Montana. These are things you dream about.
Starting Saturday, when Florida opens its 
season in the Swamp against New Mexico State at 7:30 p.m. and the Gators run out of the tun-nel, McElwain’s journey to leave his mark on UF’s football program will begin.
“What an honor,” McElwain said, “to have 
the opportunity to be a part of something that’s real special.” 
•   •   •
It’s 1979, and a 17-year-old rising senior 
named James Frank McElwain can’t decide whether to focus his budding athletic talents on basketball or football.
So he chooses both.
He’s a natural athlete, and in a town of 
roughly 33,000 people, he becomes the starting 
quarterback and team captain at Sentinel High School.
Soon, it’s clear Jim’s future lies in football. 
But despite earning All-Montana quarterback 
honors, he receives minimal collegiate interest, 
with none coming from major NCAA programs.
Meanwhile, Dick Zornes is focused on devel-
oping the only football team he’s ever loved: the Eastern Washington Eagles.
“Dick did a great job of mentoring the assis-
tants and teaching them a lot,” said Dave Cook, the sports information director at Eastern Wash-ington and a former player under McElwain in 1985.
The Eagles are in a state of transition — the 
athletic program was moving from the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics to com-pete in NCAA Division I-AA. 
“Jim came over there with his dad looking for 
a place to go to school,” Zornes said. “We gave him a partial scholarship. ...He kinda worked his way up to where he got to play a little bit, but then we got some better quarterbacks.”
In his junior year, McElwain throws for just 
70 yards on 6-for-12 passing. A pessimist would think he’s wasting his time, but Jim doesn’t look at it that way.
He’s learning the game, watching the coach-
es, and receiving crucial guidance from Zornes and the other coaches.
By the end of his junior season, McElwain is 
reconsidering his playing career but has no in-tention of giving up the sport.
As a senior, McElwain chooses to leave the 
team, effectively ending his playing career, and takes a job as a student assistant under Zornes.
“I knew Jim wanted to get into coaching, so 
we said ‘Jim, we don’t think you’re gonna play, if you wanna keep playing that’s fine,’” Zornes recalled. “‘But I only have three assistants, and I have a spot for you where you can coach at the wide receiver position.’”
McElwain would spend the next 12 seasons 
developing Eastern Washington’s quarterbacks and receivers while emerging as a coach. 
“Nobody’s a natural coach,” Zornes said. 
“They learn how to coach.”
•   •   •
Rob Friese was there in the beginning, ob-
serving McElwain’s first season as a student as-sistant in 1983.
As a freshman at Eastern Washington, Fri-
ese admired Zornes, yet it was McElwain who 
would become not only his mentor, but also a 
friend for the rest of his life.
“He was at the tail-end of his playing career 
and I was at the start, so I knew him as more of a coach and a friend,” Friese said.
He added McElwain has a way of communi-
cating with people that makes them feel impor-tant, even if he’s meeting them for the first time. 
“When he’s talking to you, you felt like you’re 
the only person in the room,” Friese said, “and I think he still does that. His ability to commu-nicate with people is a huge attribute for him.”
Friese said whether it be on the field or off it, 
McElwain had an attention to detail. 
“He was put in charge of the camp store for 
the camps Eastern Washington had in the sum-mer, and he took me with him to go shopping at Costco,” Friese said, “and he brought his cal-
culator and would make sure he got every good 
deal. He had it down to a penny what they were going to make on everything they were selling.”
Even as their careers have taken them in dif-
ferent directions, McElwain and Friese are still close. They talk on the phone when possible, and Friese said nothing has changed between them.
McElwain is still the personable yet firm 
Montana native who wants the best for others. 
•   •   •
Like McElwain, Garrett Grayson grew up 
playing both basketball and football, but eventu-ally realized he had a more promising career on the field.
He was right: Coming out of high school in 
2011, Grayson was a three-star recruit according to Rivals.com and his dual quarterback abilities secured him scholarship offers from across the country.He chose Colorado State over offers from oth-
er NCAA Division I programs, including Eastern 
Washington, and started three of the four games 
he played in as a true freshman.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the country, 
McElwain was coaching Alabama’s offense and helping develop first-year starting quarterback AJ McCarron. 
With McCarron at the helm, the Crimson 
Tide were 11-1 and heading to the 2012 BCS Na-tional Championship game, where they’d even-
tually shut out LSU for the trophy. 
But less than a month before the game, McEl-
wain emerged as a leading candidate to become 
the next coach of the Colorado State Rams.
It was everything he had worked for his en-
tire life and an offer too good to pass up.
So McElwain, with his wife Karen and their 
three children, packed up their house and moved back west, only this time to Fort Collins.
After 28 years and seven different coaching 
gigs, the son of James and Marjorie McElwain  finally had his long-coveted head coaching gig.
And his first order of business, according to 
Grayson, was turning the Rams into “an actual team.”
“He came in and told us we were very self-
ish players, we weren’t a team, just a bunch of cliques,” Grayson said in an email. “That was 
something we all took to heart. We knew that. 
“Once we opened our eyes to that, everybody 
started to get to know each other better. Once 
you get to know them as family, you get to trust them to do the right thing out on the field.”
To Grayson, a third-round pick by the New 
Orleans Saints in the 2015 NFL Draft, this was McElwain’s way of showing he cared about them not just as a team, but individually as well.
“If we didn’t do it right the first time, we had 
to do it again, right then and there,” Grayson said. “He wanted perfection out of everyone and expected it.”
All coaches expect and hope for perfection, 
but McElwain was different from most: He could 
still remain calm under pressure while com-
manding respect and establishing expectations.
“He didn’t get on you as much, but still in the 
film room, weight room, classroom, whatever it was,” Grayson said, “he still wanted absolute perfection out of you ... and he demanded it.
•   •   •
Jeremy Foley walked off a plane in Fort Col-
lins, Colorado, in early December and was im-mediately greeted with a blast of icy wind.
It wasn’t the most desirable destination, but 
Foley was on a mission: He was searching for 
Florida’s new football coach.
He couldn’t make the same mistake he made 
when hiring Will Muschamp, a defensive-mind-
ed coach with no previous head coaching expe-rience. 
The Gators needed a coach who had led a 
program, a coach who understood the impor-tance of developing an offense.
The name Jim McElwain stood out from the 
rest.
He fit the criteria: a former quarterback, ex-
perience coaching in the Southeastern Confer-ence, and a proven winner as a head coach at Colorado State.
Foley said it was “very apparent” McElwain 
was the next coach for the Gators.
Mutual interest was immediately expressed, 
and Foley soon consulted UF’s legal department 
to figure out how to get McElwain out of his $7.5 
million buyout at Colorado State.
Less than 48 hours later, the news was out: 
Florida had hired Jim McElwain as the latest head coach of its football team.
“We talked to a lot of people about Jim, what 
type of person is he, what type of person will he be inside the building,” Foley said as he in-troduced McElwain as UF’s 25th head coach on 
Dec. 6. 
“Every single box kept getting checked next 
to Jim’s name.”
•   •   •
McElwain has been in Gainesville just nine 
months now, but the players he inherited have 
already noticed a change in culture, an increased sense of optimism and a more family-oriented atmosphere.
“I feel like all of the coaching staff has ... 
preached about family and they take that very serious,” junior linebacker Daniel McMillian said. “I can honestly say these are my brothers.”
The quarterbacks are excited about the possi-
bility of a potent offense. McElwain has the team believing. “The offense is just different from last year,” 
sophomore quarterback Treon Harris said. 
The Gators have gained respect for McEl-
wain, not just because he’s their coach, but be-cause of the way he treats them as individuals.
“He’s a guy who you would like to play for. 
When he talks, you listen,” redshirt junior de-fensive lineman Bryan Cox, Jr. said. 
“He knows how to bring everything together. 
Not just offense or just defense. We’re becoming more of a team now.”
While McElwain expects perfection, he ac-
cepts human error. He understands he’s there to teach players, to help them develop.
“You don’t get any do-overs in life,” McEl-
wain said. “That’s been kind of what we’re try-ing to stress to them. We’ve got to do it right the first time.
“You have to constantly go because someone 
is getting better.”
•   •   •
The two don’t spend as much time togeth-
er as they’d like, but Friese knows McElwain couldn’t change even if he wanted to. 
Rather than a football coach at a renowned 
university, McElwain is just his friend from 
Montana. 
“I remember him coming down between jobs 
trying to make a decision whether to take the 
head coaching job at Colorado State, and he’d come down and just want to sit around a camp-fire for a weekend. I think that’s his comfort zone,” Friese said. 
“When we were cooking, he would go find 
the best piece of meat. We even had to go get 
apple branches because he said the smoke from 
apple branches makes the meat taste better.”
The desire for perfection is why Jim McEl-
wain has accomplished everything he has to this point. 
It’s why Jeremy Foley flew to Fort Collins 
and immediately became enamored with a rela-tively unknown coach. 
It’s why the Gators, yet to play a down of 
football this season, have a renewed sense of optimism.
Florida’s three Heisman Trophy winners didn’t settle for anything less than the best.
McElwain won’t either.“Anytime you can be involved in men’s lives, 
help them understand what it is to be a success both on and off the field and the opportunity 
to help them move forward with their life,” 
McElwain said, “that’s why we’re in this.”
  KICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photo for Cover Illustration Hannah Morse
Alligator, Friday, September 4, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain stands on the field during Florida’s Spring practice on April 6 at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain arrives in Gainesville on Dec. 5, a day before Florida introduced him as the 25th head coach in the history of the football program. 
FLORIDA defense vs. NEW MEXICO STATE offense
Anthony 
McMeansCTyler 
RogersQBLarry Rose IIIRB
Jon 
BullardDE
Jalen T abor
or Quincy WilsonCB
Vernon
Hargreaves, IIICB
Joey
IvieDT
Caleb
BrantleyDT
Alex
AnzaloneSAM
Antonio 
MorrisonMIKE
Jarrad
DavisWILLBryan Cox, Jr.RUSH
Nick
WashingtonS
Duke
DawsonSIsaiah
FolasaLG
Houston
ClementeLTClayton
GranchWR
Abram
HollandLG
Andy
CunninghamRTT eldrick 
MorganH
Jordan 
BergstromWRFLORIDA offense vs. NEW MEXICO STATE defense
Cam DillardC
Treon HarrisQB
Kelvin T aylorRBMason HalterLTTrip
ThurmanLG
Antonio 
RilesRG
David
SharpeRT
Jake
McGeeTERobert 
WagnerMIKE
Josh
GibbsDT
Jacob
BenegasDT
Stephen
MeredithDE
Lewis 
HillCBRodney
ButlerWILL
T errill 
HanksSAMKawe
JohnsonS
Jaden
WrightS
Tyrain
T aylorWR
Demarcus
RobinsonWR
Brandon
PowellWRAhmad 
FulwoodWRStody
BradleyDE
DeMarcus Owens 
or Winston RoseCBINJURY
REPORT
DOUBTFUL
 S Keanu Neal (Leg)T Martez Ivey (Knee)
SUSPENDED
WR Latroy PittmanDL Alex McCalisterS Marcus Maye
OUT
INJURY
REPORT
DB King Davis III (ShoulderDE Kalei Auelua (Knee)DE Derek Watson (Shoulder)
DOUBTFUL
DL Drew James (Concussion)LS Thomas McGwire (Knee)DL Kourtland Busby (Knee)EXPECTING PERFECTION
McElwain prepared for first seasonBy Caylee Underwood
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 350 UF students and 
community members applauded 
as members of the LGBTQ+ com-
munity shared their struggles and 
triumphs.
Sitting side-by-side in the Uni-
versity Auditorium on Thursday, 
they welcomed speakers, danc-
ers, activists and multicultural groups to UF’s Pride Student Union’s 15th annual LGBTQ+ Welcome Assembly.
“I think the event proved how 
inclusive (the LGBTQ+ commu-nity is) and how they just want everyone to be themselves,” said 
UF anthropology junior Emily 
Krichmar.
The 20-year-old said Bamby 
Salcedo, a Latino trans woman and the keynote speaker, was 
her favorite part of the event. 
She called Salcedo an inspiration, describing Salcedo’s genuine na-ture.
When she walked up to the 
stage, Salcedo told the audience to gather together as she pulled out her phone and took a selﬁ  e with the crowd.
She then began her speech.“I am an empowered trans 
woman,” she said.
She read a poem about her past 
struggles as a trans woman before sharing her continual battle with hate and misunderstanding.
On Aug. 26, Salcedo said she 
went to Target, where she was a 
victim of a hate crime. She said a 
person came out of nowhere say-ing hurtful and hateful things to her. She had to call police.
“I was able to stand up to not 
only the person who attacked me, but also the police — to educate them that this was a hate crime,” Salcedo said.
When UF health education We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
Jim McElwain era of 
Florida football begins Saturday
Kelvin T aylor and UF’s running game plan 
to have a big game, pg. 13
Police attend training course for fair practices
Local ofﬁ  cers discussed biases and designing action plans, pg. 3
Do the right thing — pay for your porn
Read Robyn Smith’s column, pg. 7Something New in Orange 
and Blue
For a photo story of the fashion show, 
go to alligator.org
CONSTRUCTION WILL 
TAKE TWO TO THREE 
YEARS.
By Lauren Flannery
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Innovation Hub will 
double in size after receiving an 
$8 million federal grant.
The grant, awarded by the 
U.S. Economic Development Administration on Tuesday, along with  $9 million in fund-
ing from the university, will al-
low the startup business incuba-tor to begin construction on a second phase of its building in early 2016.
The 50,000-square-foot ex-
pansion will be similar to the ex-isting building with ofﬁ  ce space and laboratories for startups to 
use, said Jane Muir, director of 
the Innovation Hub.
Muir said expansion has al-
ways been a goal for the hub, and when the ﬁ  rst phase of the 
building reached capacity, she 
began applying for funding.
“We believe that the po-
tential here in Gainesville is 
so great,” she said. “We knew 
that if we proved ourselves with phase one, there would be a lot more opportunity.”
Construction is expected to 
last between two to three years.
In addition to ofﬁ  ce space, 
the new building will also in-clude an Entrepreneurial Wom-
an’s Center to provide mentor-
ing and resources to women-led startups, which Muir said were woefully underrepresented in 
the boom of technology start-
ups.
“We do have a couple of 
women-led startups, but our goal is to ultimately get more,” 
she said.
Sixty-one technology-based 
companies have gotten their 
start at the hub, which opened 
in 2011. 
They have raised more than 
$50 million in private invest-
ments and created more than 700 jobs, said Muir. 
Some of the startups, like 
Shadow Health, have gone on to base their companies in down-town Gainesville.
Angelina Howell, CEO of An-
thrographic, said beginning her company at the hub was instru-mental for her business. 
The software company, UF Innovation Hub 
to expand, awarded $8 million grant 
CAMPUS
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
The second day of slating and qualifying 
saw a slight increase of students running, 
or slating, with either Access Party or Im-
pact Party.  
For Fall 2015 Student Government elec-tions, 76 candidates qualiﬁ  ed, with 12 slat-
ing with Access, 64 slating with Impact and no student slates as independent, UF Supervisor of Elections Sam Book wrote in an email.
UF SG continued the interview process 
Wednesday for students looking to qualify for the elections to ﬁ  ll 50 Student Senate seats based on students’ residential loca-tions. On the ﬁ  rst day of slating, 50 stu-dents slated with Impact, 13 with Access and one as an independent, Book said.
Students can register with Access, Im-
pact or as an independent candidate. To 
qualify, students must be full-time and 
have their Gator 1 Card, Book said.
Impact president Chris Boyett, a former 
Access senator, said the new party is a 
combination of members from Swamp Par-
ty and Access Party. Swamp didn’t register for slating.Boyett said two more former Access 
members, aside from Sen. Saneh Ste. Claire and himself, have joined Impact, but he declined to identify them.
He said he was happy with the amount 
of students who came out to slate.
“I like the idea of democracy – two par-
ties running against each other,” he said.
Ramsey Touchberry said he decided to 
slate because some senators he knew en-couraged him to join SG.76 candidates qualified on second day of slating LGBTQ+ event draws crowd
SEE SLATING,  PAGE 8SEE INNOVATION,  PAGE 8Andrea Cornejo/Alligator Staff
Gabrielle Ricci, a 22-year-old UF psychology senior, works the Wild 
Iris Books’ booth at the LGBTQ+ Welcome Assembly on Thursday.SEE LGBTQ+,  PAGE 8
Slating continues today“The Innovation Hub has 
the winning formula, and 
I think they are proving 
it through their ability 
to get grants. I think it’s 
going to change the face of 
Gainesville.”
Angelina Howell
CEO of AnthrographicSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org.  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Celebrate Krishna’s Birthday
Krishna House is organizing a 
celebration to mark the appear-ance of Lord Krishna beginning 7 p.m. today. The program will 
have celebratory activities and 
discussion, which will be fol-lowed by a grand feast. It is held at the Krishna House, located at 214 NW 14th St. No registration is required. 
Physics Bus
The Physics Bus will be stationed 
behind the New Physics Building 
for two hours before kickoff for all home football games this Fall.  The Physics Bus is a nonprofit, interactive science experience.  Come explore exciting demon-strations using common items found in your home.  This experi-ence is free and fun for all ages.  
The Physics Bus will be at NPB 
on Saturday from 5 p.m. to  7:30 p.m.
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate the first home football game of the season with Game Day: Swamp Chomp tonight from 8 p.m. to 
1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The 
event will feature a live magic show from magician Ran’D Shine, Stuff-A-Gator, a mechani-cal football and a headphone disco dance party. GatorNights will also be hosting showings of the movie “Tomorrowland”  at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium. 
The night will end with free bar-becue at Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the 
event.
Source Program
The Source Program is a multi-
disciplinary clinic at the UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. The program provides free and 
confidential legal representation, 
mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigra-tion and restraining orders for the protection against domestic violence. The program also has a social worker who specializes in in-
timate partner violence and 
provides counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim ad-vocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valu-able community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 352-273-0805 or email drake@law.ufl.edu.
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
ComedyFree stand-up comedy features UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals, every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at Market Street Pub and Cabaret. The show features professional comedians and ama-
teur comics tearing up the stage. 
Feeling funny? Show up before 9 p.m. and sign up for our comedy open mic.  Comedy workshop at 8 p.m. is hosted by local pros. Visit  facebook.com/gainesville-comedyshowcase.
UFIC Study Abroad Fair
On September 16 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas, the UF International Center invites students and faculty to learn about current study-abroad programs. At the UF study abroad fair, students can learn more about the array of study abroad options available 
to them. Program directors, inde-
pendent program providers and former study abroad students will be available to share their inter-national experiences at the fair. The UFIC staff will be available to explain the application process and help students with the first steps to find the right program for 
them. 
Other universities and institu-tions that offer UF-approved study-abroad programs and in-ternships will also be available to help students navigate their way through the many study abroad opportunities. For additional in-formation about the study abroad 
fair, visit ufic.ufl.edu or contact 
Alexis Weisman at aweisman@ufic.ufl.edu.
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement with CubaThe UF Center for Latin American Studies, UF Cuba Program, UF International Center and the 
Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences invite you to attend a workshop on academic engage-ment with Cuba on September 29 from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the UF International Center. The workshop is free and open to the public, but registration is required. To reserve your seat, 
please visit EventBrite.com 
(search: Workshop on Academic Engagement with Cuba).
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, or UF international students or scholars, are eligible to enter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. First-prize winners will each re-
ceive $100, second-prize winners 
will receive $50 and third-prize winners will receive $25. Total prizes will equal $525.The submission period will be open until Oct. 9. For more information, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html or email mcardec@ufic.ufl.
edu.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club will meet every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in room 1031 of the Entomology Building, located at 970 Natural Area Drive. The club is open to everyone. For 
details about Talking Gators, 
go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and posi-tive learning experience in which members are empowered to de-velop communication and lead-
ership skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal growth.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
The city of Gainesville did not 
purchase the land for Depot Park from Gainesville Regional Utilities. We initially reported otherwise in the story published 
Thursday titled “GNV park al-
most complete.” In the same story, the land’s soil was con-taminated with tar when the city purchased the land. Our original version of the story was unclear. Finally, Depot Park is going to be 32 acres. We initially reported otherwise.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 10
HIGH  93° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca KravetzFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
One FREE Drink
With purchase of a meal
Redeem at any
Gainesville
Harvest Thyme
Free 
Delivery
Downtown - 2nd W. University Ave(352) 384 - 9497orMagnolia Parke - 4780 NW 39th Ave(352) 519 - 5344
LOCAL
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local police ofﬁ  cers and community 
members joined together Thursday to 
learn how to apply fair practices in the line of duty.
About 30 people, including 
Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones and University Police Chief Linda Stump, attended the training course, “Fair and Impartial Policing: A Science-Based Ap-proach.”
The interactive class, held at GPD’s 
Hall of Heroes, discussed how under-standing an individual’s implicit biases can help police ofﬁ  cers and community 
leaders design action plans and build 
relationships with the community.
“Ofﬁ  cers who have not formed re-
lationships in the community are au-tomatically ﬁ  lled in with stereotypes,” said Lorie Fridell, a USF criminology professor and the class instructor.
The event was held in light of the 
controversy in Ferguson, Missouri, 
where an ofﬁ  cer shot a black 18-year-
old man, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
“It’s part of our job to hear scruti-
ny,” GPD Lt. Rob Koehler said. 
UF health science junior Caitlyn Turner, 21,  said she thought the focus shouldn’t just be on police ofﬁ  cers, but the community as a whole.
“Another force has to come in to 
maintain a protected community,” Turner said. “The force is us.”
Fridell divided attendees into groups 
based on agencies to identify their top three priorities in moving ahead with their action plans. 
Part of the action plans included 
volunteering with the community, de-veloping policy in conjunction with stakeholders and thoroughly evaluating plans and decisions.
“This is the beginning of a long 
journey, to take the things that we have learned here and implement them in our training and our policy,” Jones 
said. “It’s a great start to understand-
ing this very delicate subject and what to progress on in the Gainesville com-munity.”Police attend training 
course for fair practices
“This is the beginning of a long 
journey, to take the things 
that we have learned here 
and implement them in our 
training and our policy.” 
T ony Jones
GPD Chief SWEET FEET
Elizabeth Mulholland, a 
19-year-old UF anthropol-ogy junior, balances on the feet of T ori Hall, a 20-year-old UF exercise physiology junior, in a “star” Acro-yoga pose on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. Mulholland has practiced yoga for three years and Acro-yoga for about one year, she said. The pair informed students about Acro-yoga, the small group training course UF Recreation & Fitness Cen-ter offers students. T en ses-sions cost $100. Acro-yoga is a combination of acro-batic and aerial yoga poses, which are carried out with a partner. 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
819 W. University Ave
352-872-5655
PROFESSIONAL  
BODY  
MODIFICATIONS,
TATTOO,  &
PIERCING
SERVICES
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF freshmen don’t need to leave 
their dorm rooms to get advice: 
There’s an app for that.
With a few taps, they can ﬁ  nd 
where to eat and how to get around 
through phone applications like Yik 
Yak, Twitter and Facebook.
Recently, Yik Yak had a peek tab 
called “Tips for New Gators.” When students logged on and connected with people in their location, they could send and read anonymous tips.
Olivia Boger, a communications 
associate for Yik Yak, wrote in an email that the feed was created for upperclassmen to share their wis-dom with freshmen. The feed re-
ceived such a positive response that 
Yik Yak is considering to do it again next year, she said.
“It was awesome to see the com-
munity so invested in making sure freshmen have a great ﬁ  rst year,” she said. Boger said two of her favorite ‘yaks’ from “Tips for New Gators” were: “Don’t say you’re a junior by credits, just embrace that you’re a freshman (sic), we secretly all wish we still were (sic)” and “Right over left when doing the Gator chomp. Always.” 
These ‘yaks’ received 209 and 215 
upvotes, similar to liking something on Facebook, respectively. UF ani-mal sciences freshman Zoe Bowden said the tips were really helpful.
“They’ve been doing these fresh-
man tips and telling the freshmen how to not look dumb,” the 18-year-old said.
She said the TransLoc Rider app, 
which tracks the Regional Transit System buses, was also a big help in learning how to get around campus.
Mark Montoya, a UF mechani-
cal engineering freshman, said he’s a fan of using Twitter and Facebook for tips, but he’s found asking upper-classmen for help most enjoyable.
“It’s intimidating at ﬁ  rst, but once 
I see how friendly upperclassmen can be, it becomes easier because you already have the idea that peo-ple can be this nice,” the 18-year-old said.
Rather than using apps, UF adver-
tising senior Taylor Cohen said she tries to answer questions in person for most freshmen in her sorority. 
“I like to help them because I 
liked when people helped me when I was a freshman, and I was lost,” the 21-year-old said. 
Eds. note: [(sic) indicates the 
yaks in this article were not changed when received.]
 UF freshmen yak, upperclassmen answer backFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested a UF student 
early Thursday after he reportedly drove 
on campus under the influence of alcohol.
About 2 a.m. Thursday, Narcis Hamza-
gic, 20, sat with his car’s engine and lights running in a parking lot west of Murphree Hall, according to a police report.
An officer on foot patrol noticed Hamza-
gic’s bloodshot eyes and an open 24-pack of Bud Light in the back seat, according to the report.
The officer asked Hamzagic to perform 
field sobriety exercises and arrested him after he did not perform well.
“There have been numerous incidents 
recently in that stretch of University Ave-nue, so the officers are doing increased pa-trols — having a presence there, especially around 2 a.m. with bar-closing times,” 
UPD Sgt. Jeffrey Lamb said.
The officer also reported a strong smell 
of alcohol radiating from the car and that 
Hamzagic refused to take a breath test.
“When you get a driver’s license in the state of Florida, you’re basically agreeing to provide breath, blood or urine samples,” Lamb said.
Lamb said students arrested on campus 
are generally referred to Student Conduct 
and Conflict Resolution in the Dean of Stu-dents Office. 
Hamzagic is listed as a student in the 
online UF directory.
As of press time, Hamzagic could not be 
reached for comment.
In 2014, Hamzagic received two infrac-
tions for careless driving and one infrac-
tion for a speed violation, according to Ala-chua County court records.
Police arrested Hamzagic on charges of 
DUI and possession of alcohol by a minor.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he was released Thurs-
day afternoon on his own recognizance.UF student arrested for DUI charge on campus
“There have been numerous incidents 
recently in that stretch of University 
Avenue, so the officers are doing 
increased patrols.”
Jeffrey Lamb 
UPD Sgt.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Latest in conservative eﬀ  orts to rewrite history
The topic of public schools has always 
laid heavily on the hearts and minds of this country’s politically active, conser-
vative, evangelical Christians. Conser-
vative ire over public schools has re-
volved mostly around our science curriculum. But in the last year or so, these activists have 
fought for control over how American history 
is taught, with the disturbing aim of control-ling the narrative of American history itself.
This latest incursion started last year when conser-
vatives rose up against the Advanced Placement U.S. 
history curriculum. Accusations against it include its 
focus on the multitude of (often black) skeletons in America’s closet, that it lacked gloriﬁ  cation of U.S. mili-tary endeavors and adequate denunciations of commu-
nism, and that it did not deﬁ  ne America as a Christian 
nation. Broadly, the curriculum was seen to be insuf-ﬁ  ciently patriotic. Legislators in Texas’ neighbor, Okla-homa, nearly voted to ban all AP courses in the state in protest. Presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson said 
students who completed the course would be “ready to 
go sign up for ISIS.” If these politicians believe a mildly critical survey course of American history is enough to send teenagers halfway around the world and into the 
arms of genocidal maniacs, then we have bigger issues 
to worry about than whether Darwin is taught in little Billy’s classroom.
The College Board wound up caving and made the 
changes conservatives demanded of the AP U.S. history 
curriculum. This is a shame. You didn’t exactly have 
to be Cornel West to approve of the old curriculum; its contents were consistent with the interpretation of history accepted by most people, especially the profes-
sional educators and historians who wrote it. Opposi-
tion to the curriculum came, in the words of Pulitzer Prize-winning historian James McPherson, from people “motivated mainly by right-wing politics.”
Not to be outdone, Texas’ school board un-
dertook similar aims with its own history text-
books, which were revealed earlier this week. 
Because Texas is so large, the decisions it makes over textbooks are followed by many, many other states. Their decisions affect stu-
dents all over America.
These textbooks quite literally whitewash 
American history. Race is an issue conser-
vative activists feel is being rewritten (see: the never-
ending insistence that the Civil War was not “about 
slavery”). Like other issues, this position shatters once 
you apply any scrutiny to it whatsoever. See the open-ing line of Mississippi’s declaration of secession: “Our position is thoroughly identiﬁ  ed with the institution of 
slavery.”
But pesky “facts” or “sources” never mattered to 
these activists in the ﬁ  rst place; this is all about reclaim-
ing a narrative they feel they’ve lost to shadowy leftist historians. What we get is a history that makes Ameri-
can slavery look like a guest worker program that had a 
few bad days. Enslaved human beings “ helped turn the wild environment into  proﬁ  table farms.” Sure, forced labor and rape were bad but at least slaves had Chris-
tianity, which gave them “self worth and a hope for 
salvation in this life and the next.”
This is an insult to our nation’s collective intelli-
gence. Even a cursory glance at sources throughout his-tory can tell you the experience of black people in this 
country has been one of harassment, enslavement, un-
equal opportunity and often murder. Presenting it as so is not an attempt to brainwash children and steal their patriotism, but an honest attempt to tell our country’s 
story.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Fridays. This week, like all other weeks, was a week. It had seven 
days, each 24 hours in length, and it probably went by far 
too quickly for your tastes. Like other weeks, it has a Fri-day, which happens to be today. On Fridays, the Alligator usually runs a piece called Darts and Laurels. By that logic, 
it would mean that it’s time for… 
Darts and Laurels
For many who call South Florida their home, Grand Cen-
tral in Miami was THE premiere venue for great shows. 
So when the Miami News Times reported Wednesday that 
Grand Central would be closing its doors for the last time 
on Sept. 26, a twinge of melancholy shot through the Al-ligator office.
Many of us were able to catch several great shows at 
Grand Central, including, but not limited to, of Montreal, Cut Copy and Hundred Waters, who got their start right here in Gainesville. 
Grand Central brought many acts who may not have 
come our way, and for that we’re grateful. For all of the 
great memories, Grand Central gets a LAUREL. 
In a rare double whammy, Grand Central also gets a 
DART for leaving a moderately sized club-shaped hole in 
our hearts.
By the metrics of any reasonable person, the Supreme 
Court’s ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges — which ruled that gay marriage is indeed constitutional — was a long overdue step toward achieving equal rights for LGBTQ+ individuals in the U.S. Other human beings — like Kim Davis, a clerk 
from Rowan County, Kentucky, — feel that allowing same-
sex marriage to happen on their watch is tantamount to the most heinous crimes imaginable.
Despite being ordered by the Supreme Court on Tues-
day to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, Davis remained steadfast in her religious convictions and refused to do so. 
On Thursday, she was found in contempt of court and 
taken into custody. Although we can admire Davis’ dedica-
tion to upholding her moral compass, it doesn’t do much 
good if those morals are narrow-minded and discriminatory in nature. 
Kim Davis gets a sparkling rainbow-colored DART in 
her direction.
Since the conclusion of “The Colbert Report,” Stephen 
Colbert has been keeping a relatively low profile. As the premiere of his first episode as the host of the “Late Show” approaches, Colbert is now making news for a playful feud 
with GOP presidential candidate Jeb Bush. 
Bush, who will be Colbert’s first guest, decided to raffle 
off a ticket to the taping in exchange for a $3 contribution 
to his campaign.
When it emerged that Colbert and his producers had not 
been consulted about whether they were comfortable with Bush monetizing his appearance, Colbert countered with a raffle of his own: For a $3 donation to the Yellow Ribbon Fund — a charity that supports injured service members 
and their families — one lucky winner will be given the VIP 
treatment at the show’s premiere, as well as have the op-portunity to provide Mr. Colbert with a single, non-obscene 
question to ask Bush.
For taking the high road and elevating what could have 
been a petty, inane feud, Colbert gets a LAUREL.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
Fellow Gators,
Welcome back to campus! As the second week of the 
Fall semester comes to a close, most students have settled into their classes, reunited with friends and begun making 
strides toward a great semester.
One way I have made strides 
toward a great semester is by 
joining together with proven student leaders, from both sides 
of the aisle, to create Impact 
Party.
With slating already halfway 
through, we are well underway 
putting together a group of 50 
qualiﬁ  ed Senate candidates to run on our ticket, and we would love for you to be one of them.
After being an active senator 
in the two biggest political bod-ies on this campus, I learned so much about their commitment to students and their passion for 
our university. 
What I also learned was, all 
too often, in the absence of com-
promise this same passion can lead to partisan disputes and 
controversies that chip away 
at the quality of student life on campus. This can do irreparable dam-
age to student relationships with each other, our adminis-trators and our reputation as a 
Student Body.
One of the biggest lessons 
I took away from my previous 
experience is that it was time 
to stop working for a political 
party. 
It was time to start working 
for the students.
Impact Party is a coalition 
of student leaders from both Swamp and Access who are de-termined to end the gridlock and partisanship in Student Govern-
ment. 
The students deserve better 
than party politics.
Join us if you’re determined 
to make your IMPACT at UF.
Visit the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom today from 9 a.m. to 
2 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. to show us how you 
want to make an impact at UF 
and to join us in our efforts to “Move Gators Forward.”
- Chris Boyett 
Impact Party President
One of my classes started the way one 
can only hope, with my professor saying, “This semester, we’re going to have some fun.”
I asked how much fun we could 
have, and my professor, knowing me well 
enough, said, “Robyn, we can pretty much do anything short of creating the next PornHub.” Students chuckled before he continued with, 
“Although, we could probably make a ton of 
money from that.”
I told him, “Don’t be silly, no one pays for porn any-
more!”
It’s true — at least among millennials. Seriously, do 
you know anyone who pays for porn? No, that’s what the Internet is for.
Why pay for something when you can pull it up in 
ﬁ  ve seconds and watch it for free? Gone are the days of 
buying “Playboy” or videos from your local adult store.
But why don’t we pay for porn? I say “we” because 
I’m grouped in with this trend; I’ve watched plenty of 
pornography but have never paid any money for it.
It would be easy enough to pay the $10 or so for a 
pornography subscription. That’s what, a week’s worth of guac for your Chipotle orders?
I’m guessing most of you either pay for a music 
streaming service, think Spotify Premium or Pandora 
Plus; a video streaming service, the likes of Netﬂ  ix or 
Hulu; or both.
Why are we willing to pay money for these subscrip-
tions but not for a porn subscription? If “Netﬂ  ix and chill” is worth an Alexander Hamilton each month, then 
why isn’t “PornHub and jerk off”?
Watching porn for free takes money away from the 
performers, just like illegally downloading Taylor Swift’s 
“Bad Blood” robs her of money. You’re getting a service 
from these people — entertainment, orgasm, what have 
you — but you’re not giving them anything in return.
According to a 2014 article by “Men’s Health,” a 2013 
study by sex-toy retailer Adam and Eve “discovered that just 4 percent of online porn consumers actually pay for it.” 
The same article quoted porn star Veruca James, who 
guessed that most people who pay for porn are older 
than 30, “since anyone under 30 grew up with the In-
ternet. They don’t really remember a time when porn 
wasn’t free.”
So, our generation is basically full of cheap jerks.
Let’s consider the ethics. Why do so few of us pay for 
porn even if it’s something that we regularly watch? I’d argue that as a society, we don’t value porn performers 
as much as we do other types of artists.We feel bad for ripping off Taylor Swift by 
pirating a song, but we don’t feel as bad for 
doing the same to a porn star — apparently 
someone who takes it up the butt for a living 
isn’t worth our money.
But with porn, as with most other things, 
what you pay for is what you get. “Tube” 
sites — PornHub, YouPorn — often have poor 
quality when compared to subscription sites, which feature better quality ﬁ  lm and more en-
thusiastic (and consensual) actors.
It’s the difference between watching a Torrent of 
“Game of Thrones,” which, let’s be honest, is kind of like porn sometimes, and actually watching it on HBO. The quality is markedly better, and you don’t have to visit a seedy website to get your content.
An article by “bitch” magazine equates consumers 
who pay for porn to consumers who care about where 
their food comes from or where their clothing is made. 
It’s all about ethical consumption, as “sites that receive compensation are legally obligated to ﬁ  le a form under U.S. Code 2257, providing an age and legal name, which offers some accountability for the industry.”
Maybe most important to consider, though, is if you 
don’t pay for the porn you watch, how is the industry ever going to make money to produce more content?
Michael Kulich, an adult ﬁ  lm producer, said in the 
“Men’s Health” article that “you have to consider the supply and demand chain. ...If nobody pays for it, no-body is going to produce more of it. So 15 years from now, you’re going to be watching the same scene with the same girl.”
I get that we’re all poor college students and money is 
tight. But think about the future, think about your kids, think about you in 20 years — do you really want to watch the same point-of-view reverse-cowgirl scene for 
the rest of your life?
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Do the right thing — pay for your pornColumn
“Maybe most important to 
consider, though, is if you 
don't pay for the porn you 
watch, how is the industry 
ever going to make money 
to produce more content?”
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
and behavior junior Shixiu Wang 
heard Salcedo’s stories, she said she was moved to tears.
The 20-year-old said this was 
the ﬁ  rst PSU assembly she’d been to, and she plans to attend more.
“I think that (the event) has 
proved to the entire UF commu-nity and Gainesville community that queer is here and they are here to stay,” she said. “And they can empower themselves, and we 
can help them with that to move 
forward.”
At the end of Salcedo’s speech, 
she recorded a video for UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs, where she told him she wanted funds to be al-located to the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity. 
She called upon administrators 
who attended to raise their hands and promise to compel Fuchs to 
give.
With the event’s variety of 
ethnic performances, UF zoology 
freshman JD Graves said she was 
surprised to see the diversity of 
the community she thought of as one group. She didn’t realize the inﬂ  uence of other cultural con-nections on the LGBTQ+ com-
munity.
“There’s a group for every-
body, ” the 24-year-old said.LGBTQ+,  from pg 1It was the 15th assembly
which specializes in gathering 
environmental data, has mostly West Coast clients, but remains 
based in Gainesville for the re-
sources and support the univer-sity has been able to provide.“The Innovation Hub has the 
winning formula, and I think they are proving it through their abil-ity to get grants,” Howell said. “I think it’s going to change the face 
of Gainesville.”
Muir said the ultimate vision is 
for the hub’s graduating startups 
to work with private developers 
to build their companies along 
Southwest Second Avenue in the 12 acres of land known as Inno-vation Square.
“We hope Gainesville will be 
able to retain more of the bright young minds educated at the Uni-versity of Florida,” she said, “and that the community will become 
recognized as a place that is using 
innovation to make great things happen.”INNOVATION,  from pg 1Construction will begin 
as early as 2016
The 19-year-old political sci-
ence and telecommunication 
sophomore said he slated with 
Impact to “carry on with the good 
stuff that Swamp was doing.”
Access president Kalyani Ha-
waldar said she expects most 
people to slate either today or 
Tuesday.
“We’ve had people trickling 
in,” she said. “I’m expecting a 
pretty good turnout.”
Taisha Saintil said she decided 
to slate with Access because it 
gives students more opportunity.“They’re all about equality and 
everyone having a voice,” the 17-year-old UF political science 
freshman said.
Slating continues today from 9 
a.m. to 2 p.m. and Tuesday from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Students must prove their 
residency Thursday by providing either certiﬁ  ed mail delivered by postal service, an Alachua County voter registration card, an origi-nal copy of their lease, an original 
copy of utility or cable bill prior 
to qualifying, an original copy of a promissory note or lease from a fraternity or sorority house, an 
original copy of their homeown-
er’s insurance or an original copy of a warranty deed.
Both parties will notify candi-
dates if they have been chosen by Thursday.SLATING,  from pg 1Slating ends Tuesday“W e hope Gainesville will 
be able to retain more of the 
bright young minds educated 
at the University of Florida, 
and that the community will 
become recognized as a place 
that is using innovation to 
make great things happen.”
Jane Muir
Innovation Hub director
“They’re all about equality and 
everyone having a voice.”
T aisha Saintil
UF political science freshmanFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious at-mosphere. $425/mo includes high speed in-ternet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 352-631-0737    9-11-15-12-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and 
fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility 
allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 
561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   
9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-30-15-29-2
ATTENTION: VET STUDENTS, NURSING, MED STUDENTS. Close to campus, 3BR/2.5BA, new up-grade, 2-car garage + storage shed. $1300/mo. 1259 SW 21st Ave.  352-378-1221 / 352-871-4252    9-9-15-5-2
● HOUSE FOR RENT - 2927 SW 1st Ave ●
Directly across from UF Golf Coursel
4-5BR/3BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Only $1,775/month
No application fee, all pets ok.
352-258-0025
9-11-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must 
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
● 20 PIECE WILD TURKEY DECANTER 
COLLECTION (3 miniatures go with col-
lection for free.) $1500. ● VALUABLE 
PLAYBOY MAGAZINES - 2000 - 2012 . $1500.  Call Lloyd at 352-262-4390.    9-10-5-10AuctionSept 9 at 1 pm2727 Parrish Rd, CocoaOff Range Rd.Hvy Equip, Trucks, ToolsVisit www.soldfor.com for detailsCliff ShulerAB#9 Auctioneers Liquidators AU#14     9-4-1-10
LIVE & ONLINE
PUBLIC AUCTIONThurs, Sept 10th at 10am13800 NW 14 St, Ste 130, Sunrise, FL 33323Ultra High-end Gaming/Development Computers, Duel Intel I7, I5, Xenon CPU’s, Game Consoles, 400+ Monitors, Large Flat Screen TV’s, Printers, Computer Equipment, Furniture, Fixtures, Cubicles, Electronics, iPhones, Tablets, Office Supplies & much more!Preview: 09/09 10-4pm15%-18%BP Live/OnlineAssignment for the Benefit of CreditorsDarkside Game Studios, Inc.Case #CACE 15011382-07
Shadows In Darkness, Inc.
Case #CACE 15011390-07Butler & Hosch, P.A.Case #2015-CA-004488-Owww.moeckerauctions.com (800) 840-BIDSAB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin   9-4-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-112For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11  
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",
125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, 
ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.
CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
2007 HYUNDAI ENTOURAGE
Like new, 6-cyl, Front-wheel drive, gas, 115,800 mi, gold, clean title. Nice, extra clean, ready to go! Leather, sunroof, DVD, full capt chairs, 
running-board, loaded. $6500. 352-226-7251    
9-10-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-
nized person for growing business. Automobile 
and customer service experience a plus. Send 
apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     
9-4-15-10-14LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course 
creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred.
Email resume to:    drpohani@gmail.com     
9-4-15-5-14
Consign-a-Rama
Gainesville's newest college and juniors 
consignment sale! Positions available, visit 
www.consign-a-rama.com for info
9-4-15-5-14
P/T ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Holy 
Trinity Church. Strong oral/written commu-
nications skills including editing required as 
well as working knowledge & experience with MS Office Suite and social media. Must have positive attitude & be a team player. 
Direct inquiries to rhpowell43@gmail.com.   
9-4-15-5-1411Motorcycles/
Mopeds14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
ACROSS
1 Big name in
arcades
5 Show pride
9 Speck
13 A or B, in
preparations
14 Hard to watch
15 Baseball
commissioneremeritus Bud
17 Affectionate
moniker for aholy river?
19 Entry
mechanism
20 Less prosaic21 Canceled (out)23 __-Picone:
women’s fashionlabel
24 Have regrets27 High court
delivery
29 Storm dir.30 Job application
ID
31 Duffer’s
nineteenth-holelitany?
34 Eponymous
physicist James
36 Star __: Asian
spice
37 Where some
climbers take
smoking breaks?
42 “What’s in __?”
43 Town in a 1945
Pulitzer-winningnovel
44 Highlights of the
hippo ballet in“Fantasia”?
47 WWII female50 “You’re the __
That I Want”:“Grease” song
51 Nursery
purchase
52 1960s
educationalexperiment
55 Spirit57 22-Down sound59 Vital vessel60 Amazon
transaction, e.g.
62 Milliseconds?
65 Port array
66 “Amarantine”
musician
67 Kick back
68 With 6-Down,
savings69 It contains
diamonds
70 Deco designer
DOWN
1 “SNL” staples
2 Loses, in a way3 Plant manager’s
domain?
4 Clarence Odbody,
in a Capra classic
5 Cookout item6 See 68-Across7 Author Haley8 Whitman’s “Song
of __”
9 Braying beast
10 Cabeza, across
the Pyrenees
11 Tapenade
discard
12 Lombardy dialect16 Points of origin
18 NYSE trader
22 It may be a toy25 Fluish symptoms26 Doofus28 Procter &
Gamble brand
32 Sic on33 Fascinated by34 Entrance support35 “Watch how
wonder unfolds”snacks37 Said “Pretty
please” to, say
38 Harmoniously39 Determined
countenance
40 Fall setting41 Foundation
45 Exultation
46 Found the right
words for, maybe
47 More affable48 Swear49 Unsullied53 Angkor __:
Cambodiantemple
54 Wavy pattern56 Organization
name selectedover “Buffalos” ina close 1868vote
58 Yearn
61 63-Down hrs.
63 Tumblr HQ site64 Jaw
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/04/1509/04/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 4, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
P/T cleaner needed for offices,apartments, 
and homes. Must have own transportation and be able to pass a background/reference/drug test..weekly pay and hrly rate of 8.25/hr..if interested please call 352-214-0868    9-10-5-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring deli and bar help. Must have reliable trans-portation. Weekend availability required. Applications accepted at the 2327 N W 13th Street location.    9-8-15-2-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    9-4-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new ca-reer? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghiway.com EOE    9-4-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    9-4-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator 
Career! We Offer Training and Certifications 
Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and 
Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA 
Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    0-4-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
EDITING PAPERS AND DISSERTATIONS--ADJUNCT PROFESSOR AND NATIONAL AUTHOR whyland99@yahoo.com; http://whyland99.wix.com/jefferson    9-4-15-5-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? 
Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    
9-4-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgRevolutionary new natural coldsore treat-
ment completely dries outbreaks within 1-3 days. Instant relief. Buy 1-get-1 Free: Coupon xU83F1G Expires 09/07www.herpacor.com/xu83f1g    9-4-15-4-16
Attention  Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.
40 Pills + 4 FREE for only  $99. 
No Prescription Needed!
Discreet Shipping.
Call Now  1-800-224-0305    9-4-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE DANCE CLASS - CARDIO-A-GO-GO
This Thursday, Sept 10th, 6pm
The Lingerie Co. - 2614 SW 34th St. Call
today to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    
9-10-15-4-21
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 20 Event Notices 23 Rides 15 Services 16 Health Services
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Headline
Story description Pg#FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Student tickets for Saturday's 
football game against New Mexico State have been sold out, the school announced Thursday. Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports or online at www.alligator.org/sports for updates on UF athletics. Florida softball assistant coach honored
Florida softball assistant coach Jennifer Roacha has been named the 2015 
National Fastpitch Coaches Association Division I Assistant Coach of the Year, the NFCA announced Thursday. Roacha helped the Gators to their 
second-consecutive national title in June. A new football season, a new 
Florida head football coach, and most importantly, a new 
set of the alligatorSports Brand 
Picks Column.
The Jim McElwain era gets under-
way on Saturday under the lights at the Swamp against New Mexico State.
But more importantly, our annual 
set of game-picking and name-bashing 
returns at a whole new level.
Debating the first game of the week 
— tonight’s matchup between No. 4 Baylor and Southern Methodist Univer-
sity — is alligatorSports editor Graham Hall and Alligator managing/online editor Jordan McPherson.
Baylor (-36) will beat the 
Mustangs because...
Is this really a debate? Putting Bay-
lor — one of the most explosive of-fenses in the country — up against a defense that gave up nearly 500 yards a game just last season? This is the per-
fect game for the Bears to ease quarter-
back Seth Russell into the starting role and allow tailback Shock Linwood to light up the Mustangs.
-Jordan McPherson
SMU (+36) will beat the Bears 
because...
OK, so Baylor has won the last 11 
meetings between the two programs, but who cares? It’s a new season. Matt Davis, a former Texas A&M commit, will look to reboot a Mustangs offense 
that was abysmal in 2014. If Florida 
fans thought the Gators’ offense was bad, consider the fact that SMU scored a total of SIX passing touchdowns all of last season.  There’s a lot of unknowns 
— new coach Chad Morris is a first-
year head coach — but who knows if Baylor’s Seth Russell can replicate the success Bryce Petty had. I think SMU 
scores at least a pair of touchdowns 
and makes the Bears sweat a little bit. 
-Graham HallPICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network/95.3 FM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
Alligator File Photo
Kelvin T aylor celebrates during Florida's 38-20 win against Georgia on Nov. 1 at Everbank Field in Jacksonville. T aylor ran for 
565 yards and six touchdowns last season.  
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
It’s the calm before the storm for Florida 
head coach Jim McElwain, and the nerves will 
surely be kicking in soon.
The Gators and the so-called “Jim McEl-
wain era” begins on Saturday night against New Mexico State.
But McElwain has seen this story play out 
before. When he was hired at Colorado State in 2011, the Rams dubbed his hiring as “a bold new era for CSU football.” 
That era started out on a good note as Colo-
rado State beat in-state rival Colorado 22-17 back on Sept. 1, 2012.
More than three years later, McElwain will 
try to repeat the success he had in his first 
game, but this time as the coach of the Gators 
as they go up against the Aggies.
But while others may think the preparation 
process is different at Colorado State than it is at Florida, UF’s first-year coach doesn't agree.  
“You have to be fundamentally sound in 
your preparation, it doesn’t matter where you’re at,” McElwain said. “The unknown of the first game, it doesn’t matter what year it is or where you’re at, there’s always some anxi-ety because you really aren’t sure.”
On paper, New Mexico State doesn’t bring 
a lot to the table. Doug Martin’s team went 2-10 last year. However, quarterback Tyler Rogers threw for 2,779 yards and 19 touch-downs, albeit against 23 interceptions last sea-son. 
Running back Larry Rose III was 25th in 
the nation last year with 1,102 yards on the 
ground while rushing for nine touchdowns.
“They’re going to play up-tempo,” McEl-
wain said. “Do some things to try to create 
some explosive plays on a fast tempo so that’ll be really good for us as we get used to what a lot of people are doing today.”
The Aggies do return three of their five 
starting offensive lineman from a group that allowed just 10 sacks, third fewest in the na-tion last year.
On the defensive side of the ball, New Mex-
ico State was the worst team in the country in two categories — rush defense and sacks. 
They allowed 308.75 yards per game on 
the ground while having just five sacks in 12 games. The Aggies also allowed 40 rushing touchdowns, which was tied for 126th out of the 128 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivi-sion.Junior running back Kelvin Taylor and 
freshmen running backs Jordan Scarlett and Jordan Cronkrite will be licking their chops to get a chance to run through the Aggies’ defen-sive line.
Taylor, however, sees New Mexico State as 
the first test in a crucial season for him.
“I really don’t know about their defense,” 
Taylor said, “but any team I go against this year I’m going to feel like I can have a great game. I’m just going to go out there, stick with my plans, trust my offensive lineman and ev-erything else should work out for itself.”
While the rush defense wasn't good, the 
Aggies were stingy against the pass last season as they allowed only 174.5 passing yards per game — good enough for sixth in the nation.     
McElwain will have the chance to make his 
mark on the Florida football program against the Aggies.  
McElwain had trouble sleeping before 
scrimmages during Fall camp, and admitted his sleep schedule gets worst for him the night 
before games.
But for McElwain, the restless nights and 
anxiety are things that come with the territory 
of being a coach.
“I don’t ever sleep real good on Fridays be-
fore games,” McElwain said. “I guess the day I probably sleep well on that night might be the day we get the heck out of this business and go do something else.” UF opens season against New Mexico State
McElwain will begin UF careerNow onto the picks!
Leading the charge with the 
picks is alligatorSports editor Gra-
ham “Whoops” Hall, who watches women’s basketball to make him-self feel good after realizing how 
pathetic he is at life. Hey Graham, 
why don’t you watch something more entertaining than a WNBA game? How about Chess? 
Next up, is Luis “Golden Re-
triever fetish” Torres, who can’t stop showing the entire ofﬁ  ce pic-tures of Golden Retriever puppies. 
Hey Luis, the ﬁ  rst 1,000 photos 
looked the same, let’s cool it and maybe do some work. 
Joining the picks is alligatorS-
ports staff writer Graham “What’s a deadline?” Hack, who takes up-wards of six hours to write a 400-word sidebar. Hey Hack, live up to your last name and churn out a story.
The lone returner from the al-
ligatorSports group is managing/online editor Jordan “Numbers savant” McPherson, who loves ﬁ  ll-
ing his articles with stats people 
ignore. People don’t read football stories to feel like they’re back in Algebra class, Jordan. They ﬂ  ock 
to read about bone-crunching tack-
les!
Returning after a ﬁ  ve-year hia-
tus is former alligatorSports editor 
and current Palm Beach Post re-
porter Anthony “Miami wannabe” Chiang, who can’t introduce him-self without lying about his birth-
place. He’s from Kendall, a suburb 
in unincorporated Dade County. Just throw away your credentials and take the batteries out of your recorder, Anthony. The jig is up. 
Returning for  third stint at the 
picks column is the Orlando Sen-
tinel’s Edgar “Here’s the thing” 
Thompson, who seemingly begins every counter-argument with an absolute. Well, here’s the thing Ed-gar, Mark Long usually wins most 
of your guys’ arguments. And yes, 
we say that solely to anger you. 
Gator Country’s Nick “Biogene-
sis” de la Torre returns after ﬁ  nish-ing second-to-last in 2014. How’d you get so big, Nick? Was it by lift-ing that ego out of bed every morn-ing? What a tough workout. 
And last but not least is 
247sports.com’s Thomas “Gator Dater” Goldkamp, who let his lat-
est Tinder match — UF mascot 
Alberta — make his picks for him this week. Swiping right never felt so good, did it Goldkamp?FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
PICKS,  from pg 14JUST SOME HACK
Buckle your 
seatbelts  and hold on tight, be-cause the 
best ride in sports is ﬁ  nally back.
That ride would 
be college football, which got underway Thursday night and gets in full swing on Saturday with a full slate of games.
From the pageantry to the 
traditions, the rivalries to the upsets, every Fall Saturday feels like a carnival mixed with reality 
TV — except actually real.
And as a sports fan, it really 
doesn’t get any better.
Unlike other sports, every 
game in college football is essen-tially an elimination game.
Just ask Baylor and TCU, who 
both ﬁ  nished last season at 11-1 
with a share of the Big 12 cham-pionship and were still left out of 
the playoff because of one loss. 
No other sport can say that.
March Madness is great, but 
everyone forgets about the four months prior of meaningless reg-
ular season games.
And an NFL team can lose 
a quarter of its games and still 
be considered a favorite for the championship.
But college football is an 
edge-of-your-seat roller coaster from the opening week to the ﬁ  -nal snap, and nobody can afford to have a bad day. 
And even if your team is out 
of title contention by mid-Octo-ber, it still feels just as important to make sure your rivals have a bad day — some-times it feels even better.
Also, there is 
nothing more unpre-dictable than a team of 18- to 22-year-old 
football players.
Look at Florida last season, 
which went from getting em-
barrassed on homecoming by 
Missouri 42-13 to embarrassing then-No. 11 Georgia 38-20 two weeks later.
Or go back to the 2013 sea-
son, when six teams in the pre-season AP top 10 didn’t ﬁ  nish in the top 10 at season’s end, while two weren’t even ranked in the 
ﬁ  nal poll. 
And at the same time, four 
teams that began that season 
unranked ﬁ  nished in the top 10, including Auburn, who lost to 
Florida State in the champion-
ship game, and two more who 
ﬁ  nished in the top ﬁ  ve.
And heck, college football 
even does pregame better.
Whether you love tailgating 
hours before kickoff, welcoming the team on to the ﬁ  eld with any number of iconic chants or wak-ing up to College Gameday, it’s difﬁ  cult to not get excited long before the ﬁ  rst touchdown.
So kick back on Saturday and 
bask in it’s glory. College foot-ball is back, and for the next four months, all is right with the world.The college football thrill ride 
is back, and it's about time
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
NMST vs. UF (-37)  UF  UF  NMST  UFUL vs. AUBURN (-11)  AU  AU  AU  ULTEXAS vs. ND (-10)  ND  TX  ND  TXASU vs. TAMU (-3.5)  ASU  ASU  ASU  ASUWISC. vs. 'BAMA (-11)  BAMA  BAMA  WISC  BAMAOSU (-12) vs. VT  OSU  OSU  OSU  OSUULM vs. UGA (-35)  UGA  UGA  UGA  UGAWKY (-2) vs. VANDY  VANDY  WKU  WKU  WKU
  ET  AC  ND  TG
NMST vs. UF (-37)  UF  UF  UF  UFL 'VILLE vs. AUBURN (-11)  AU  AU  AU  AU
TEXAS vs. ND (-10)  ND  ND  ND                   TX
ASU vs. TAMU (-3.5)  ASU  ASU  TAMU  ASUWISC. vs. 'BAMA (-11)  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA  WISCOSU (-12) vs. VT  OSU  OSU  OSU  OSUULM vs. UGA (-35)  UGA  ULM  UGA  UGAWKY (-2) vs. VANDY  WKU  WKU  VANDY  WKU
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2416   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
3   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015
