TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Meet the Editors:
Learn about the new editors for the semester, pg 7-9.  
Lucky’s Market has its soft opening today:
The organic market also has a ceremony Wednesday, pg 4. Jeff Driskel to transfer to Louisiana Tech
He will be able to play immediately, pg. 20. For a full 
photo gallery from 
Florida’s win against 
East Carolina in the 
Birmingham Bowl, 
see Page 31.
71/39
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 15CROSSWORD  19SPORTS 23
VOLUME 109 ISSUE 74 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Back from Birmingham
Hannah Bergstrom (left), a 21-year-old UF music education senior, helps Jeff Cutaio, a 22-year-old UF alumnus, pack a set of drums into its storage case. Members of the Gator Band, the pair was moving instruments used at the Birmingham Bowl into a storage trailer.
STATE
MELISSA MIHM and   KATHRYN VARN
Alligator Staff Writers
Starting today, same-sex couples 
can legally marry in Florida.
U.S. District Judge Robert Hin-
kle, who presides over Washington 
County in the Panhandle, ruled Thursday that Florida’s ban on gay marriage is unconstitutional and ordered that all counties in the state 
must issue marriage licenses to 
same-sex couples beginning today.
Hinkle’s ruling requires that all 
marriage-license applicants follow the ruling, even if they “are not 
parties to this case,” he wrote in an 
order.
Applicants wishing to obtain a 
marriage license can show up at 8 
a.m. at the Alachua County Clerk of Courts, located at 201 E. University Ave., said Alachua County Clerk 
Buddy Irby. The process takes about 10 minutes if the applicant has the proper identiﬁ  cation.
During a conference call with 
county clerks, Irby said the attor-ney for the Florida Association of County Clerks and Comptrollers Association recommended that 
clerks go forward with the ruling.“As far as he could tell, we now 
have the approval to issue the li-
censes,” Irby said.
He added the ﬁ  rst few couples 
plan on arriving at the courthouse when it opens and expects a few 
more to trickle in later in the day.
Terry Fleming, a Pride Com-
munity Center of North Central 
Florida Board of Directors member, 
said because many gay couples left Florida to wed prior to the reform, he doesn’t expect a large turnout in 
Alachua County. Still, the co-presi-dent expects a steady ﬂ  ow of same-sex couples tying the knot today.
“Justice won,” he said. “It’s been 
a long time coming.”
The center will hold a commu-
nity celebration today from 6 to 8 p.m. at its headquarters, 3131 NW 
13th St. Suite 62. Same-sex couples can marry in Fla. starting today
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
UF saw a slight decrease in on-campus 
theft during the 2014 Winter Break.
Of the 72 reported incidents, University 
Police spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said there 
were 12 thefts from Dec. 15 to Monday. Five 
of the thefts were items stolen from inside 
of buildings and two were items taken from cars. There were also four bikes stolen and one other miscellaneous theft, he said.
“Most of the thefts were items left inad-
vertently unattended,” he said. “It was good 
that we did not have any vehicles stolen like 
last year.”
During the 2013 Winter Break, there were 
13 thefts, which included eight thefts from buildings, two from cars and three other thefts — but no bikes were stolen, he said. There were also nine vehicle thefts commit-ted by people who were later arrested.
Barber said students should try to take 
their bikes and vehicles home during breaks if possible. They should also use hard locks instead of cable locks and park in well-lit ar-eas.
“Do not leave your property unattended,” 
Barber said. “Keep your property within your possession at all times.”Fewer thefts 
this Winter Break than last year
 IT WAS A CONSTRUCTION AC-
CIDENT.
ALEX HARRIS
Alligator Staff Writer aharris@alligator.org
Cars and pedestrians on campus had to 
take detours after a gas leak on Museum Road that began at about 2:30 p.m. Mon-
day.
Construction workers accidentally 
struck the gas line while working on a wa-ter line issue on Museum Road, said Uni-versity Police spokesman Maj. Brad Barber.
No buildings were evacuated, but trafﬁ  c 
was diverted from the area, which spanned 
Museum Road from Gale Lemerand Drive to Center Drive.
The smell of gasoline permeated the sur-
rounding area, including directly in front of 
the New Physics Building.
By 7 p.m. the damage was repaired, but 
the road remained closed until 9:30 p.m.
“Crews worked diligently throughout 
the afternoon and repaired the damage 
early evening,” Barber said.Gas leak on campus diverts trafﬁ  c, students“Keep your property within your 
possession at all times.”
Brad Barber
University Police spokesmanNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
64/49PARTLY 
CLOUDY
61/38PARTLY 
CLOUDY
49/35PARTLY
CLOUDY
63/29PARTLY 
CLOUDY
71/39
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.VOLUME 109 ISSUE 74
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva    photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle @alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Kristin Letsch    
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Trevor Brown, Elena Chow,    
  Amanda Fernandez, Eva Sailly,   
  Ian Shuker, Gabriel Skura,    
  Marcella Tortorici,Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fabiola Lara, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Aubrey Stolzenberg tells the Sacramento Bee that 
the family already has a full guest cottage on their property. Because of that, authorities say the treehouse’s full kitchen, 
and mattress, must go.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.NEWS BRIEFS
Woman sues over use of her 
school photo on novelty flaskSANTA FE, N.M. — A New Mexico woman is suing a nov-elty products maker over a flask 
that includes her likeness and 
the phrase, “I’m going to be the most popular girl in rehab.”The Santa Fe New Mexican re-ports Veronica Vigil alleges in federal court that Anne Taintor Inc. obtained and used her high school graduation picture from 1970 without her permission.
The lawsuit says the company 
based in Brooklyn, New York, then defamed Vigil by linking her image to a product that makes light of substance abuse.Court documents say the Chimayo, New Mexico resident is an active church member and doesn’t consume alcohol or 
drugs.
The lawsuit seeks an unspeci-fied amount of compensatory and punitive damages.A spokeswoman for Anne Taintor Inc. said the company does not comment on pending litigation.
Police: Naked man broke into 
homes, used hot tubKEIZER, Ore. — Police near Salem, Oregon, say they ar-rested a naked man after he broke into two homes, drank booze and used a hot tub at one of them.Officers received a 911 call early 
Sunday from a woman who 
was house-sitting in Keizer when she was awakened by noises coming from the laundry room.As she went to check it out, the laundry room door slammed, so she grabbed a knife and called police and her husband.
Police found the burglar in-
side, naked, and arrested him without incident. Investigators determined that he climbed in through a back window after removing a screen.They also noticed that screens had been removed from win-dows at a neighbor’s home. 
Police say the suspect had bur-glarized that home, drinking the homeowner’s alcohol and 
using the hot tub and shower.
Police trying to solve Christmas 
tree ring mysteryGERMANTOWN, Wis. — A Wisconsin police department is trying to figure out who left a diamond ring on its 
Christmas tree.
Germantown Police Chief Peter Hoell posted a note on his department’s Facebook page Saturday, asking if anyone knew where the ring came from.He says the diamonds are real. Police think someone in-
tentionally placed the ring on 
a branch of the tree in the po-lice department’s lobby.For the past five weeks, the department invited people to bring their children to deco-rate the tree and get a stuffed animal in return. During that time, someone put the ring on 
the tree but left no explana-
tion.
Officials tell family to scale 
back luxe treehouseGRANITE BAY, Calif. — Northern California au-thorities are telling a Placer County couple to prune back 
their deluxe treehouse.
Mike and Pat Splinter’s 500-square-foot treehouse features a full kitchen, a bath-room and all the plumbing. The Animal Planet cable net-work highlighted the struc-ture last month in the show “Treehouse Masters.” The 
episode featured the Splinter 
family making hard candy for Christmas in the treehouse kitchen.But Placer County deputy planning director E.J. Ivaldi 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar
1
1312111098765432
Oaks Veterinary Hospital 
229 NW 75 th St. | 562.7172 | oaksvet.com
Northwood Oaks Veterinary Hospital 
5331 NW 34 th Blvd. | 505.8574 | nwoaksvet.comSee our Website or Facebook page for additional specials
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and ﬁ  nal printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval conﬁ  rms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGESWe also offer 12 month payment plans starting at $12.95 per month. Our 
wellness plans feature $25 additional sick examinations during the year 
and unlimited nail trims. We customize our treatment plans based on your 
pet’s age, breed, and individual needs.
Student Boarding Special* Save 10% on  
boarding with annual wellness plans .
Professional grooming also available
*With Valid Student ID from UF or SFC. Blackout dates apply  for 
boarding  special. Valid for new Silver, Gold, and Platinum Wellness Plans .Student Canine Package* - Only $125
 Comprehensive 
Physical  Examination
 Fecal Flotation
 Heartworm Test Bordetella Vaccination
 Deluxe Bath which 
includes a nail trim, ear 
cleaning and anal gland 
expression
Northwood is open until 8pm Tues. & Thurs. and 5:30 pm on Sat. to better serve youTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
4, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Welcome to the ‘Ville
Laura Baied (left), an 18-year-old UF chemistry freshman, Meriel Engrand, a student at Cornell University, and 
Kyle Hesse, an 18-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology freshman, move Baied’s belongings into Buckman Hall on Sunday afternoon. Baied described her break as marathonic, spanning 300 miles.
 IT WAS DAYS AFTER THE FERGUSON PROJ-ECT WAS FINISHED.
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Days after the 34th Street Wall was painted black and 
stenciled last month, the “Gainesville is Ferguson” mu-
ral project was defaced.
Jonathan Waring, president of UF Students for a 
Democratic Society, said the wall was painted to bring 
awareness to the protests over the decisions not to indict 
the ofﬁ  cers who killed Michael Brown and Eric Garner.
It was also a general message to the community that 
all lives matter, the 20-year-old UF psychology sopho-more said.
Shortly after the mural went up, red-, white- and 
blue-painted lines were drawn through all the messag-es, said Nailah Summers, founding member of human rights organization Dream Defenders and its Gainesville 
chapter. There was also something written to the effect 
of “thug life = dead MF,” she said.
“I’m not sure of the intentions of the person or people who vandalized it, but I think it’s hilarious that an act of hate was disguised under patriotic colors,” she said. “Do people forget that African Americans are in fact Ameri-can? That this country was built through the violently forced and free labor of enslaved black people? That acts of protest are inherently American?”
Summers added she was unsurprised it was covered.“The expression of grief and public outcry by black 
youth across the country makes so many other people uncomfortable, makes them defensive,” she said. “And after all, we are in the South.”
Waring said he doesn’t think a group was involved 
because of how small the actual defacement was but be-lieves it was a planned response.
“I think it’s disgusting, honestly,” he said. “I think 
it takes a real heartless person to deface a painting that is just calling for justice for murdered individuals. The 
people who did it should be ashamed of themselves.”
Waring said he is not aware of any plans for the wall 
to be repainted, and as of now, no protests have been 
planned.
“I’m not sure about further plans to repaint the wall,” 
Summers said, “but I’d deﬁ  nitely be there if it were to be painted again.”34th Street Wall mural vandalizedCARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer
A Colorado-based organic 
grocery store is opening its 
doors in Gainesville this week.
Lucky’s Market, a full-line 
grocery store located at 1409 
NW 23rd Ave., is having its 
soft opening today. A ceremo-ny with live music, free give-aways and food samples from 
local vendors will be held at 
10 a.m. Wednesday, said store 
director Garris Matthews.
This is the store’s ﬁ  rst loca-
tion in Florida, although the 
franchise plans on expanding 
throughout the state, he said. 
The store will be open from 7 
a.m. to 10 p.m. every day.
“It’s a unique grocery 
store, offering high quality, 
affordable, local, natural and 
traditionally crafted foods,” 
he said. “We’re making it a re-
ally comfortable setting.”
Although the store mainly 
offers organic food, it also of-
fers a variety of conventional 
food, too.
“We don’t want to conﬁ  ne 
people to that,” Matthews 
said. “It’s a one-stop shop for 
everybody.”
Matthews said UF attract-
ed the chain to Gainesville as Lucky’s lends itself to con-
sumers who are conscious of what they eat and how food 
affects the body.
The company is passion-
ate about giving back to the community and has donat-ed $25,000 to Bread of The Mighty Food Bank and Grace Marketplace. Matthews said there will also be a $2,000 do-nation to a voted-upon indi-vidual or community group each month.
Ward’s Supermarket, a 
family-owned, organic gro-cery store located about half a mile from Lucky’s, is prepar-ing for the added competition, said owner Trish Ward.
“It is certainly a concern for 
us any time a new store opens, 
especially one that’s as close 
as this is to us,” Ward said. “We’ve done everything we can to prepare for it.”
Ward said she hopes a re-
freshed building, new parking lot and loyalty will keep cus-tomers stopping by.
She said the 64-year-old es-
tablishment is the only local, 
independent grocery store left 
in the city.
“Ward’s has an atmo-
sphere that’s very hard to duplicate anywhere else … a very friendly, warm atmo-sphere that we created with a lot of family members and happy employees,” Ward said.
Matthews said Ward’s is 
doing a great job of promoting the idea that good food leads to good health.
“We’re excited about being 
in the same city as those really doing what we’re doing,” he said.Lucky’s Market 
soft opening today
“It’s a unique grocery 
store, offering high 
quality, affordable, local, 
natural and traditionally 
crafted foods.”
Garris Matthews
store directorTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
1
1312111098765432
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Start of Spring
Timothy Bryan, a 35-year-old employee of the UF Physical Plant Divi-
sion, uses a leaf blower on Monday afternoon to clear Buckman Drive of leaves.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local woman 
Wednesday after ofﬁ  cers said she robbed a gas 
station and fought with employees.
According to an arrest report, Cheryl Renee 
Pierce, 33, walked into the Chevron located at 
1024 W. University Ave. at about 2:45 p.m. then 
walked behind the counter. When the clerk and an employee asked her to leave, Pierce agreed, but took $187 in cash that was on the counter. 
When the two clerks tried to stop her, Pierce 
pushed them and continued to walk out, accord-ing to the report. When a third clerk arrived, she 
began punching and pushing the clerks.
Ofﬁ  cers arrested Pierce on charges of robbery, 
aggravated battery and larceny. As of press time, 
she remained at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of 
a $100,000 bond.
    
Gainesville Police arrested a man Thursday af-
ter ofﬁ  cers said he stabbed his father in the neck.
According to an arrest report, Wendell La-
mar Wright, 32, started ﬁ  ghting with his father 
at about 2:10 a.m. because his father refused to allow someone to stay overnight at their home, located at 1035 SW Ninth St. According to the re-port, Wright grabbed a knife, stabbed his dad in 
the neck and ran from the apartment. Police then 
found him hiding in the bushes.
Ofﬁ  cers arrested Wright on a domestic ag-
gravated assault charge. As of press time, he remained at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $250,000 bond.
    Gainesville Police arrested an Alachua man 
Thursday evening who ofﬁ  cers said robbed a Kangaroo gas station.
According to an arrest report, Christopher 
Charles Pugh, 31, entered the gas station located at 2320 SW Archer Road and appeared to ﬁ  ll out a 
lottery ticket. He then showed the clerk the ticket, 
which read “Put the money in the bag."
The clerk placed $69.45 in a plastic bag and 
handed it to Pugh, who then ordered the clerk to exit the store in front of him and act as if she was smoking a cigarette.
Police later found Pugh at 2300 Old Archer 
Road with the plastic bag containing the cash.
Ofﬁ  cers arrested Pugh on a robbery charge. He 
remained as of press time at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $125,000 bond.
    
Police arrested a Gainesville man Sunday af-
ternoon after he broke into his neighbor’s house.
Carnell Hawthorne, 30, entered Samuel Keith’s 
house, located at 1218 NW 44th Ave., at about 5:30 p.m. through an unlocked door, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report. Keith asked Haw-thorne if he was OK and Hawthorne responded, 
“I’m home, I’m coming in.”
Keith pushed Hawthorne out of his house, ac-
cording to the report. Hawthorne then hit Keith’s 
car and ran to his own home.
When police arrived, Hawthorne asked for a 
second reading of his rights before telling the of-ﬁ  cer that he was Jesus and had come from the fu-ture, according to a report.
Ofﬁ  cers charged him with burglary and resist-
ing an ofﬁ  cer without violence. He remained as of press time at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $30,000 bond.Police roundup: Battery, larceny; 
assault; robbery; resisting arrestReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
1,453 TOTAL VOTES84% YES
16% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Are you looking for-
ward to 2015?Today’s question: Did you watch “The Interview”? New year, new 
opportunities at 
the Alligator
Man, does it feel good to leave 2014 behind. 
While it may have been a good year on an individ-
ual level, it was a year full of tragedies and frustrating 
turns of events.
Last year will be remembered for horriﬁ  c plane crashes, re-
newed tensions with Russia, Florida’s failure to legalize medical 
marijuana and the start of Iraq War Three — and that’s without even getting into the Gators’ 2014 football season.
So it’ll be nice to cut all the baggage loose and look ahead 
to the next 12 months with the kind of optimism only a blank calendar and a gallon of champagne can bring. It’s great that nothing truly terrible has happened yet, and it’s also the start of a new semester which gives us a fresh start at school.
And hey, we won a bowl game against East Carolina Uni-
versity over the weekend while Florida State University’s two-season winning streak was ﬁ  nally vanquished. Based on those, 2015 is already looking a lot better than its predecessor.
With that, we’d like to welcome you back — back to nights 
spent agonizing in the library, to professors whose weird quirks leave you ﬁ  lled with awe and to the scent of Balls as it drifts through Midtown. 
We know deep down that you’ve missed all of it very much. 
But, dear readers, we at the Alligator have missed you even 
more. We’ve missed you so much it hurts, and we’re really hap-
py to have you back in Gainesville.
Yes, it’s nice to have everyone back in town and to see 
Gainesville thicken up to the normal level of rambunctiousness. 
It got eerily quiet for a while there.
And now that you’re here we must ask: Are you opinionat-
ed? Can you express your opinions in a thoughtful and interest-ing way? Does the idea of having your name printed in ink and seen by thousands of adoring readers give you a warm, fuzzy feeling inside?
If you found yourself answering “yes” to any of those ques-
tions: Congratulations! You probably have what it takes to be a 
columnist for the Alligator.
As a columnist, you’d write one column a week about a 
topic that’s relevant, timely and — most importantly — some-
thing you care about. Columns can be anywhere from 450 to 750 words long and may cover any topic as long as you don’t slan-der anybody. 
We’d also like to add that if anybody would like to speak  his 
or her mind in the pages of the Alligator without committing to a full-time position as a columnist, feel free to send in a guest 
column. We’d be happy to have it.
So if you’re interested in writing a column for the Alligator, 
send an email to opinions@alligator.org with a resume, cover 
letter, writing samples and a brief description of yourself and your political persuasions. Viewpoints of every kind are accept-able.
With that, we hope that you submit to be a columnist and  
you have an enlightening semester and happy new year.The new year has just begun and Uber is already fac-
ing a fresh wave of criticism and complaints.
I can’t say I’m surprised. In 2014, the increasingly 
popular ridesharing service has battled an avalanche of negative press and citywide bans across the country and world.
Upset customers recently posted pictures on social me-
dia of their costly receipts due to surge pricing on New Year’s Eve, furiously declaring that they will never ride Uber again. 
In November, an Uber senior executive was reportedly 
caught suggesting that the company should hire opposi-tion researchers to dig up dirt on journalists who criticize Uber. 
The company is also facing numerous accusations of 
aggressive and questionable business practices, including paying employees to sabotage drivers from other ride-sharing services.
I understand the concerns about Uber. The company 
has undoubtedly made some mistakes since it launched ﬁ  ve years ago and will likely continue to struggle with its image for awhile. But despite all of its faults and problems with leadership, we have to acknowledge that Uber pro-vides an innovative and extremely convenient service that must be allowed to thrive.
Through Uber’s smartphone app, people who need a 
ride are connected to drivers in the area. Payment is pro-cessed through the app, and drivers usually arrive to pick up the passenger within minutes. Both the passenger and driver can rate each other at the end of the ride, which in-centivizes all parties to be polite, efﬁ  cient and safe.
Though Uber and other ridesharing services have 
mainly been criticized for taking business away from taxi companies, no one can deny that they are vast improve-ments to the traditional cab system. Taxi drivers endure heavy regulations and fees for the right to work which do not necessarily beneﬁ  t the driver or rider.Most notably, these regula-
tions force taxi drivers to buy or rent medallions — costly permits required to drive a taxi. Most cit-ies strictly limit the number of medallions that can be issued, meaning these permits usually sell for thousands of dollars. Last year, a medallion in New York City sold for about $1 million. According to USA Today, this kind of regulation has “artiﬁ  -
cially restricted the supply of drivers through the sale of costly medallions and other means.”
This explains why it is so difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd a cab in some 
cities: The demand for cabs is higher than the supply of drivers, which allows taxi cab companies to charge exor-bitant prices.
This is the very reason why Uber and other rideshar-
ing services have emerged. The traditional taxi system is ﬂ  awed, and for decades it has failed to innovate or adapt to technology. Why, then, are city legislators demanding that Uber comply with the same regulations that created a need for alternative services in the ﬁ  rst place?
After all, Uber would not have survived this long if the 
model we already had was the best one out there.
Of course, Uber is not a perfect model. It must improve 
its background checks, increase wages and beneﬁ  ts for its employees and establish a clearer insurance policy for both the passengers and drivers. Ridesharing is still a new market, and it will take time and experience for companies to ﬁ  gure out how to make the service optimal for every-one. But this is worth the effort. Innovation was desper-ately needed and must be allowed to continue.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her 
columns appear on Tuesdays.
In defense of Uber despite past ﬂ  awsTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7Kathryn is spend -
ing her last semester 
at UF crying her way to graduation and working as the editor-in-chief. She started at the Al-ligator as a university writer, then moved to the crime beat before working as metro edi-tor. After a two-semes -
ter internship hiatus, 
Kathryn is back in 
Gainesville and ready 
to make a newspaper 
(and finally set foot inside a UF gym). She spends the major -
ity of her time in the newsroom, worrying about the newsroom or consuming news. But when she’s not obsessing about the 
media, you can find her eating too much pizza and biking it 
off around Gainesville. She was also a doo-bopping soprano in 
UF’s co-ed a cappella group, No Southern Accent, but had to 
quit because journalism took over her life. After she graduates 
in May, Kathryn is heading to The New York Times for a metro 
internship. Story ideas? Complaints? New York restaurant rec -
ommendations? Send ‘em over to kvarn@alligator.org or tweet 
@kathrynvarn.Kristan Wiggins 
is a 20-year-old UF journalism se -
nior and the man-aging print editor. She has been working at the Al-ligator in some way since her first semester at UF — mostly at copy 
desk, preventing 
readers from see -
ing “its” when it should be “it’s.” 
Remember read -
ing “This Week in 
Gainesville” a year ago? They were probably chosen by her for 
your amusement. When she isn’t spending hours of her time 
in the Alligator office, she can be found trying out a new cookie 
recipe in her tiny kitchen while binge-watching a new show. 
She’ll be heading to The New York Times to intern this sum -
mer, hopefully using the Big Apple as inspiration to write the next great American novel in her spare time. Feel free to reach 
out about cats or grammar puns at kwiggins@alligator.org or @
KristanWiggins.
Alex Harris is a 
22-year-old Orlando native and the cur -
rent online editor. She’s served as ev -
erything from blog-ger to staff writer to editor-in-chief, but she can’t seem to get enough of the grungy Wi-Fi desert that is the Alligator newsroom. Her cur -
rent challenge is teaching herself to shoot and edit video, 
so send story ideas and tips her way (pretty please). The months leading up to both Spring graduation and a stint in the Fall at the Miami Herald will include a lot of time chowing down on burritos at El Indio, exploring the world, attempting to cook vegan dinners and staring longingly at stray cats in the newsroom parking lot. She may also go on a few casual skydiving trips with her daredevil family. Her ultimate goal is to be an environmental reporter somewhere awesome. To chat about any or none of that, email her at aharris@alliga-tor.org or tweet @harrisalexc.Alec Carver is a UF 
history sophomore and new opinions editor. He was born and raised in Tampa. He has one sis-ter, against whom he is locked in a constant struggle to out-sass.Early on, Alec devel-oped an appreciation for reading things in earnest. Not coinciden-tally, he found a niche somewhere between class clown and mas-sive dork. Alec occupied this position until his senior year of high school, when know -
ing stuff became somewhat acceptable. This was the year he blossomed, culminating in an internship at the Tampa Bay Times. He wonders how in the world he got that position to this day. He came to UF in the Summer of 2013 and started writing for the Alligator opinions section early that fall. He has been writing there ever since. He remains too much of a dork to not study history. He enjoys television, waterskiing, bur -
ritos and drinking unsafe amounts of coffee. Email him at opinions@alligator.org or @AlecHCarver.
Meet the editors8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Ellen Villafuerte is the editor of the Av -
enue and a 21-year-old journalism senior 
from Miami. Previously, she worked as copy desk chief, where she spent most of her time perfecting stories, writing punny headlines and eating a lot of McDonald’s and Leonardo’s pizza. Her interests include liking too many photos of pugs on Insta -
gram, enjoying Karma Cream and watching endless hours of shows on Netflix. After she graduates in May, she will be moving to Buf-falo, New York, for a copy editing internship at The Buffalo News, but she would still 
love job offers afterward. If you have any 
story ideas for the Avenue, compliments or complaints, shoot her an email at emi-chelle@alligator.org.     Andres Leiva is a 20-year-old third-year UF journalism student. At the Alligator, An-dres is the photo editor, so please don’t be weirded out if he takes a picture of you on campus. It’s totally cool. He was born in Miami, but he grew up in El Salvador, which is a Central American country the size of your pinky on a map. He enjoys listening to Schoolboy Q as well as Taylor Swift. After he graduates, he wants to re -
turn to El Salvador and do investigative photojournalism. Have a photo tip? Shoot him an email at aleiva@alligator.org or 
tweet @AndresMLeiva.Melissa Mihm is the metro editor and a 
23-year-old journalism student from Miami. 
One time, she ate nothing but bananas for two days. Her parents were never fans of technology, so she grew up reading the newspaper at the breakfast table. She hopes to get a job that will give her ample banana money when she graduates. She loves all kinds of animals, plants, film photography, road trips, coffee, forests, traveling, cook -
ing and naps. This past summer she went to South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and Thailand. When she graduates she plans on 
traveling across the U.S. before entering the 
real world. If you have any city story ideas, please feel free to email her at mmihm@al-ligator.org.Alyssa Fisher is the university editor, 
covering all facets of campus life. She’s a 21-year-old journalism junior from Cooper City, Florida, with a penchant for feature writ-ing. A nerdy photo of her posing in front of the Alligator freshman year will forever live on social media. A self-proclaimed foodie who constantly craves veggies, she would eat hummus straight out of the container if it were socially acceptable. Her ideal after -
noon would be spent reading a book at a lo -
cal cafe while sipping a caramel latte in the Israeli flatform shoes she can’t get enough 
of. Although looking forward to a future ca-
reer in magazines, she will never give up her childhood dream of becoming a ballerina. She hopes to land a summer internship in 
New York City and window shop every day. 
If you have any university story ideas, words 
of encouragement or just want to say “Hi,” email her at afisher@alligator.org.Meet the editors10, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
1
1312111098765432
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and ﬁ  nal printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval conﬁ  rms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGES
We are seeking volunteers with TMJ pain for a study 
of muscle and jaw function. People with ﬁ  bromyalgia 
or pain in other parts of their body may also be eligible.  
Participants must be between 18 and 74 years old and 
generally in good health. Compensation provided.  
For further information 
email or call:
Dawn Dampier 
Research Coordinator 
OPPERA2@battelle.org 
(877)810-9530 ext. 503 DO YOU HAVE PAIN IN YOUR 
FACE OR JAW, OR TMJ PAIN?
Alligator File Photo
In this 2009 photo, then-student Martin Kipp lounges in his parachute hammock between classes on the 
SFC campus. Kipp said he carries his hammock in his book bag with him at all times.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College held its 
Spring convocation Monday, 
during which it highlighted the 
achievements of the previous se-mester and addressed issues that the college plans to combat.
Hundreds of people — mostly 
Santa Fe faculty and staff — at-tended the event in the Fine Arts Hall, which was hosted by 
the college’s president, Jackson 
Sasser.
Going over the highs and lows 
of 2014, Sasser said goodbye to 40 retired Santa Fe staff members and greeted the 30 new employ-ees.
He also spoke about what the 
college considers to be its best at-tributes, including the college’s food pantry, which provides meals for free or at a reduced cost. Sasser also said the relation-ship between Santa Fe and UF has contributed to the college’s success.
Later in the convocation, Stu-
dent Affairs Vice President Nai-ma Brown gave a presentation on sexual violence. She discussed how Santa Fe will work with stu-dents, faculty and staff to battle this issue in 2015. Programs on 
how to handle and prevent sex-
ual violence will start this semes-
ter. Some of these will be manda-
tory programs that students, staff 
and faculty will be required to 
participate in, she said.
“While incidents of sexual as-
sault may not take place in our nonexistent dorm rooms, too 
many of our students have been 
victimized,” Brown said.Spring convocation 
addresses future issuesSANTA FETUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 11 
12, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
YOUR CAMPUS RESOURCE FOR CREDIBLE HEALTH INFORMATION, PROGRAMS, AND SERVICES.We Are Where Y ou Are.
gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu
We Can Help. 352-273-4450Counseling & Wellness Center at3190 Radio Road Bus routes 20, 21, 119, 125, 126Health Hut scheduled at locations across campusSprings complex and Jennings Hall
Student Resources For:
Wellness CoachingStress ReductionManaging TimeQuitting SmokingSexual Health.
.
.
.
.
....
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sk8r Boy
Addison Nguyen, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, prepares to launch off a slope on his 
skateboard. Nguyen said skateboarding was a new hobby for him, and he was trying to get better at it.
COMMISSION
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Christopher Weaver isn’t new to the politi-
cal scene.
The former UF senator will be running for 
Gainesville city commissioner of District 1. If 
he wins the March 17 election, he will be the 
ﬁ  rst enrolled UF student elected to the City 
Commission.
“I learned about the many different orga-
nizations on campus and the issues affecting students in Gainesville,” he said.
The 28-year-old was elected into UF Sen-
ate in Fall 2014 with prior experience working with government ﬁ  nances. He entered UF in 2012 to pursue his Ph.D. in public administra-tion and public property and has spent the past eight months working for Alachua Coun-ty in budget and ﬁ  nance.
Weaver spent two years in the mayor’s of-
ﬁ  ce in Tallahassee in budgeting and ﬁ  nancing while working toward his master’s degree at Florida Agricultural & Mechanical University.    
District 1 is the largest of the remaining 
four districts, with a population of 50,759, ac-cording to Alachua County records. The dis-trict runs east of 13th Street around Biven’s Arm, Archer Road, Hull Road and the Mi-canopy area.  
“It encompasses students as well as a big 
portion of the African-American community,” Weaver said.
He spent his time in Senate learning about 
problems such as towing fees and off-campus living.
“One of the ﬁ  rst issues that I tried to tackle 
while being a student senator was GRU rais-ing water rates for students living in apart-ments,” he said.
Weaver attended many meetings held by 
the city commission but said he felt students were not represented.
“The City Commission was not listening to 
the 50,000 students that make up the 120,000 residents in Gainesville,” he said.
The four other candidates running are 
Charles Edward Goston, Scherwin Henry, Lu-cas A. Jewell  and incumbent Yvonne Hinson-Rawls.
UF Student Senate President Joseph Mi-
chaels said he hopes students learn about each candidate in the race and make an educated decision while voting.
“I think student participation and engage-
ment in any election is important,” he wrote in an email.
Weaver also served in the army under a 
two-year contract. He was stationed in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake.
“The military and deﬁ  nitely being in infan-
try has given me a mindset that you can do anything that you put your mind and time into,” he said.
He decided to run for city commissioner 
because he wanted to serve his community, he said.
“As an American, it’s your duty to serve 
your country as best you can,” he said.
Former UF senator to run for Gainesville commissioner spot
 COUPLES GATHERED OUTSIDE 
THE COURTHOUSE MONDAY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Lesbian and gay couples 
were wed in Miami on Monday by the 
same judge who approved their marriage licenses, hours before Florida’s coming-out party as the nation’s 36th state where 
same-sex marriages are now legal state-
wide.
The addition of Florida’s popula-
tion of 19.9 million people means that 70 percent of Americans now live in states where gay marriage is legal.
“It’s been a long time coming,” said 
Cathy Pareto, who wed Karla Arguello, her partner of 15 years. “Finally Florida recognizes us as a couple.”Although same-sex marriage is now a 
reality in Florida, Attorney General Pam 
Bondi is still pursuing appeals at both the 
federal and state levels. Her position has been that marriage should be deﬁ  ned by each state.
Tellingly, however, the 11th U.S. Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals and then the U.S. Supreme Court refused Bondi’s request to extend an order blocking same-sex marriages beyond Monday, essentially 
giving the green light to the weddings 
that took place. Bondi’s ofﬁ  ce didn’t even appear at Monday’s hearing, telling the judge by phone that the state wouldn’t oppose issuing licenses during the ap-peals process.
“The judge has ruled, and we wish 
these couples the best,” Bondi’s press sec-retary, Whitney Ray, told The Associated 
Press in an email.Same-sex couples marry 
early in Miami-Dade CountyTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 13 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Enjoying the Weather
Ben Schwaller, a 19-year-old UF electrical engineering junior, reaches for a Frisbee toss near Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Monday afternoon. Schwaller said he was excited for the new semester and that he was ready to get back into the swing of things.
 USE OF FORCE HAS INCREASED 29 PERCENT IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — State law enforcement ofﬁ  cials asked 
legislators for additional funds Monday to keep up 
with the growing demand for death investigations at Florida’s troubled prisons.
The Department of Corrections has been marred 
by allegations of inmate abuse and cover-ups at Florida prisons in the past year, prompting doz-ens of ﬁ  rings and an agency-wide overhaul. The scrutiny prompted the secretary earlier this year to put the Florida Department of Law Enforcement in charge of all investigations into deaths that oc-curred under unnatural circumstances.
The Florida Department of Law Enforcement 
said investigations of inmate deaths that occurred 
while in the custody of prison employees or as 
the result of such employees’ use of force have in-creased 29 percent in the past ﬁ  ve years. Authori-ties asked members of a Senate committee for $8.4 million to help with the 82 cases it inherited from the DOC.
During the Tallahassee meeting, lawmakers also 
said the two departments must clarify whether all deaths are being investigated or only suspicious 
deaths. Lawmakers expressed concerns about whether DOC staff could be trusted to accurately 
report deaths amid allegations of cover-ups.
Under the agreement, the department is sup-
posed to notify the FDLE so that investigators can respond to the facility while the scene is still intact.
But lawmakers noted parts of the agreement 
needed to be deﬁ  ned, including what the con-sequences are if prison ofﬁ  cials don’t report the 
death and whether the FDLE should investigate all 
deaths, including those caused by lack of care.
Sen. Rob Bradley, R-Orange Park, said the two 
agencies now have a verbal agreement where FDLE will only investigate suspicious deaths.
“Isn’t one of the concerns whether DOC is prop-
erly describing the incidents as suspicious or non-suspicious?” he asked.
This fall, DOC ofﬁ  cials ﬁ  red nearly 50 prison 
employees, including several over allegations that they punched and beat inmates.
The deaths of inmates Randall Jordan-Aparo 
and Darren Rainey also drew attention. Rainey, a mentally ill prisoner, was punished in 2012 with a shower so hot that his skin separated from his body. Jordan-Aparo was reportedly gassed while in a conﬁ  nement cell.
Witnesses said guards at Dade Correctional In-
stitution left Rainey alone for two hours in a locked, scalding hot shower as punishment for defecating in his cell and refusing to clean it up. The warden at Dade Correctional was ﬁ  red.Demand for Florida prison-
death investigations growingNATIONAL
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Despite threats of war and at-
tacks on venues, some movie the-
aters in Alachua County showed 
the controversial comedy movie 
“The Interview” over Winter Break.
The Marion Theatre in Ocala 
was one that decided to show the movie, which features actors Seth Rogen and James Franco play-ing journalists tasked by the CIA to assassinate North Korea’s su-
preme leader Kim Jong Un.
The movie sparked global 
controversy in June when North 
Korea threatened war against the 
U.S. if the movie was shown in 
theaters.
“If the U.S. administration al-
lows and defends the showing of the ﬁ  lm, a merciless counter-
measure will be taken,” a North 
Korean foreign ministry spokes-man said in June after the release of the movie’s trailer, according to the Korean Central News Agency.
U.S. ofﬁ  cials said North Korea 
hacked Sony — the company that created the movie — in December and released massive amounts of private information, causing 
considerable damage to the com-
pany’s reputation.
North Korea has denied any 
involvement in the hacking, but U.S. security ofﬁ  cials said they have evidence to prove otherwise.
Later that month, after threats 
of attacks were made against any movie theater that would show the movie, Sony decided not to release “The Interview” when nu-
merous movie theaters across the 
U.S. announced they would not show the movie.
Sony’s announcement was met 
with sharp criticism. President Barack Obama also condemned Sony’s decision, and said during a press conference Dec. 19 the com-pany “made a mistake” by opting 
not to show the movie.However, nearly a week later, 
Sony reversed its decision. “The 
Interview” was shown in theaters 
and released online Christmas 
Day.
About 400 people attended a 
free screening of “The Interview” 
at the Marion Theatre on Christ-
mas Eve, said manager Cassandra Lightfoot. It was one of 331 inde-pendently owned theaters in the U.S. that showed the movie.
“As for the (threats of) attacks, I 
guess you could say we just chose to disregard that,” Lightfoot said.
She said the next day the the-
ater received repeated phone calls asking for the movie to be shown again.
“We ﬁ  gured it would be a good 
idea to pick that ﬁ  lm up and so far 
it’s been a good decision,” Light-
foot said. “There’s a lot of hype for it.”
While the movie was available 
for about $6 online on YouTube and Amazon Prime, among other sites, it was also pirated by more than 15 million people, reported TorrentFreak, a site dedicated to 
copyright and privacy news.
Emanuel Hernandez-Hernan-
dez, an 18-year-old Santa Fe Col-
lege ﬁ  lm sophomore, watched 
the movie online because it was 
cheaper.
“A part of me looked forward 
to going to the movie theater to see ‘The Interview,’” Hernandez-
Hernandez said. “As soon as 
we heard it was online, we were shocked how much cheaper it was. As a ﬁ  lm producer, it kind 
of shined a light in my eye: ‘Wow, 
we don’t need huge movie theater companies to show movies.’”
He said he enjoyed the movie, 
but what he found most amazing 
was how it was advertised.
Hernandez-Hernandez said 
the controversy around the movie 
actually helped it by providing 
free advertising.
“I haven’t seen any billboards 
for ‘The Interview’ or commer-
cials, but the fact that I have seen it so much on my social media or 
regular websites, I think it just 
shows how well-advertised this movie was,” he said. “It’s almost kind of like they advertised them-
selves.”Local theaters show ‘The 
Interview’ despite threats
“As for the (threats 
of) attacks, I guess you 
could say we just chose to 
disregard that.”
Cassandra Lightfoot
manager14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Play Me a Song
Plugs McGnarls, a 20-year-old man from Rochester, New York, plays 
music on his guitar next to Target Copy on West University Avenue on Monday afternoon. McGnarls said he was in Gainesville to meet his sister for Christmas.
CAMPUS
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students who graduated in 
the last two commencements this Fall found more excitement than expected.
On Dec. 20, 
UF gave out its 500,000th degree, former President Bernie Machen 
performed his last commence-ment ceremony and Morgan 
Freeman made a surprise guest ap-pearance.
At the 10 a.m. ceremony, mar-
keting alumnus Christian Cruz, 22, earned UF’s 500,000th degree. He walked across the stage accompa-nied by Albert the Alligator and was congratulated by Machen.
“They kind of stopped the 
whole graduation for me which was scary and exciting at the same time,” Cruz said.
The degree count includes both 
undergraduate and graduate de-grees that have been awarded since 1906, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
“Broadly speaking, people like 
big numbers,” Orlando said. “You know, a half million is a lot of de-grees. But I think it also speaks to the impact the university has had over the past, how much of an im-pact those graduates have had on the state of Florida and really the entire world in that time.”
Orlando said there was no way 
to know exactly which student earned the 500,000th degree. Cruz was chosen because he represented the hard work needed to graduate from UF.
Orlando said Cruz was also cho-
sen because he was a Florida Op-portunity Scholar, a program for 
ﬁ  rst-generation students started by 
Machen.
Cruz said he was told he would 
be accepting the 500,000th degree two weeks in advance and attend-
ed graduation planning meetings. 
He received a lifetime membership 
to the Alumni Association and a 
frame for his diploma.
Allison Greer-Beal, 48, gradu-
ated with a degree in history at the 
same ceremony.
“I think it was fantastic that it 
happened at my graduation,” she said. “It didn’t take away from it 
at all.”
Cruz wasn’t the only student in 
the spotlight at graduation. At the 
2 p.m. ceremony, students were 
shocked when Academy Award-
winning actor Morgan Freeman 
stepped on stage to surprise his 
granddaughter Alexis Freeman, an 
education graduate.“I saw this guy come out of the 
back in a ball cap, and I was like, ‘Huh. That looks like Morgan Free-man,’” said Greer-Beal, who at-tended the afternoon ceremony to see two friends graduate. “And when he started talking I was like, ‘Holy crap! It’s Morgan freaking Freeman!’”
University ofﬁ  cials didn’t know 
Freeman was coming until two days before the ceremony, Orlando said.
Greer-Beal said it all happened 
fast.
“(Freeman) even surprised 
the guy that was announcing the 
names,” she said. “And then he was 
off, right back into the curtains.“
Greer-Beal said her graduating 
friends were happy about the sur-
prise guest.
“They walked around saying, 
‘God was at our graduation!’” she 
said. “They thought it was the 
greatest thing.”
The event ended with the grad-
uating class holding up giant cards spelling out, “Thanks Bernie” as 
a tribute to the former president, 
who retired at the end of Decem-
ber.
“I thought it was great. I teared 
up and everything,” Greer-Beal 
said. “I felt privileged to be at his 
last two graduations because he 
has done so much for our school.”Surprise guest at Fall commencement
Freeman
16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Play Me a Song
Plugs McGnarls, a 20-year-old man from Rochester, New York, plays music on his guitar next to Target Copy 
on West University Avenue on Monday afternoon. McGnarls said he was in Gainesville to meet his sister for Christmas.NATIONAL
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
A local nonprofit organization will now 
be able to provide better humanitarian aid 
to Cuba after a recent decision by the White House to repair relations between the U.S. and Cuba.
In a recent statement by the group, Inspire 
Cuba said the policy change “will make us a more efficient humanitarian organization by eliminating travel restrictions, money spend-ing restrictions and importation of humani-
tarian and technological items restrictions.”
Before the embargo and sanctions on 
Cuba were lifted by the U.S. in December, 
Inspire Cuba gave aid to Cubans by raising money to purchase flash drives, cellphones, laptops, school supplies, food and toys. The products were then taken to Cuba by Cuban-Americans visiting the country.
Now, the group will be able to directly de-
liver the aid.  
“Consistent with our mission, we unani-
mously support the White House effort to improve relations with Cuba, because we can already foresee the beginning of true recon-ciliation, the waning of hate and rancor, and the establishment of a stronger independent civil society in the island,” the statement read.  
Previously, a state law prohibited Florida 
universities from using state or grant money 
to travel to countries deemed terrorist states by the U.S., Cuba being one of them.
After the announcement that relations 
with Cuba would be repaired, President 
Barack Obama ordered Secretary of State John Kerry to review Cuba’s inclusion on the State Sponsors of Terrorism list, hinting at the 
possibility that the country could be removed 
from the list.
The White House has said the U.S. will 
work with Cuba to improve its human rights conditions. To do this, licenses to allow edu-cational, religious, humanitarian and other trips will be issued to Americans by the U.S. government. This will help groups like In-spire Cuba, the organization said.
According to Inspire Cuba, an estimated 
25 percent of Cubans live on less than $2 a day.
Solange Rodriguez of Inspire Cuba expe-
rienced the effects of poverty firsthand, hav-ing been born and raised in Cuba.  From 2001 to 2004, she said her parents worked for $20 a month, the maximum amount of pay a Cu-ban worker can receive.
Because Cuba is a communist nation, 
most Cuban workers are paid between $10 and $20 a month, Inspire Cuba co-founder Marco García said.
Due to this pay limit, it can be very diffi-
cult for Cubans to buy products they need to survive, such as food.
“With $20, you have to be able to manage 
to buy soap — which was around $3 — (and) milk, which was distributed by the govern-ment. But it was never enough,” Rodriguez said, adding that the government only pro-vides a liter of milk per family every week.
The prices for things such as milk are the 
same as prices in the U.S. For this reason, Ro-
driguez said maintaining a healthy diet is al-
most impossible because of the low pay that Cuban workers receive.
“It is not enough to live,” she continued. 
“So people have to consider: ‘So this month I’m going to eat this kind of food and next month this is what I need to do so I can bal-ance my nutrition and balance my life so I can survive.’”
The decision by the U.S. to improve its re-
lations with Cuba has been met with mixed responses.  Some people have welcomed it, but many Floridian politicians rejected it.
Former Florida governor and potential 
2016 presidential candidate Jeb Bush also criticized Obama’s decision. In a Facebook post he said it was “the latest foreign policy misstep by this President, and another dra-matic overreach of his executive authority.”“It undermines America’s credibility and 
undermines the quest for a free and demo-cratic Cuba,” Bush said in the statement. “The beneficiaries of President Obama’s ill-advised move will be the heinous Castro brothers who have oppressed the Cuban peo-
ple for decades.”
“Cuba is a dictatorship with a disastrous 
human rights record, and now President 
Obama has rewarded those dictators,” Bush continued. “We should instead be fostering efforts that will truly lead to the fair, legiti-mate democracy that will ultimately prevail in Cuba.”
The president, however, remains confi-
dent in his decision and believes that it will benefit both Americans and Cubans in the long run.
“Today, the United States of America is 
changing its relationship with the people of Cuba,” Obama said during a live television announcement on the day of the decision.
“In the most significant changes in our 
policy in more than 50 years, we will end an 
outdated approach that for decades has failed 
to advance our interests, and instead we will begin to normalize relations between our two countries,” he said. 
“Through these changes, we intend to 
create more opportunities for the American and Cuban people and begin a new chapter among the nations of the Americas,” he con-tinued. 
US lifts embargo on Cuban goods, enables more relations
 THIS IS THE THIRD 
YEAR IN A ROW.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
UF students can remain 
confident they are getting 
the most out of their money.
According to a study pub-
lished by Kiplinger Personal Finance magazine, UF is ranked among the best val-
ues in public colleges for the 
third year in a row.
Kiplinger, based in Wash-
ington, D.C., publishes busi-ness forecasts and personal 
financial advice.
UF ranked No. 3 in best 
value in Florida and No. 8 in 
the country. In 2012, UF was 
ranked No. 2, but it fell to 
No. 3 in 2013. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill was ranked No. 1 both in and out of state.
Other Florida universities 
on the list are New College of Florida, Florida State Uni-versity, University of Central 
Florida, University of South 
Florida, Florida Internation-al University and University of North Florida.
Kiplinger started with 
1,200 public and private 
four-year schools provided 
by Peterson’s, a university data system. 
Rankings are based on 
competitiveness, graduation rates, academic support, cost of tuition, financial aid and student debt.
UF in-state tuition is 
$17,233 per year and out-of-state tuition is $39,511 per year. The average debt stu-dents have after graduation 
is $20,708.
UF spokesman Steve Or-
lando said the ranking re-
flects well on UF.
“I think this is really good 
news for all Floridians be-cause they can be confident that their state’s preemi-nence university offers high-
er value of education in the 
country,” Orlando said. 
“The economy has im-
proved in the past couple of years and a good investment 
like this never goes out of 
style,” he said.UF ranked among 
top public universitiesfor best degree value
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PANGKALAN BUN, Indonesia 
— The search operation for AirA-
sia Flight 8501 will spread slightly eastward Tuesday as the weather and currents drag wreckage in that 
direction, the head of Indonesia’s 
rescue agency said.
Bad weather has made it diffi-
cult to locate parts of the plane and recover the 125 bodies that are still missing, said National Search and Rescue Agency’s director of opera-tions Suryadi B. Supriyadi.There were 162 passengers and 
crew on the Airbus 320 when it crashed Dec. 28. So far, 37 bodies have been recovered.
“Time is of the essence ... but 
it seems like it is hard to beat the weather,” Supriyadi said, add-ing that divers trying to reach the wreckage Monday were forced to return to their ships by strong cur-rents as rough seas continued to im-pede dive-and-search teams.
The debris found so far indicates 
the body of the plane broke into parts, he said.On Monday, Indonesia’s trans-
portation ministry announced harsh measures against everyone who al-lowed AirAsia Flight 8501 to take off 
without proper permits — includ-
ing the suspension of the airport’s operator and officials in the control tower.
Routing permits for all airlines 
flying in the country will be exam-ined to see if they violate the rules, said Djoko Murjatmodjo, acting di-rector general of air transportation.
“Who knows if other airlines are 
also doing the same thing,” he said.
Search area shifts for AirAsia plane“It undermines America’s 
credibility and undermines the 
quest for a free and democratic 
Cuba.”
Jeb Bush
former FLorida governor
RANKINGTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 17 
ABOVE: Jake McGee 
and Jordan Sherit visit a patient at the Children’s Hospital of Alabama at UAB on Thursday.
RIGHT: Dante Fowler Jr. 
looks at his teammates before his turn to bowl at Vestavia Bowl in Bir-mingham on Wednes-day. 
BELOW: Duke Dawson 
(left) gives a gift to a patient at the Children’s Hospital of Alabama at UAB in Birmingham on Thursday.
ABOVE: Max Garcia puts Gators posters into a wagon filled with gifts for patients at the Children’s Hospital of Alabama at UAB on Thursday. 
BELOW: Kelvin Taylor dances while at Vestavia Bowl in Birmingham 
on Wednesday.
Florida football team visits children’s 
hospital, goes bowling in Birmingham
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Megan Reeves / Alligator Staff Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffJordan McPherson / Alligator StaffMegan Reeves / Alligator StaffMORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan_Moriarty
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — The Jim 
McElwain era is just getting under-
way. 
The new head coach made the 
trip to the Birmingham Bowl last 
weekend, and he even got a chance 
to hang out with some fans and get a taste of Southeastern Conference tailgating at its finest. 
“It was interesting. I always won-
dered what people did out there,” McElwain said. “Man, they have fun. There’s no doubt about it.”
Although McElwain hasn’t been 
doing any actual coaching since be-ing introduced as the next Florida head coach on Dec. 6, he has been observing the practices run by in-terim head coach D.J. Durkin.
“It’s really 
one of those deals where it’ll be a huge 
change for them,” McElwain said. “And yet at the same time the way that they have approached this is something that I have kind of really kind of impressed with.”
With McElwain’s hire coming 
at the beginning of December, that leaves roughly two months to put to-gether a recruiting class for National 
Signing Day on Feb. 4. McElwain 
landed his first recruit three weeks ago with tight end Daniel Imatorb-hebhe’s (6-foot-4, 220 pounds, Su-wanee, Ga., North Gwinnett High) verbal commitment. The 2015 class is currently at eight verbal commit-ments. McElwain said the focus will be building depth along the offen-sive line. 
“That’s pretty obvious, you guys 
see the roster,” McElwain said. “Try to have practice next year, so, that’s probably one that we gotta get taken care of.”
The 2015 class has three offensive 
linemen who are verbally commit-ted to Florida, including Michael Horton (6-foot-4, 320 pounds, At-lanta, Ga., Lakeside High) Tyler Jordan (6-foot-5, 270 pounds, Jack-sonville, Fla., Bishop Kenny High) and Brandon Sandifer (6-foot-3, 332 pounds, Warner Robins, Ga., North-side School). 
McElwain addressed the hiring 
of Doug Nussmeier as offensive coordinator, who was the offen-sive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Alabama in 2012 and 2013 following McElwain’s departure for Colorado State. He was the of-fensive coordinator at Michigan in 2014. The Wolverines struggled and 
finished 5-7 while not doing much 
on offense. The hire was perceived underwhelming to some after the year Michigan had with Nussmeier as offensive coordinator, something McElwain dismisses.  
“I kind of laugh at them,” McEl-
wain said. “Look at what he has done. He followed up what I did at 
Alabama and took it to the next lev-
el. He was in a tough situation and tried to resurrect it.”
The expectations will always be 
high for Florida football, but McEl-wain knows that to turn things around, it’ll take some time as well. 
“This is going to be a building 
process in the infrastructure for a 
long time to come,” McElwain said. 
“It doesn’t happen overnight. I’m talking about rebuilding a total or-ganization, so that’s going to take some time.”
18, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
New head football coach Jim McElwain speaks at his opening press conference in Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium. Prior to Florida’s 28-20 win in Saturday’s Birmingham Bowl, McElwain discussed his thoughts on recruiting and his staff hires, among other topics.
McElwain previews UF football’s future before Birmingham Bowl
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Faced with the possibility of opening 
Southeastern Conference play with back-to-back losses, the Gators women’s bas-ketball team made sure to avoid a letdown Sunday, as Florida dispatched Auburn 63-50 to claim its first SEC win of the season. 
Brooke Copeland scored a team-leading 
12 points on four three-point baskets. The freshman forward has provided a spark off the bench this season, as her outside shoot-ing prowess despite her height has often left her open from behind the arc. 
Florida (9-6, 1-1 SEC) went into the half 
with the score tied at 29, with Auburn (9-6, 0-2 SEC) seeming poised to take the lead and handle the Gators. But Florida shot 59.1 percent from the field in the second half, outscoring the Tigers down the stretch to ensure the victory. 
With Florida holding a slight 40-39 lead 
with just under 15 minutes to play, fresh-man Haley Lorenzen scored two quick shots in the paint that sparked a game-clinching 18-4 run.
“We shot the ball better and that always 
helps,” coach Amanda Butler said. “No matter what else goes right or wrong, if you shoot the ball well you can overcome 27 turnovers. That’s what we did today. Our players did a good job of really, really being excited every time they had a chance to play defense.”
While Butler would like to see improve-
ment with Florida’s ball control, the Gators made up for the mistakes on the defensive end. Florida forced Auburn to turn the ball over 20 times and limited the Tigers to 33.3-percent shooting in the game, a prod-uct of consistent pressure in which Florida has prided itself. 
Cassie Peoples, who 
leads the team in assists and scoring, has struggled 
with taking care of the ball at times. The redshirt junior also leads the team in turnovers, yet Butler believes the cause of the turnovers isn’t due to a lack of acknowledging 
what passes are there, but is actually due to Peoples looking to pass when she should take the shot herself. 
“Cassie turned the ball over a bunch 
in the first half, but the second half didn’t and that made a big, big difference,” Butler said. “She started playing more aggressive-ly north and south and stopped looking for people to pass to as much. She used the fact that she was smaller as a weapon. That was a great adjustment by her.”
When Florida shoots the ball well from 
outside the three-point line, the Gators have had a far easier time dismantling op-ponents. 
But often the long-range shots come 
from passing the ball down low, and then creating enough ball movement to kick the ball back out to the open shooter. 
“When you look at Haley’s points and 
Ronni (Williams’) points in particular and maybe even some of Kayla (Lewis’) put-backs, a lot of that was secondary action because we shot the ball so well outside,” Butler said. “That created some passing lanes for us on the low block and we were able to shoot a little closer to the basket.”
Copeland leads balanced UF offense in SEC win against AuburnUF Fo otball
Copeland
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 19 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — 
There is a ﬁ  nality that can’t be felt until some-
thing actually ends. 
It sounds simple enough, in 
theory, but the impact of the end 
isn’t truly understood until you cross the threshold, and look back on where you’ve come 
from.
This day had been coming for months, 
of course, the end of the season. The Florida Gators had been asked about it for weeks, 
what will the end be like. 
The formal end to the Will Muschamp era, 
the end to their careers — in the case of Dante Fowler. 
But now it’s ﬁ  rm, as ﬁ  rm as the steel that 
made Birmingham one of the South’s indus-trial hubs.
Florida’s 28-20 victory over ECU was won 
like so many others: with talented Gators de-fense saving the day in the end when Vernon Hargreaves intercepted a Shane Carden pass 
on its way to stud wideout Justin Hardy’s 
hands. 
It was a Fowler-led defense with leader 
Antonio Morrison exiting the game early with a knee injury. Fowler said he told Morri-
son he was going to “anchor everything. My 
job was to keep ﬁ  ghting hard no matter what for my brothers.”
He tried his best to soak the last moments 
of the game in. He was one of the last Gators into the locker room after shaking hands of fans and taking pictures on the ﬁ  eld. He waited to take a shower 
and change until after doing me-dia obligations. 
Instead, he sat in his orange 
jersey and turf-stained white pants telling reporters he wasn’t ready to take the thing off yet, 
and when he did, he’d certainly 
be holding onto it as a keepsake. 
Fowler didn’t have to play. Hell, he didn’t even have to come on the 
trip.
It wouldn’t have been the honorable thing 
to do, but it would be at least a little bit un-derstandable if Fowler — just like wide re-ceiver Andre Debose — stayed in Gainesville 
after the ﬁ  ring of his coach he loved and the 
announcement that he was headed to the NFL Draft.
It would be — in a ﬁ  scal sense — the smart 
thing to do, to protect his body and its future 
earnings potential by not subjecting it to a car 
crash like collision 100 times over in an exhi-bition game at Legion Field. 
But that’s not what Dante Fowler did. 
He opted to play, saying he didn’t even 
give it a second thought, and absolutely ter-
rorized an ECU offensive line that looked like it wasn’t even trying to block him at points.
He had three sacks and two quarterback 
hurries on the day, including one sack on Shane Carden when, after dropping back into coverage he noticed Carden was rolling right. 
Fowler stepped up, sidestepped a lineman 
and buried Carden, wiping his shoes off and high stepping in celebration, something his interim head coach D.J. Durkin poked fun at him for after the game.
Durkin is one of the reasons Fowler 
played Saturday, and the other relationships he has with teammates and coaches and sup-port staff and trainers and fans. 
He owed it to them to give his best effort, 
and he owed it to the competitor inside him-self to take the ﬁ  eld for Florida one last time.He’s off to the NFL now, with a substan-
tial payday coming at the end of the spring when his name is called and he walks across 
the stage to shake commissioner Roger 
Goodell’s hand. 
Dante Fowler will take his smile and his 
talent to the big leagues, but until the very 
end as a Gator he competed, and that’s all 
anyone could have asked of him.20, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Megan Reeves / Alligator Staff
Dante Fowler Jr. sacks ECU quarterback Shane Carden during Florida’s 28-20 win 
in the Birmingham Bowl against East Carolina on Jan. 3 at Legion Field. Fowler ﬁ  nished the game — his last in a UF uniform — with a career-high three sacks.
JOHNSON’S JOURNAL
Fowler ends Gators career on a high note in Birmingham Bowl
RichardJohnson
twitter: @RagjUFSTAFF REPORT
Jeff Driskel is not returning to 
Florida next season.
The redshirt junior quarter-
back conﬁ  rmed Monday that he 
will transfer to Louisiana Tech for his ﬁ  nal season of collegiate football, UF announced on its 
website.
“There have been rumors go-
ing around that I am going to leave the University of Florida 
and transfer to Louisiana Tech University for my ﬁ  fth and ﬁ  nal 
year of eligibility. This is indeed 
true, and I look forward to the upcoming chapter of my life,’’ Driskel said in a release. “I have nothing but good things to say 
about the University of Florida 
and the football program there.
“I am grateful for the op-
portunities that have been pre-sented to me over the course of the past four 
years. Although things did not play out on the ﬁ  eld as I would have liked, I 
have no regrets 
on the choice I made to attend 
UF.”
Driskel, who has not started since Florida’s loss to Missouri on Oct. 18, entered Florida’s 28-20 win in the Birmingham Bowl 
against East Carolina with less 
than three minutes remaining in the third quarter after Treon Har-ris suffered an elbow injury.
The Oviedo native iced the 
game with a 9-yard bootleg run, sealing Florida’s ﬁ  rst bowl game win since the 2011 season in the process. “I think it says a lot about him 
as a person,” interim head coach D.J. Durkin said following the 
game. 
“The amount of adversity he’s 
had to go through in his career, to 
be honest, I don’t know if I could last through that.”
Driskel will be able to play 
immediately for Louisiana Tech since he received his undergrad-uate degree in August.
Quarterback Jeff Driskel to transfer to Louisiana Tech
Driskel
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 21 
TRACK AND FIELD
KYLE BRUTMAN         
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
The Florida women’s track and 
field team kicks off its 2015 season 
on Friday at the UAB Blazer Invi-tational in Birmingham, Alabama.
Despite the loss of key athletes 
such as All-Americans Cory Mc-Gee and Ebony Eutsey, the Gators are looking to capitalize on last season’s success.
The Gators set a new school re-
cord, boasting a total of 19 outdoor 
All-Americans including McGee, 
who was named the Southeastern Conference Co-Women’s Runner of the Year.
Florida experienced its best 
NCAA Indoor Championships performance under coach Mike Holloway, finishing in a tie for third place with Georgia.
Three Gators set new program 
records during the tournament. 
Shayla Sanders broke the re-
cord for the 60-meter race (7.18 seconds), Kyra Jefferson did the same in the 200-meter dash (22.79) and Brittany Harrell set a new Florida record for highest score in a pentathlon event with 4,287 
points.
In the SEC Indoor Champion-
ships, the Gators came out victori-ous, scoring 102 points to take the 
conference title.
Florida won four events, one of 
which set a new school record, as the team of Robin Reynolds, Des-tinee Gause, Jefferson and Eutsey 
took the 4x400-meter relay in a 
time of 3:30.16.
Florida’s performance at the 
NCAA Outdoor Championships resulted in a fourth-place finish, scoring 55 points.
The Gators were able to win 
one event at the championship, as All-American Fawn Miller deliv-
ered the best performance in the 
javelin toss (58.13 meters).
The Gators placed second in 
the SEC Outdoor Championships, compiling a total of 116.5 points.
McGee claimed the SEC cham-
pionship and set the facility record in the 1500-meter race (4:13.48).
Ciarra Brewer set a new pro-
gram and meet record with her performance in the triple jump event (13.91 meters).
The Gators lost seven players 
from last season, three of which earned All-America honors in their careers. Despite the loss of key players such as McGee and Eutsey, Florida brings in a class of 
10 freshmen and three transfers. Women’s track team 
aims to replace seniors
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
The Florida men’s track and 
field team begins its indoor 
season on Friday at the UAB Blazer Invitational in Birming-ham, Alabama.
In 2014, the Gators finished 
in third place at the NCAA In-door Championships in Albu-querque, New Mexico, behind Oregon and Arkansas, respec-tively. The third-place finish was the Gators’ sixth consecu-tive top-three outing at NCAA Indoors.
In a race of inches, then-
senior hurdler Eddie Lovett (7.578), finished two-thou-sandths of a second behind the Razorbacks’ Omar McCleod (7.576) in the 60-meter hurdles to capture the runner-up finish.
In the Southeastern Confer-
ence Indoor Championships in 
College Station, Texas, Florida 
finished in second place behind Arkansas.
Two Gators were crowned 
champions in their respec-tive individual events. Junior Arman Hall won the 200-me-ter dash and Lovett took the 60-meter hurdles, his fourth 
such championship. The 
4x400-meter relay team, featur-ing Hall, Najee Glass, Hugh Graham Jr. and Dedric Dukes finished in 3:03.50 to break the 
program record in this event, 
while also recording the sec-ond-fastest time in collegiate history.
Eleven Gators were named 
Indoor All-Americans, includ-ing Hall, who was named SEC Indoor Men’s Runner of the Year, and Mark Parrish, who 
broke the school record in the 
5000-meter run (13:45.13) at the Husky Classic in Seattle, Wash-ington.
At the NCAA Outdoor 
Championships, Florida fin-ished second to the champion, Oregon. UF finished with 70 points, which is the most Flori-
da has scored in this event un-
der coach Mike Holloway.
Marquis Dendy won the 
national championship in both the triple jump and long jump events. Dedric Dukes cap-tured the championship in the 200-meter sprint. The 4x100-meter relay team — consisting 
of Antwan Wright, Graham Jr., 
Hall and Dukes — also cap-tured the national title in their event.
The team added a class of 17 
freshmen and three transfers.Men’s track and field 
ready for 2015 seasonGRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
It isn’t a stretch to say this season hasn’t 
gone the way the Gators women’s basket-
ball team had hoped.Florida started the season with high 
ambitions and a hefty bit of motivation af-ter not receiving a single vote in the AP Top 25 poll a season removed from reach-
ing the second round of the NCAA Tour-
nament. The plan was to prove the doubters 
wrong, and show that the team could adapt and recover from the loss of gradu-ated star Jaterra Bonds.
But Florida (9-
6, 1-1 Southeastern Conference) strug-gled in non-con-
ference play, drop-
ping home games 
to Wisconsin and Eastern Washington. 
Facing a tougher-than-usual SEC this 
season, Florida needed to win as many 
games as possible heading into conference 
play.
The Gators went on the road and lost to 
Big East opponent St. John’s, a game that 
not only handed Florida its ﬁ  rst loss but 
also its ﬁ  rst major injury. 
Sophomore Ronni Williams, whose 
strong play last season left those around her convinced she would take the next 
step this season, departed New York with 
a left ankle sprain.
While she didn’t miss much time with 
the injury, Williams has needed several 
games to regain her form and has been 
playing her best basketball as of late as the team heads into 2015.
With SEC play commencing with Fri-
day’s home loss to LSU, Florida hopes to get its entire roster healthy as it prepares for the rest of its games against the deep-est conference in basketball. The Gators missed the bench play of Antoinette Ban-
nister, who has missed the past three 
games as she recovers from a concussion. Coach Amanda Butler insists Bannister is day-to-day, yet Cassie Peoples suffered 
the same injury in training camp and was 
limited for more than two weeks, so the timeline is individually relative to how a person’s body recovers.
Peoples, who leads Florida in scor-
ing and assists, has played well in spurts for the Gators this season. The transfer guard from Texas has assumed more of a dual point guard role alongside backcourt 
leader Carlie Needles, and Peoples’ game 
has evolved into more of a pass-ﬁ  rst style. Peoples is still growing as a passer, a fact that has caught the eye of Butler, and she has forced passes at times that have lead to 
critical turnovers.
The turnovers have been the Gators’ 
Achilles heel in several losses, and Florida 
is still working on valuing and taking care 
of the basketball more. The schedule only 
gets tougher from here on out, with games against Kentucky on the road and No. 1 South Carolina at home on Jan. 19.22, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
1
1312111098765432
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and ﬁ  nal printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval conﬁ  rms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGESWe’ll buy Your Old Laptop, Working or Not!
New   Used   Trade Ins  Repairs
IMPACT COMPUTERS
Gainesville’s #1 Computer Repair Specialist for 16 years!
3501 SW 2nd Avenue
(Located Creekside Mall Next to Gator Textbooks)352-371-1110
ImpactComputers.netFREE
Data Transfer
With Any Computer Purchase.
Expires 01/18/15
10% OFF
Any Used Laptop!
With Coupon
Expires 01/18/15$25 OFF
Any Repair $100 & Up!
With Coupon
Expires 01/18/15FREE
Diagnosis & Estimate!
With Coupon
Expires 01/18/15Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF guard Cassie Peoples (13) looks to pass the ball during Florida’s win against Stet-
son on Dec. 14 in the O’Connell Center.
Gators off to slow start as SEC play heads into full swingCOACHING HIRES
JORDAN MCPHERSON and  RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writers
@J_McPherson1126, @RagjUF
Florida introduced Jim McEl-
wain as its next head coach on Dec. 
6 and has since wasted no time put-ting together his coaching staff.
McElwain hired Mississippi State 
defensive coordinator Geoff Col-lins to the same position at Florida, the school announced on Dec. 16. He will replace defensive coordina-tor D.J. Durkin, who served as UF’s interim head coach during Florida’s 28-20 win in the Birmingham Bowl on Saturday.
“I got to know Geoff person-
ally during my time at Alabama and have stayed in touch with him since and his defenses have been successful everywhere he has been,” McElwain said in a release. “It was important to maintain some of the same philosophies and concepts that have made the defenses around here successful with this hire and our players will continue to prog-
ress under his direction.”
Although the two were not on 
the staff at the same time, both 
McElwain and Collins have ties to Alabama. Collins served as director of player personnel with the Crim-son Tide in 2007, the year before McElwain’s four-year run in Tusca-loosa began.
From there, Collins spent two 
seasons at UCF as linebackers coach, then another at FIU, where he got his ﬁ  rst FBS defensive coordinator job. In 2011, he joined Dan Mullen at Mississippi State co-coordinating the defense and then took over the position by himself in 2013. Collins also coached linebackers at FIU and 
MSU.
In 2013, Mississippi State ﬁ  nished 
18th in yards per game allowed, 
22nd in passing yards per game al-lowed and 38th in rushing yards per game. This sea-son, the Bulldogs took a step back, 
ﬁ  nishing the year 
at 87th in total yards per game 
allowed. That was mostly due to a pass defense that ranked 117th 
out of 128 FBS teams. The Bulldogs were ranked 44th in rush defense 
nationally.
One week after Collins was 
hired, McElwain hired Michigan 
offensive coordinator Doug Nuss-meier to the same position.
Nussmeier worked with McEl-
wain at Michigan State from 2003-2005, serving as the team’s quarter-backs coach.
“I’m excited to reunite with 
Coach Mac — we obviously have a long history and share similar philosophies,” Nussmeier said in a release. “I’m honored to join The Gator Nation and work for one of the most storied programs in all of college football.”
Nussmeier succeeded McElwain 
as Alabama’s offensive coordinator after McElwain became the head coach at Colorado State.
During his two years at Alabama 
(2012-2013), Nussmeier coached the 33rd ranked offense in 2013- and 31st-ranked offense in 2012. 
Both of those teams were also in 
the top 20 in scoring offense.
During the 2012 season in which 
the Crimson Tide won their most recent national championship, the Nussmeier-led Alabama offense racked up 68 total touchdowns.
His offense featured a 30-touch-
down quarterback (AJ McCarron), two running backs with double-dig-
it touchdown runs (Eddie Lacy, 17; 
T.J. Yeldon, 12) and a wide receiver with double-digit touchdown catch-es (Amari Cooper, 11).
“Doug and I have worked togeth-er on the same staff and I’ve known him for years,” McElwain said in a release. “We are like thinkers in that 
he will adapt to the players we have 
in the program and develop them as we continue to evolve.”
UF conﬁ  rmed the remainder of 
McElwain’s coaching staff on Mon-day.
These hires include Colorado 
State’s Tim Skipper as running backs coach and Mike Kent as direc-
tor of strength and conditioning, Ar-
kansas coach Randy Shannon as as-sociate head coach and linebackers coach, UCF’s Kirk Callahan as the secondary coach, Western Kentucky coach Greg Nord as tight ends and special teams coach and Oakland Raiders coach Terrell Williams as defensive line coach.
UF offensive line coach Mike 
Summers is the only coach return-ing from the 2014 staff, and the only position coach that has yet to be con-ﬁ  rmed is a wide receivers coach.
McElwain revamps football coaching staff, makes hires
McElwain
UF W omen’s 
Bask etballJORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — In many 
ways, offensive lineman Max Garcia 
can be considered an exception to the rule.
After he transferred to UF from 
the University of Maryland in 2012, he faced an uphill battle.
“I just thought I needed a fresh 
start, to my whole life pretty much,” Garcia said. “I was willing to do whatever it took to make it happen and to live it out on a more positive note.”
He needed to learn a brand new 
system, work with a new coach and build relationships with a whole new group of players.
Transfers do not always find suc-
cess.
But that wasn’t the case for Gar-
cia.
“My time at Florida has just been 
all positive,” Garcia said. “It just 
made me a better person, a better 
athlete, a better student, just overall a better person.”
During his three years at Florida, 
Garcia learned to play every posi-tion along the offensive line.
He started playing left tackle on 
the scout team during the 2012 sea-son, which he had to sit out due to 
NCAA transfer rules.
But as the season began to wind down, then-UF offensive line coach 
Tim Davis proposed that Garcia shift inside to play guard.The Norcross, Georgia, native 
started seven games at left guard in the 2013 season before injuries began to plague the offensive line, forcing Garcia to move back outside and play left tackle for five games.And after Jonotthan Harrison 
finished his career at Florida and the Gators were in desperate need of a center, then-head coach Will Mus-champ knew where to turn.
“I kind of laughed at that,” Gar-
cia said. 
“I just never thought I’d play 
center my senior year. It ended up being a good decision.”
D.J. Durkin, Florida’s interim 
head coach, admired Garcia’s work ethic throughout his three years in Gainesville.
“He’s been a great leader for us, 
and a great guy that leads by ex-ample,” Durkin said. “Anytime you have a guy that performs that con-sistently in practice and game in and game out, it’s a great guy to point to for the rest of your team and say that’s what we’re looking for.”
Garcia’s time at Florida may be 
over, but his career is just getting 
started.
Garcia tweeted after Florida’s 28-
20 Birmingham Bowl victory on Sat-
urday that he received an invitation to participate in the Senior Bowl.
“I just, really, just understand 
how valuable and how crazy it is to get a second chance,” Garcia said. “All the people around me have just 
supported me and just gave me the 
opportunity to be successful. That’s something that I’m going to take with me.”TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 23 
Megan Reeves / Alligator Staff
UF center Max Garcia (76) prepares to block an ECU defender during Florida’s 28-20 win against East 
Carolina in the Birmingham Bowl on Saturday at Legion Field. Since transferring from Maryland in 2012, Garcia embraced his time at UF while learning to play every position along the offensive line.
Max Garcia cherishes time at UF after transferring from Maryland
STAFF REPORT
 
D.J. Humphries will not be returning for 
his senior season.
The junior offensive lineman announced 
Sunday night via Twitter that he is heading to 
the NFL Draft.
“GATOR NATION This has been the best 
3 years of my life. But now, I feel it’s time to move on! I’ll always be a gator for LIFE! #Fair-wellUF” Humphries tweeted at 10:56 p.m. Sunday.
Humphries was a key component of Flor-
ida’s offensive line over the past two seasons.
A five-star recruit and the No. 2 prospect 
out of Union (N.C.) Mallard Creek High, 
Humphries made an immediate impact for Florida’s offensive line. He saw action in all 13 
games in 2012, including making starts against 
South Carolina, Missouri and Louisiana. He 
finished the season on the Southeastern Con-ference All-Freshman team.
Humphries became Florida’s permanent 
starting left tackle in the 2013 season.
But his season ended after suffering a 
sprained MCL during a practice in late Octo-ber. He played in seven games, starting six at left tackle.
The 6-foot-5, 295-pound Humphries start-
ed 10 of Florida’s 12 games this season at left tackle, missing UF’s road trips to Alabama and Tennessee with a high-ankle sprain.
Humphries is the fourth Gator to forgo his 
final season at UF and head off to the NFL, joining Buck linebacker Dante Fowler Jr., run-ning back Matt Jones and offensive lineman Tyler 
Moore.
With Humphries for-
going his senior season, 
Florida will be without four of its five starting offensive lineman from the 2014 sea-son.
Trip Thurman, who started every game at 
left guard, is the only one returning.
In total, UF has just three returning line-
men with ample playing time at the collegiate level (also Rod Johnson and David Sharpe).
Florida has three offensive linemen ver-
bal commitments in its 2015 class — Michael Horton, Tyler Jordan and Brandon Sandifer. All three are three-star prospects, according to Rivals.com.
Players who plan to declare early have un-
til Jan. 15 to file declaration papers.
Bullard to return for senior season: Junior 
defensive lineman Jon Bullard announced Monday that he will not declare early for the NFL Draft and instead will return to Florida for his senior season.
“I wasn’t projected to go where I want to 
go,’’ Bullard said in a release. “I want to leave a bigger mark on the Florida program than 
what I have.”
Bullard finished his junior season with a 
career-high 52 tackles, including eight-and-a-
half tackles for loss.
In Florida’s 28-20 win in the Birmingham 
Bowl against East Carolina, Bullard recorded six tackles and one of UF’s four sacks. Humphries declares for NFL Draft; Bullard to return to UF
Humphries
24, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
 HE FINISHED THE YEAR 
WITH 101 TACKLES.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — Antonio 
Morrison went down hard on Satur-
day.
At the beginning of the second 
quarter in Florida’s 28-20 victory against East Carolina in the Bir-mingham Bowl, the junior lineback-
er injured his left knee attempting 
a tackle and did not return to the game.
“I can’t say enough about that 
kid,” UF interim head coach D.J. 
Durkin said following the game. 
“He’s very special to me. We’ve been together here the whole time. What-ever it is, how serious it is, I know 
one thing. There’s not a tougher 
guy in this country than Antonio. So whatever it is, he’ll bounce back from it and be back playing 100 per-cent somewhere sometime soon.”
Morrison ﬁ  nished the season 
with 101 total tackles, becoming the ﬁ  rst UF defensive player to crack the century mark since Ahmad Black re-corded 108 in the 2010 season.
An a-Maye-zing closing: Marcus 
Maye had a ﬁ  eld day on Saturday.
The redshirt sophomore defen-sive back recorded a team-high-ty-ing eight tackles — seven of which 
were solo stops — and a game-best 
two pass breakups against ECU.“I was trying to make plays, and 
coach was putting us in the right po-
sitions,” Maye said. “I was just out 
there to do my job and knock down as many balls as I could.”
Maye ﬁ  nished the season with 62 
tackles — including a team-high 38 unassisted stops — ﬁ  ve pass break-ups, two forced fumbles and an in-terception.
T-Rob to Auburn: Secondary 
coach Travaris Robinson has re-joined forces with Will Muschamp.
Auburn University announced 
on Saturday that the UF defensive 
backs coach will join the Tigers staff 
to the same position.
Robinson played college foot-
ball at Auburn from 1999-2002 and spent the last four years as Florida’s 
secondary coach under Muschamp.
“Auburn has provided me so 
many opportunities and I’m excited 
to be able to give back to a place that 
has meant so much to me,” Robin-
son said in a news release. “I have a lot of respect for Coach (Gus) Mal-zahn and I’m looking forward to working for him. My family and I 
are glad to be back home.”
During each of his four years at 
UF, Florida’s defense ranked in the 
top 30 in opponent passing efﬁ  -
ciency, peaking at No. 2 in the 2012 
season.TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 25 
Megan Reeves / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman Caleb Brantley watches as linebacker Antonio Morrison is carted off the ﬁ  eld during Florida’s 28-20 
win against East Carolina in Saturday’s Birmingham Bowl at Legion Field. Morrison suffered a left knee injury and did not return to the game. He ﬁ  nished the season with a team-high 101 tackles.
Notebook: Antonio Morrison injures knee in Birmingham Bowl
GYMNASTICS
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Every team enters the season hoping to 
win a championship.
Only one enters the year with the privi-
lege to hope for a repeat.
But when talking about the chance to 
win three straight titles, you have truly 
reached rare air.
That is the place the UF gymnastics 
program ﬁ  nds itself at the start of the 2015 season.
After winning the school’s ﬁ  rst national 
championship in 2013, head coach Rhonda 
Faehn went right back for a second help-
ing, guiding her team to a another title in 2014, sharing this one with the Oklahoma Sooners after both teams posted a winning score of 198.175.
Winning three titles in a row has only 
been accomplished twice in the 33 years in which women’s gymnastics has been a championship sport under the NCAA, but the Gators’ chances of doing so are incred-
ibly realistic.
In fact, they are the pre-season favor-
ites.
Florida enters the season ranked No. 1, 
earning 19 of 31 ﬁ  rst place votes in the ﬁ  rst 
poll of the year. 
Co-defending champion Oklahoma is 
closely behind at No. 2, followed by LSU, Alabama and UCLA.
The Gators will see plenty of challenges during the season, how-ever, as they will have a 
road meet against each 
top-ﬁ  ve team except 
UCLA. Seven of UF’s 10 regular season oppo-nents are ranked in the 
top 25.
To handle such a 
daunting task, the Gators will need to rely 
on the team’s veterans.
Florida returns nine players from its 
2014 title campaign, including junior Bridget Sloan and senior Kytra Hunter. 
Sloan is a 16-time All-American and 
was the 2014 NCAA uneven bars champi-
on as a sophomore. She was also the 2013 all-around and balance beam champion 
in her freshman year and part of the 2008 
U.S. Olympic team that took home silver 
in Beijing.
Hunter is an 18-time All-American who 
was part of the All-Southeastern Confer-ence team last season, an honor she has 
earned in each of her three seasons. She 
also led the nation with six perfect marks last year — four on the ﬂ  oor and two on vault.
Florida’s ﬁ  rst match of the year is 
against Ball State in Muncie, Indiana, on Sunday, and the Gators ﬁ  rst home match is the following Friday night, Jan. 16, against the 12th-ranked Auburn Tigers.Eyeing a three-peat: Previewing the 2015 Florida gymnastics team
Sloan
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
UNIVERSITY COMMONS
across from campus
4/2 $325 includes util/room
First month FREE
Call Ralph 239-370-8735     1-6-14-17-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
FIRST MONTH FREE! 2/2 all inclusive in 2nd Ave Center:5min walk to Downtown/15min 
walk to Midtown. Lots of amenities! Call 386-
405-1658    1-6-7-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 
whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for all bus routes. Resort-style living at University Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer 
included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
Quality Houses Available Soon
For fall 2015. Walk or bike to UF.
www.GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.com. Text or call 352-339-2342    1-6-14-17-2
2BR Contemporary Cottage $650
4BR House $950
Small pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    1-6-14-7-2
1BR/1BA apt. $385/mo. Located at 500 SW 69th St, Gainseville. AKA - Holly Heights - $200 deposit. Email jholifield1@gmail.com - text 352-356-0404.   1-6-14-6-24BR/2BA AVAILABLE NOW.
1043 NE 10th Ave. 1 mile from campus. Close to bus stop. $795/mo + $795 deposit. Or 2 roommates $395/ea. Jack 602-732-8863    1-6-14-5-2.
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Newly renovated 2BR/2BA condo in 
Timberway. Close to Millhopper. W/D in-
cluded. $850/mo. Deposit required. Pets ok. 
352-222-8380    1-6-14-4-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy 
fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1660/mo 3413 
NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.
com 352-339-2342    1-9-14-4-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short 
walk to bus stop, large yard for fun or garden, 
fireplace, dishwasher, game room, central 
heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo 
text or call 352-339-2342    1-9-14-4-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 27
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-9-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
28, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation And CommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled  $8/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-9-14-11-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred.Email resume to:    drpohani@gmail.com     1-6-14-6-14
Part-time help needed over holidays at horse boarding farm in Newberry. Opportunity to continue employment farther. Great way to make extra money! Experience with horses required. Please contact farm manager at khcherokee@aol.com    1-6-14-6-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-ganization. Must have a background in ed or a student in the college of ed.email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   1-20-14-10-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
CASH PAID TODAYFor unused and unexpired Diabetic Test 
Strips, Lancets and Pen needles. Test Strip 
Partners @ 352-672-2092. Call for a Free 
Quote Now. We will come to you with Cash    
1-6-14-12-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Are you or someone you know pregnant & 
considering adoption? I was adopted as a baby. I would love for us to talk, text & create an adoption plan. I'm close with my family and friends, college-educated, finan-cially secure, live in an eclectic NYC neigh -
borhood. I'm ready for the joys & challenges of parenting. My future child will have every opportunity to have a wonderful fulfilled life. I'll share my interests in travel, sports, cook-ing, animals.  Baby will grow to love his/her birth family and mine. I will assist with living expenses. Please call/text Karen at 908-899-1529.  FLBAR474835.    1-6-14-2-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
UF quarterback Jeff 
Driskel is transferring to Louisiana Tech. Read 
the story on Page 20.UF 2016 recruit decommits
Chauncey Gardner, the No. 3 ranked cornerback in the class of 2016, decommited from Florida on Monday, 247sports.com reported.JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — Head-
ing into Florida’s meeting with East Carolina in Saturday’s Bir-mingham Bowl, the Gators’ men-
tality could have been questioned.
It was another bad season by 
Florida standards — a 6-5 regular 
season to them is unacceptable.
The players could have checked 
out, opting to put minimal effort 
into the game.
A Jim McElwain-led coaching 
staff waited in the wings, pre-
paring to take over a struggling 
Gators program once the game at 
Legion Field concluded.
But instead of brushing the 
game off, the Gators (7-5) ended 
their season with a bang, defeating 
the Pirates (8-5) 28-20 in Birming-
ham to clinch their ﬁ  rst bowl vic-
tory since 2011.
“Coming into the game, we 
knew what we were getting into,” said redshirt sophomore Marcus 
Maye. “We all decided to rally 
together and play for each other 
and the coaching staff. We wanted 
to go out at the end of the season with a win, so that’s what we came together for and accomplished.”
In the process, Florida’s young-
er players who are returning to the McElwain regime showcased that McElwain has a group with poten-tial to grow.
Sophomore Ahmad Fulwood 
scored on an 86-yard catch-and-
Megan Reeves / Alligator Staff
UF offensive lineman D.J. Humphries holds up the Birmingham Bowl trophy following Florida’s 28-20 win against East Carolina on Jan. 3 at Legion Field while his teammates celebrate. UF’s bowl win marked its ﬁ  rst postseason victory since winning the 2011 Gator Bowl.
Underclassmen show promise in Birmingham Bowl victory
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
The Gators had a full winter break 
as they tackled their ﬁ  nal four non-
conference games of the season. Flor-ida (7-6) saw mixed results with two losses and two wins over the past three 
weeks.
Florida defeated Jacksonville 79-34 
in Gainesville on Dec. 14 and Wake 
Forest 63-50 in Sunrise at the Orange Bowl Classic on Dec. 20, but the victo-ries ended there.
Florida fell to Florida State 65-63 
in Tallahassee at the buzzer on Dec. 30. The Gators returned to Gainesville 
only to lose to UConn 63-59 on Satur-
day.
Coach Billy Donovan is preaching moving past the struggles the Gators faced over winter break and in their non-conference schedule.
“This is a consistency issue in my 
opinion,” Donovan said. “It’s an issue 
of when things are not going your way 
or you are not playing like you need to play or want to play can you actu-ally move past that and not become so self-absorbed with yourself and how it’s impacting you in a lot of ways. Can you move past that?”
Redshirt junior forward Alex Mur-
phy has a few things to move past 
after just making his Florida debut 
against Wake Forest. In the 60 min-utes he’s spent on the court this sea-son, the 6-foot-8 forward is averaging UF hoops ready to move onSEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 31
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 31AIR JORDAN
It’s a cold world out there, Gator fans.
I know that’s how you feel.And just as the temperatures here in 
Gainesville continue to provide a chill in the air, it could seem as if Florida athletics have 
become ice cold, frozen from the ability to ﬁ  nd 
success. Well, that’d be wrong.
Sure, the football team had (another) unsat-
isfying season and the men’s basketball team was unable to ﬁ  nd any form of consistency dur-ing its non-conference slate.
But instead of solely focusing the cold front 
that is swirling around those two programs and considering this a down year in UF athlet-
ics, look at all the teams that are riding a hot 
hand.
The volleyball team went undefeated in 
Southeastern Conference play for the ﬁ  rst time since 2010 and reached the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament for the ﬁ  rst time since 2011.
The soccer team also reached the Elite Eight this season, mark-ing its deepest run in the NCAA Tour-nament since the 2003 season.
In fact, the 
Gators have more teams getting ready to kick off their seasons than I can count on one hand 
that have the potential to break through for a national championship this season.
The two-time defending national champion 
Florida gymnastics team is working to become just the third team to complete a three-peat, and Rhonda Faehn’s squad is full of talent.
The Gators return senior Kytra Hunter and 
junior Bridget Sloan, and a tandem that com-bined for eight perfect scores last season.UF teams aim for spring success
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
SEE WELCOME, PAGE 31
Tweetable
“I’m with coach Mac !!!” 
Kelvin Taylor (@Kelvintaylor21) 
UF running back
30, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
Florida finishes 
season with 
Birmingham Bowl win
TOP LEFT: Florida players celebrate during the trophy presentation.
TOP RIGHT: UF freshman running back Brandon Powell catches a touchdown pass from quarterback 
Treon Harris.
MIDDLE LEFT: UF quarterback Jeff Driskel, who replaced Treon Harris in the third quarter after Harris 
suffered a shoulder injury, drops back to pass.
BOTTOM LEFT: Birmingham Bowl spectators watch the game in the rain.BOTTOM RIGHT: UF linebacker Alex Anzalone (34) tackles an East Carolina player.
Photos by Megan Reeves / Alligator Staffrun, UF’s longest play from 
scrimmage this season and the sixth longest pass play in program history.
Sophomore wide receiver 
Demarcus Robinson and red-shirt freshman offensive line-
man Rod Johnson provided 
key blocks along the way for 
that play.
And redshirt freshman 
running back Adam Lane, 
who had just nine carries for 
72 yards all season leading up 
to Saturday, took the bulk of 
the snaps in the backﬁ  eld with starter Matt Jones nursing a 
shoulder injury and Kelvin 
Taylor struggling to produce.
The 5-foot-7, 222-pound 
Lane ended the game with 
109 yards and a touchdown 
on 16 carries en route to being 
named the Birmingham Bowl 
Most Valuable Player.
“It felt great,” Lane said. 
“It just built a bigger ﬁ  re in 
me.”
The defense survived the 
offensive assault that came at 
the hands of East Carolina.
The Pirates managed 101 
plays and 536 yards of total offense — numbers that are uncharacteristically high for a Gators defense that ranked 
ninth in the country heading 
into the game.
But Florida’s defense made the plays when needed.
Cornerback Brian Poole 
forced the ﬁ  rst turnover of 
the game, intercepting ECU quarterback Shane Carden and returning it 29 yards for a touchdown.
Linebackers Alex Anza-
lone and Daniel McMillian saw increased playing time after defensive leader Anto-nio Morrison left the game with a knee injury in the sec-ond quarter.
True freshman Gerald 
Willis forced a driving East Carolina offense to fumble on the goal line, saving a poten-tial seven points from hitting the scoreboard, and Vernon 
Hargreaves all but ended the 
game with an interception in 
the end zone with 1:20 left on the clock.
“There’s great talent 
there,” Durkin said. “And I 
think even more important 
than the talent is the amount of character on this team. This would have been an easy situ-
ation not to go out and com-
pete and play like we did.”
And if Saturday was any 
indication, the best is yet to 
come. 
“We went out and emptied 
our minds of everything and went out there and played,” Lane said. “We worked hard on the ﬁ  eld and tried to get a win, and that was our main focus.” TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 31
Kan Li / Alligator
Alex Murphy attempts a free throw during Florida’s 63-59 loss to Connecticut on Saturday in the O’Connell Center. Murphy missed both of his attempts late in Saturday’s loss that could have given the Gators the lead.
Alex Murphy missed free throws in loss 
5.3 points with a .417 ﬁ  eld goal percentage and a .545 
mark at the charity stripe. Murphy missed two free throws against UConn on Saturday that could have given Florida the lead and the win.
Senior forward Jacob Kurtz is in a similar situa-
tion after tipping in a Florida State basket during the ﬁ  nal seconds of the game. In an attempt to secure a rebound, he instead secured a win for the Seminoles. Donovan questioned if the walk-on could move past the play, but he said he believes Kurtz has rebounded from the rebound-gone-wrong.
“I have a totally different view because I think you 
can get so caught up into the result and we all want to have the same result but at the same point, they’ve got to have the correct, competitive disposition. We don’t have that. We don’t,” Donovan said. “We need to be more connected. We need to help each other more. We need to get out of ourselves. We need to start making each other better. We need to start helping. Those are the things I’m more concerned about.”
The Gators hit the road for their ﬁ  rst Southeastern 
Conference matchup against South Carolina (9-3) on Wednesday.
“In a lot of ways, to me, our conference schedule 
started right when he came out of that three-game home stand. It started to me when we played Wake Forest in Sunrise. It started when we played UConn on Saturday,” Donovan said. “So we’ve kind of be-ing in it with the teams we’ve played against. We are starting in terms of we’re playing for something now.”
HOOPS , from page 29
FOOTBALL , 
from page 29Adam Lane ran for 
109 yards in win
Gators softball, gymnastics are defending national champions
WELCOME , from page 29
The softball team routed the Women’s 
College World Series in 2014, going 5-0 in the 
tournament to win its ﬁ  rst national title.
While Florida loses WCWS Most Out-
standing Player Hannah Rogers — a righty 
who will go down in history as one of the best 
female athletes to ever step foot on UF’s cam-pus — UF returns the bulk of its roster.
Included in that group is junior Kelsey 
Stewart, owner of a half-dozen UF batting re-cords; senior Lauren Haeger, who is 14 home runs away from breaking a Florida record that was set by Megan Bush, who hit 65 from 2008-2011; and sophomore Delanie Gourley, Flor-ida’s ﬁ  rst southpaw in Tim Walton’s tenure who will provide a valuable one-two punch in the circle with Haeger.
The lacrosse team was a double-overtime 
game against Northwestern away from ad-vancing to its second Final Four in its young career. And with Tewaaraton ﬁ  nalist Shan-non Gilroy, senior Nora Barry and sophomore Sammi Burgess returning, the Gators look poised to go on another deep postseason run.
Add in baseball, women’s tennis and both 
track and ﬁ  eld teams, and the Gators have a deep group of teams that can all easily vie for the top spot in their respective sports.
So stay warm out there, Gator fans, and get 
ready to start seeing some teams get hot.alligatorSports Staff on Twitter
 Jordan McPherson (alligatorSports editor/    
   Baseball) @J_McPherson1126  Graham Hall – (alligatorSports Assistant 
   Editor/Women’s basketball) @Graham311 Ian Cohen – (alligatorSports.org Editor/ 
   Baseball) @ICohenB Erica A. Hernandez – (Men’s Basketball) 
@EricaAlyssa
 Richard Johnson – (Men’s Basketball and  
   Football) @ragjUF Morgan Moriarty – (Football/Recruiting) 
@Morgan_Moriarty
 Luis Torres (Softball) @LFTorresIII Patrick Pinak (Softball) @pinakk12
 Alex Maminakis (Lacrosse) 
  @alexmaminakis Graham Hack – Writer (Gymnastics) 
   @graham_hack24
 Kyle Brutman – Writer (Track and Field) 
   @KBrut13
 Caylee Underwood – Writer (Tennis) 
   @CayUnderwood Mary Francis – Writer (Swimming and 
   Diving) @_maryfrancis32, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
