VOLUME 109 ISSUE 113 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Law school reopens dean search, picks semi-ﬁ  nalists
The candidates will be interviewed this weekend, pg 3.  
Local course, concerts promote women’s history
UF Enactus is one organization advocating this month, pg 5. 
88/64
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13UF entering SEC Tournament ﬁ  ghting to keep season alive
UF is the No. 8 seed in the tournament, pg. 13. Florida diver 
Khalia Warner 
qualiﬁ  ed for the 
NCAA Tournament 
on Monday. Read 
the story on page 
15.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Sea Chanters
The U.S. Navy Band Sea Chanters sing “If You Visit Me” by Kevin Memley, a song based on the death by Hovannes Toumanian, in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Monday. The chorus performed hymns, patriotic songs and contemporary covers.
CAMPUS
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
The anti-abortion campaign is 
returning to UF’s free-speech zones this week with a new tactic.
Anti-abortion organization Cre-
ated Equal will show a real abortion on a Jumbotron-like system from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas.
Mark Harrington, national direc-
tor of the Ohio-based group, said it’s not a huge departure from what it usually does.
“It’s just important for people 
to understand the actual procedure and see it, see what it is,” Harrington said.
Created Equal visits UF frequent-
ly with signs showing graphic abor-tion images. This will be going on today and Wednesday as well.
He said Created Equal visits UF 
because it’s a large public univer-sity in a key political state. The more common view on campus is prob-ably pro-choice, he said, and the or-ganization is trying to offer a coun-tervailing view, raise awareness and create dialogue.
“We believe this is what the uni-
versity should be about,” he said. “It’s a marketplace for ideas. It’s the place where topics like abortions should be discussed intellectually, and to be using the victim imagery only makes sense.”
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said it will be graphic, but Created Equal went through the same ap-proval process as any other organi-zation that wants to book the plaza.
“If you don’t want to see it, don’t 
walk over there,” she said.
Organization to show abortion video on Plaza of the Americas
JUSTIN ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ride-sharing companies, such as Uber 
and Lyft, could soon face statewide policies 
that would overrule any local legislation put in place by Gainesville and other cities.
SB 1326, sponsored by Sen. Jeff Brandes, 
R-St. Petersburg, is meant to end any existing problems among ride-sharing services and state regulators over safety issues like back-ground checks and insurance coverage.
Under the bill that was ﬁ  led toward the 
end of February, drivers would only take business through the mobile application and would avoid doing business in the streets. Multistate background checks for drivers 
would also be required to view employees’ 
driving histories and any criminal records.
Uber drivers are independent contractors 
who use their own vehicles when working. A customer can use a phone app to request a ride and can then track the driver’s progress to his or her location.
But it’s hard to run a company like Uber 
or Lyft when there are varying laws across 
different Florida cities, Brandes said. This is 
why he’s making the argument for statewide Ride-sharing 
biz could see state regulation
SEE UBER, PAGE 4
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Second lady Jill Biden said she 
felt a close connection to the inno-
vation at Santa Fe College during her visit Monday morning to learn 
about the school’s success.
Biden and Under Secretary of Education Ted Mitchell attended a roundtable discussion with students 
and faculty to see how Santa Fe helps students graduate or transfer to four-year colleges. Santa Fe Presi-dent Jackson Sasser welcomed the two prominent education ﬁ  gures, calling their visit a historical mo-ment for the college.Biden teaches 
English at North-ern Virginia 
Community Col-lege, which is just outside of Wash-ington, D.C. An advocate for community col-leges, Biden chose to visit Santa Fe 
during her Spring Break to hear 
from students about the college’s successful programs that have pro-pelled students to graduate or trans-fer to universities such as UF.
“The type of innovative strate-
gies and the use of innovative tech-nology to improve student success that we are learning here today is 
really close to my heart,” Biden said 
during the discussion.
Last year, the Aspen Institute, an 
organization that studies education, ranked Santa Fe among the top 10 colleges nationwide for its student success, which is determined by 
Jill Biden visits SFC for discussion on community college impact
Biden
SEE BIDEN, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 113 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
THUNDER-
STORMS
84/63PARTLY 
CLOUDY
84/63THUNDER-
STORMS
88/64THUNDER-
STORMS
88/64SUNNY
88/64
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Pi Day 2015 at UF
Come out and celebrate Pi 
Day a day early Friday, from 11:45 a.m. until 3 p.m. at the Marston Science Library — 
CSE Building Overhang. 
Dean of University Libraries Judith Russell and Provost Dr. Joseph Glover will kick off the event, followed by tabling, pie fundraising, con-tests and refreshments. An awards ceremony and clos-ing remarks will be held at 
2:45. Free and open to the 
public.
Scholarly Communications in 
the age of Big Data — Rules of Practical Information EconomicsA presentation by Dr. Micah Altman, director of research 
and head/scientist, Program 
on Information Science for the MIT Libraries, will be 11 a.m. Friday in Marston Science Library, conference room 136. More content is being created by scientists and scholars than ever — and vastly greater collec-
tions of information are the 
subject of science as schol-arship. Simultaneously, the use of this information and the community of users are changing. This talk reflects on trends in the generation and use of durable informa-tion assets in scholarship 
and science and on under-
standing the changing rela-tionship between consum-ers, purchasers and funders. Sponsored by the George A. Smathers Libraries.
Gator Nights
Watch your favorite series 
obsessions come to life at this 
one-of-a-kind event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. Immerse yourself in Harry Potter with Hogwarts let-ters and Quidditch. Enter the “Fandom Zone” and partici-pate in Star Wars laser tag or Star Trek photos. Create your 
very own Lord of the Rings 
“One Ring to Rule Them All” at Stamp-a-Ring. The night will also include a costume contest with awesome prizes and free food! Stick around for a hilarious performance WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome Cinema presents 
‘She’s Beautiful When She’s Angry’ and Q&A sessionThe Hippodrome Cinema’s next Cinema Lounge presents 
“She’s Beautiful When She’s 
Angry” followed by an in-person Q&A session today at 7:30 p.m. The film resurrects the buried history of the outra-geous, often brilliant women who founded the modern women’s movement from 1966 to 1971. Q&A session speakers 
include Kathie Sarachild, of 
Redstockings of the Women’s Liberation Movement; Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons, Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) project leader dur-ing Mississippi Freedom Summer, 1964; and Kendra 
Vincent, of National Women’s 
Liberation. Admission is $10. The Hippodrome Cinema is lo-cated inside the Hippodrome State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete listing of films and additional show-times, please visit thehipp.org
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets TuesdaysTalking Gators meets today at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the Entomology Building off of Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. For more information, go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org. Talking Gators 
is also on Facebook. The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to pro-vide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and 
personal growth. All are wel-
come.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college stu-dents, especially when strug-gling with a queer identity as a woman on top of work, classes 
and internships. Finding op-
portunities to socialize with other queer women and release stress is hard. LGBT Affairs is offering a weekly discus-sion group that will connect you with other queer ladies in the area to chat, hang out and learn more about yourself and 
others. It is 7:30 p.m. every 
Wednesday in Peabody Hall’s Rainbow Room.from Theatre Strike Force at 10 p.m., and watch Selma at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. We’re al-
ways Friday, always free, with your Gator 1 Card.
Apply Now for 2015-16 Financial 
AidTo apply for 2015-16 finan-cial aid, complete the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.
ed.gov. UF’s “on-time” dead-line to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is Sunday. Students should complete a FAFSA well before Sunday to ensure that the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results 
of your FAFSA to UF Student 
Financial Affairs.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator 
Dancing Dragon
Xuan Ooi (center) and Yvonne Yeung (left), both 18-year-old UF English freshmen, perform a traditional Chinese 
dragon dance on Turlington Plaza on Monday. Jia-Uei Chen, 18, also a UF English freshman, pounds the beat of the dance on a drum. The group was a part of the Chinese American Student Association.
CRIME
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a Fort 
Lauderdale man Monday morning af-
ter he reportedly had numerous coun-terfeit checks, credit card skimmer de-vices and fake information on multiple 
credit and debit cards in his car.
Just before 3 a.m., police stopped 
Edwin Rattray, 34, at 700 W. Universi-
ty Ave. for driving with illegal tinting on his 2010 Cadillac car. After police dog Argos smelled marijuana around  the car, ofﬁ  cers searched and found the drug, according to a police report.
When police searched the car’s 
trunk, they found a credit card skim-mer, which is used to store credit card information. Ofﬁ  cers also found an 
encoder, which transfers information 
from one credit card to another, and several sheets of blank check printing paper, according to the report. Author-ities also found three checks belonging to a Miami man and a construction company in the trunk, which police determined were counterfeit.
In Rattray’s wallet, ofﬁ  cers found 
two credit cards that, despite having Rattray’s name and information on the physical cards, had the names and information of different people when swiped, according to the report. 
A receipt found in the car had two 
account numbers written on it that matched the information on the cards, which police said proved that an en-coder was used to put fake informa-
tion on the card.
Rattray was previously found guilty 
of counterfeiting a driver’s license and 
fraudulently obtaining property in June.Police seized Rattray’s car and $1,200 in cash for possible forfeiture.
Police charged Rattray with six 
counts of counterfeiting, six counts of fraud and possession of counterfeit-
ing tools. Authorities also charged the 
car’s only passenger, Eric Robinson, 31, with marijuana possession after of-ﬁ  cers found two grams of marijuana in a small bag in his left shoe. 
Ofﬁ  cers took both men to the Ala-
chua County Jail where they remained as of press time with unspeciﬁ  ed bonds.
Fla man arrested on counterfeit chargesCYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
The UF Levin College of Law is one step closer to select-
ing a new dean.
After an initial search unearthed three candidates before 
being called off last year, a new search committee has se-lected 10 semi-ﬁ  nalists to interview at the university.
The interviews will be held at 8 a.m. Friday and Satur-
day at the University Hilton, said Donna Winchester, stra-tegic communications director.
In order to choose the semi-ﬁ  nalists, Winchester said the 
search committee looked at candidates’ cover letters, pub-lications and whether they had experience at a university 
similar to UF.
“They’re looking for a strong candidate, someone who 
has both academic as well as administrative experience, 
who will move the law school to the next level,” Winchester said.
The committee, which is co-chaired by College of Jour-
nalism and Communications Dean Diane McFarlin and law professor Robert Rhee, is approaching this as a brand-new search.
The committee will narrow the ﬁ  eld of candidates and 
invite the ﬁ  nalists to further interviews.
Second-year law student Jessica Kramer, 23, said the 
new dean should have an understanding of the students.
“One thing that I was looking for when I was looking at 
different law schools to go to was the different interactions 
between administration and students,” she said. “I think 
that as long as the administration maintains the transpar-ency that they have with choosing a dean (in the past), the students will be happy.”Levin reopens 
search for dean,picks semi-ﬁ  nalists
Law School Dean semi-ﬁ  nalists
 Craig Boise: Cleveland State University
 Michael Cahill: Brooklyn Law School 
 Laura Rosenbury: Washington University Law School 
 Jennifer Bard: Texas Tech University School of Law  Mark Alexander: Seton Hall University School of Law 
 Charles Tabb: University of Illinois School of Law 
 George Kuney: University of Tennessee College of Law Phillip Closius: University of Baltimore School of Law
 Darryll Jones: Florida A&M University College of Law 
 Daniel Crane: University of Michigan Law School 4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Second lady Jill Biden speaks to students and faculty at a roundtable discussion 
at Santa Fe College on Monday morning. The discussion focused on learning how Santa Fe helps students graduate or transfer to four-year colleges.
The roundtable stressed the importance of colleges for jobs
overall graduation and transfer rates, stu-
dent advisement and monitoring programs and their transfer pathways with four-year colleges.
Biden stressed the importance of com-
munity colleges, saying by 2020, two-thirds of job openings “will require some form of higher education.”
According to a White House press release, 
40 percent of the United States’ undergradu-ate students attend community colleges. 
Biden said less than half will graduate 
or transfer to a four-year school within six years.
“We have a lot of work to do to increase 
retention, completion and overall student success at community colleges,” Biden said.
Student panelists speaking at the discus-
sion cited the college advisers and their re-lationships with them as a huge reason for their success. 
The panelists also said Santa Fe served as 
an easy transition step from high school to a 
four-year college.Erica Laboissoniere, 40, was one of the 
student panelists. When she first arrived at 
Santa Fe, she questioned her decision to en-roll.  
A mother of three and nearly a high school 
dropout, Laboissoniere said she thought to herself when she first got to Santa Fe, 
“There’s no way I can do this.”
But Laboissoniere finished her first se-
mester with a 4.0 GPA, and that’s when she 
thought to herself, “Maybe I can do this,” she said.
Laboissoniere became a student ambassa-
dor and then joined the honors program. She developed relationships with advisers and faculty who encouraged her to work hard.
She graduated in December 2012, citing 
those relationships as one of the biggest rea-sons.
The relationships she formed at Santa Fe, 
Laboissoniere said, lifted her to a place that she never thought possible.
Acea Ash, 19, attended the discussion as 
part of his American history class.
“It’s always nice to hear what higher-ups 
in the government have to say about school,” the psychology freshman said. BIDEN , from page 1LOCAL
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
City and county commissioners debated 
intentions for the camping area around Grace Marketplace at a joint meeting Monday after-noon.
City workers presented information about 
the homeless shelter and the area surrounding it. Also on the agenda was an update on us-ing Lot 10 on the corner of Southwest Second Street and Southwest First Avenue for multi-purpose events like the Union Street Farmers 
Market, which moved from its home on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza to accomodate 
renovations to the downtown space.
Betty Baker, the city’s temporary project manager, is currently drafting recommenda-tions on how to handle the 10-acre camp in the woods around the center — a new tent city known as Dignity Village.
This spurred discussion among commis-
sioners about the exact purpose of Dignity Vil-
lage and how it should develop.
City Commissioner Todd Chase said he is 
concerned about the camping on the land be-
cause there is no direct governing body and therefore no accountability. It is unaffiliated with Grace Marketplace, so Grace does not have control over the area.
Even though no official governing body ex-
ists, Baker mentioned that self-governance has 
risen through necessity.
Jon DeCarmine, co-director for the Ala-chua County Coalition for the Homeless and 
Hungry, said, “It’s in the first stages of a com-munity creating its own guidelines.”
County Commissioner Mike Byerly men-
tioned that once negotiations with the Depart-ment of Forestry on a lease agreement for the 
land are successful, Gainesville Police will be 
able to issue trespass violations to those com-mitting crimes in the encampment.
Another issue Chase brought up was the 
long-term status of the site.
“Is our goal to build a permanent housing 
operation … or are we trying to look for a tran-sitional area that comes with accountability and expectations?” he asked.
Currently, Grace Marketplace operates as a 
transitional facility where 22 indoor residents and 56 pavilion residents receive services like mental health counseling and job assistance, said Assistant City Manager Frederick Murry, who reported on the current operations at Grace.
Commissioners will determine further ac-
tion for the area after Baker finalizes her rec-ommendations.
Earlier in the meeting, Director of Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs Steve Phillips said the transition to Lot 10 was successful for the farmers market last week.
The department will soon have a mobile 
stage parked on Lot 10 for those who want to rent it. The First Friday Gainesville concert 
series will be on the stage for normal perfor-
mances.
City, county commissions talk jurisdiction for homeless camp
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator staff writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
President Kent Fuchs at-
tended his first UF Board of Trustees meeting Monday af-ternoon at Tigert Hall.
The board met to discuss a 
bond for the University Athlet-ic Association and the integrity of UF’s performance data.
The Committee on Finance 
and Facilities unanimously ap-proved bonds for an indoor 
football practice field as well as 
the renovation and expansion of the Office of Student Life.
Fuchs said the building is a 
unique addition to the athletic department.
UAA Athletics Director Jer-
emy Foley said the indoor field would be used when weather 
interrupts football practice. He 
said about 30 football practices were affected by weather last Fall.
Foley said the building will 
have a 120-yard, synthetic turf football field, three camera plat-forms, equipment storage and restrooms.
The cost of the indoor field 
is estimated to be $15 million and the renovation of the Office of Student Life to be about $25 million.
“Again, we need a place for 
our team to practice,” he said.
Also at the meeting, the 
Committee on Audit and Op-erations Review unanimously approved a UF performance-based funding data integrity 
audit report.                         
In June 2014, the Board 
of Governors instructed uni-
versity presidents to act out a performance-based funding certification to prove that the data submitted is accurate and reliable.Trustees OK funds for
indoor football field FACULTY AND STAFF 
RAISED ABOUT $1 MILLION.
BRIGITTE STAMBURY
Alligator Contributing Writer
This spring, local charities are go-
ing to receive the money promised 
in fall by UF faculty and staff.
The UF Campaign for Charities 
raised more than $1 million in do-
nations for at least 95 local agencies 
during the annual fall campaign.
The campaign was created to 
consolidate fundraising for various charities into one campaign and to give faculty and staff the option to donate through payroll deduction, said Susan Crowley, director of the campaign and UF assistant vice president for community relations.
“I think our campaign is success-
ful because of payroll deduction,” 
Crowley said, “but I also think it’s 
successful because we have some-thing for everybody.”
Eligible groups to donate to in-
clude ones that feed the homeless, save the environment and fund research for disease treatment. To qualify, the organization must pro-vide significant services in Alachua County and neighboring counties.
The recent campaign reached or-
ganizations like Operation Catnip, Bread of the Mighty Food Bank and the Alachua Conservation Trust.
Tom Kay, Alachua Conserva-
tion Trust executive director, said 
the campaign has raised more than 
$24,000 for the agency, which aims to protect natural, historic, scenic and recreational resources of North Central Florida.
“It’s an incredible program, and 
we are really grateful for it,” Kay said.Charities collect donations from UF
The law would go into effect July 1
laws.
“This provides us a great opportunity to have 
high standards, clear insurance guidelines, and an open and transparent way for the business to oper-ate in the state of Florida,” he said.
Kaitlin Durkosh, an Uber communications 
spokeswoman, wrote in an email that the company appreciates Brandes for his forward thinking.
“We welcome sensible legislation and hope to see 
regulatory frameworks passed that recognize the fundamental differences between ridesharing and other transportation options,” she wrote.Gainesville has already started to work on legis-
lation that would update city codes to reflect these businesses. 
But Erik Bredfeldt, Gainesville’s economic devel-
opment and innovation director, said his obligation is to make sure local committees are aware that state-
wide policies would overrule Gainesville’s already-
existing rules.
The city is looking to take existing regulations 
and update them in a way that incorporates these newer types of companies to create a level playing field, he said.
If the bill passes, it will go into effect July 1.UBER , from page 1TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
 THEY REVIEWED REPORTS 
ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
UNITED NATIONS — The 
head of the U.N. agency promot-
ing equality for women is lament-
ing that a girl born today will be 
an 81-year-old grandmother be-fore she has the same chance as a man to be CEO of a company 
— and she will have to wait until 
she’s 50 years old to have an equal chance to lead a country.
Twenty years after 189 coun-
tries adopted a blueprint to 
achieve equality for women, 
Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said in an interview with The Associ-ated Press that not a single coun-
try has reached gender parity and 
equality.
The executive director of UN 
Women spoke ahead of Inter-national Women’s Day on Fri-day and next week’s meeting of 
the Commission on the Status of 
Women. 
Although there has been prog-
ress since Beijing, especially in 
women’s health and girls’ educa-
tion, Mlambo-Ngcuka said, there are fewer than 20 female heads of state and government, and the number of women lawmakers has 
increased from 11 percent to just 
22 percent in the last two decades.
Mlambo-Ngcuka said UN 
Women is looking for 10 world 
leaders, 10 CEOs and 10 universi-
ties to “break the mode” and be-come champions of the agency’s “HeForShe” campaign, which calls on the world’s male lead-
ers, fathers, sons, husbands and 
brothers to stand up and support equality for women in all areas of life.
If that happens, she said, 
“we’ve got something to work with, taking the campaign for-ward.”Head of UN Women: No country has reached gender equalityLACY RUBLOFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
March is the month of fe-
male empowerment and cele-
bration, and organizations like UF’s Enactus Club are work-
ing to spread awareness.
The UF Enactus Club part-
nered with Coca-Cola and 
Wal-Mart to develop the Women Working with Women 
campaign in which members 
teach a seven-week course for 
local women looking to re-
enter the workforce. The first 
class is graduating Sunday.
Alessandra Bustamante, 
project manager and a UF eco-nomics and international stud-
ies junior, said Enactus mem-
bers strive to solve community 
issues. This year, the members 
chose to focus on women em-
powerment.
Enactus received a $1,500 
grant from Wal-Mart, a $1,500 
grant from Coca-Cola and a 
$1,800 grant from Parisleaf to 
help rebrand Women Working 
with Women.
Bustamante, 22, and fel-
low project manager Rachel 
Bowden, 21, said they have de-
voted about 1,300 hours to the 
campaign since September.
They said the time spent is 
well worth it after seeing im-
provements in the women’s lives.
“We’re really excited,” said Bowden, a UF economics 
and history junior. “Women 
are sometimes forgotten in our community, so to have a month dedicated to that is awesome.”
The International Festival 
of Women Composers Concert is also bringing attention to women’s accomplishments.
Today through March 
24, the free concert at the UF School of Music and the Baughman Center on Lake Al-ice will highlight female com-posers.
“In many concert programs 
there are only men compos-ers,” said Miriam Zach, festival founder and creative director. “This gives women a voice and a way of expression.”
UF’s Women’s Student As-
sociation is sponsoring rough-ly half of UF’s Women’s His-tory Month events, including a cultural dance performance Wednesday and a speaking event on March 18 featuring transgender model and advo-cate Geena Rocero.
Michelle Nolan, director 
of Women’s History Month at UF and an organic chemistry graduate student, said she’s excited for the diverse events and variety of participants.
“Hopefully people will 
walk away with the scope of what it means to be a woman,” Nolan, 24, said.Local course and 
concerts promote Women’s History
SAVANA MORIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF students are on a mission to foster inno-
vation through inter-collegiate collaboration.
During the weekend of Feb. 21, Natalie DeVarona, 
22, and Daniel Kleinman, 21, were named UF’s first 
University Innovation Fellows at Stanford Univer-sity, joining 85 colleges and universities in a national movement to promote the campus’ entrepreneurial 
atmospheres.
As fellows, they will be creating projects to en-
rich UF’s entrepreneurial scene by encouraging the 
collaboration of students between different colleges within the university.
The duo is keeping quiet about their first project.The program is run by the National Center for En-
gineering Pathways to Innovation, or Epicenter, an organization funded by the National Science Foun-dation. It is a partnership between Stanford Univer-sity and VentureWell, a higher education network.
“The training itself is invaluable,” said DeVaro-
na, an industrial and systems engineering senior. “I 
would love for students to get a taste of this entre-
preneurial kind of spark that’s going on at UF.”
DeVarona and Kleinman both said their goal is to 
promote interdisciplinary collaboration between all 
colleges at UF to brainstorm ideas for the future.
DeVarona said she’s hopeful more students will 
participate. There can be up to five fellows from UF, 
leaving plenty of room for growth.
Kleinman, who is graduating this Spring, said he 
is focused on laying a strong groundwork for future fellows.
“I’ve never found an opportunity quite like this,” 
the mechanical engineering senior said. “It’s target-
ed for the people who have that passion and want to 
make that difference and change.”UF engineering students honoredSydney Dixon / Alligator 
Out for a Drive
Barbara and Willard Revaz of Oxford, Connecticut, drive their vintage car in the parking lot near the Florida 
Museum of Natural History on Monday afternoon. Willard said they’re in town for the vintage car winter tour that is visiting Gainesville, which began Sunday and will run until Thursday.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Participants walk in the International Women’s Day march for gender equality and women’s rights from the U.N. to Times Square on Sunday in New York. About 1,000 people gathered to speak up for the gen-der that traditionally is paid less for work and often has a smaller voice in policy decisions.
Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
30 TOTAL VOTES47% Sunburn
53% Frozen
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Spring Break 
2015: Sunburned or frozen?Today’s question: Do you think the OU fraternity was 
punished fairly?OU rightfully 
disbands frat after 
racist video
The proliferation of smartphones has done wonders for 
the exposure of corruption, discrimination and other 
despicable behaviors. Allegations that previously 
could have been brushed off as fabrication are now often 
backed up with videos of the accused caught in the act.
Members of the now-nonexistent chapter of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon fraternity at Oklahoma University know what it feels like, having been exposed by a cell video posted Sunday on YouTube.
It shows tuxedoed members on a bus, presumably headed 
to a formal, gleefully chanting, “There will never be a n*****r in SAE!” One grinning brother stands up and pumps his ﬁ  st in the air for the chorus: “You can hang him from a tree, but he’ll never sign with me!”
To simply label this “racist” is a gross understatement. 
There are two possible interpretations of the song: Members of OU SAE would prefer seeing a black man murdered to see-ing their letters on him, or they are so comfortable with our country’s history of lynching that, to them, it’s a complete joke. Ultimately, though, it doesn’t matter which interpreta-tion — the people caught singing this chant on video proba-bly sit somewhere between the two. To enjoy a song like that requires the kind of thinking that endorses racial violence.
This makes one wonder how long things like this have 
gone on in secret, at OU and probably at many other univer-sities — including our own. For many fraternities, this kind of racism plays no part. But nasty stories like this one do sur-face often enough to the point where they’re not exactly a surprise, either. Indeed, viewers have pointed out how the song seems like a traditional one, and at least one former SAE member said the chant was used at his Texas university.
OU President David Boren will leave no room for SAE to 
escape. He made a statement yesterday that severed all ties with that chapter of SAE, “effective immediately.” Brothers have to move their belongings out of the house, now closed. 
Boren showed none of the reluctance university authori-
ties usually display when dealing with incidents like these. Traditionally, they condemn the actions of individuals and might require the organization to attend diversity training. That was how President Bernie Machen responded to the verbal harassment of a black woman from the porch of UF’s Alpha Tau Omega house two years ago. 
Pressure from members and donating alumni often shield 
disgraceful houses from the justice they deserve. It’s a situa-tion so ingrained, many have wondered for years what sort of behavior would actually be punished. It seems like they 
ﬁ  nally have an answer.
Boren’s swift and righteous reaction should be the stan-
dard in cases like this. Sadly, even in 2015, it’s still a bold one. UCLA interrogation reveals anti-Semitism
On February 10, a University of California, Los An-
geles, student stood before her student council in the hope of being accepted to its judicial board. 
Rachel Beyda, a second-year economics major, had been unanimously approved by a review committee before she presented herself to the board. With an impressive aca-demic record, leadership experience and several legal in-ternships, Beyda’s conﬁ  rmation seemed like a no-brainer.
But when board members began their line of question-
ing, a discussion about Beyda’s qualiﬁ  cations and experience 
quickly became a discussion about her Jewish background.
“Given that you are a Jewish student and very active in 
the Jewish community,” asked board member and interna-tional student Fabienne Roth, “how do you see yourself be-ing able to maintain an unbiased view?”
This startling display of anti-Semitism continued after 
Beyda left the room. Several board members continued voic-
ing their concerns about Beyda’s Jewish afﬁ  liation and what 
they perceived as a “conﬂ  ict of interest” — despite the fact that they all agreed she was qualiﬁ  ed for the position.
It is deeply disturbing that a student’s Jewish identity and 
involvement in Jewish organizations was used to question her ability to fulﬁ  ll the responsibilities of a position. It’s espe-cially shocking that four council members voted to deny Bey-da her well-deserved spot, only changing their minds after a faculty advisor stepped in and informed them that Beyda’s 
Jewish involvement does not constitute a conﬂ  ict of interest.
In a student council comprised of people from various 
backgrounds involved with a multitude of other organiza-
tions, how is it legitimate to single out a Jewish student for potential biases? How is it acceptable for members of a judi-cial board who pride themselves on being impartial to dis-miss a qualiﬁ  ed candidate because of her identity? Not only were their actions morally repugnant, they were also illegal.
Of the four students who voted against Beyda — Fabi-
enne Roth, Manjot Singh, Negeen Sadeghi-Movahed and So-ﬁ  a Moreno Haq — three come from minority backgrounds. Surely they have had their own painful experiences of dis-crimination, and it’s disappointing that they would blatantly inﬂ  ict prejudice on one of their peers.Sadly, UCLA can add itself to 
the list of college campuses that experience anti-Semitic events.
Last year, Jewish students at 
several well-known universi-
ties found themselves the target 
sof hate. At Emory University in October and at the University of Oregon in July, Jewish frater-nity houses were vandalized with swastikas. An Ohio University student found his mezuzah, a reli-
gious symbol placed on the doors of Jewish homes, torn from his door twice. In April at the University of Central Florida, a 
Jewish student walked into her apartment to ﬁ  nd swastikas 
carved into the walls. 
These events should not be brushed off and forgotten. In 
an interview, UCLA Chancellor Gene D. Block optimistically described the incident as a “teaching moment,” because the students “all learned about what’s appropriate and what’s not appropriate.”
Must students appointed to a judicial board discriminate 
against someone before realizing it is “not appropriate”?
Unsurprisingly, after being criticized in UCLA’s student 
newspaper, the four board members issued a written apol-ogy to the university and its Jewish community. Rather than admit the personal prejudice of their actions, they professed their sincerest apologies for “any words used during this meeting” that didn’t represent their intentions. If these stu-dents truly believe that the only wrong committed was a poor choice of words, all of them deserve to lose their posi-tions. Words matter, but so do the beliefs behind them.
Making preconceived notions about anyone based on 
their race, ethnicity, religion, gender or sexuality is abhorrent and should never be tolerated. College campuses, especially, should strive to be a place where students of all cultures, backgrounds and beliefs feel welcome and included.
Clearly, there’s more work to be done.Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7On Sunday, International 
Women’s Day remind-ed the nation of the 
battle for gender equality. The revolutionary cries of feminist 
advocates were heard and understood by 
many.  The population was exposed to the post-modern plight for freedom, which is remarkably similar to quests for liberty un-dertaken by our forefathers in past move-ments. And, in the same way proponents of past quests rallied behind strong leaders, so too did feminists rally behind iconic fig-ures. Among the outspoken advocates was 
Hillary Clinton, whom many believe to be a 
great symbol for feminism.
Although Clinton’s outspoken advocacy 
for feminism has surely benefited the cause, some are infuriated with her in regards to a separate issue with troubling implications: her possession of a secret email account that violates federal regulations. 
However, others believe that this “scan-
dal” has been overdramatized by media hype and shouldn’t be used to cast a shad-ow on the feminist icon. Personally, I be-lieve that Clinton’s use of an illegal email is not only troubling but also compromising of her character in regards to leadership. If this is proven true, then feminists should not rally behind Clinton but rather find a more venerable leader to represent their 
cause. 
Let’s explore the issue to its full extent.
Since 2009, federal regulations have re-
quired all emails to be preserved as part of an agency’s record-keeping system. Before this law was put into place, many politi-cal figures, including Clinton herself, were strongly advocating for transparency in the White House. In 2007, during a speech on 
the George Bush campaign, she attacked 
the White House for using secret emails. She proclaimed, “Our Constitution is be-ing shredded. We know about the secret wiretaps … the secret White House email accounts. It is a stunning record of secrecy and corruption, of cronyism run amok.” Back in 2007, her passion for transparency was truly venerable. Now, she is commit-
ting the same crime she berated Bush for.
In a recent interview with Rep. Trey 
Gowdy, R-S.C., CBS journalist Bob Schief-
fer explained that with a private email, Clinton could not only keep her emails from the government but also delete those she never wanted anyone to find. And al-though she has turned in her private email to be reviewed, Gowdy reports months of missing activity. 
He goes on to discuss the 
day when Clinton was on a plane to Libya and explains 
that they have no record of any emails dur-ing that trip. A picture of Clinton on the trip, which shows her using her phone — purportedly emailing — was her Twitter icon, but she recently took it down. Her new profile picture was a white silhouette of a woman, which is an icon of the Clinton Foundation’s “Not There” campaign  that raises awareness on how far women have 
come in society and how far they still have 
to go. Clinton has since reinstated the old photo as her Twitter profile picture.
However, many are suspicious of the 
timing of the change. After all, her old pic-ture could have possibly been proof of her sending an email. Then again, the Not There campaign is a real awareness program. 
That being said, coincidence is rarely 
ever the result of unrelated events. It is possible that Clinton is in fact hiding be-hind feminist campaigns in order to protect her own self-interests. If this is the case, it is a deplorable stunt. But even if this isn’t true, the aforementioned scandal proves Clinton’s shady character and unlawful ac-tivity. It exposes her as a hypocrite and a criminal, and I do not believe that someone 
with these traits should be one of the main 
leaders of the feminist cause. The fight for equality deserves better.
But as 2016 approaches, Clinton will 
continue to rally feminists in the hopes of garnering more votes. In recent speeches she has excited crowds by shouting things such as “Don’t you someday want to see a woman president?” to which she receives 
an abundance of applause. Of course, I too 
want to see a woman president. But I know when a politician is using that sentiment and manipulating it for personal causes. 
Feminists cannot allow the desire for 
a woman leader to taint their analysis of Clinton’s character. And we cannot allow Clinton to misuse feminism as a means of reaching the Oval Office. Feminists need a 
leader, but they deserve a just one. My ad-
vice is that we don’t support just any pro-ponent of a good cause but rather one who has proven his or her validity, leadership and true belief in the movement. 
Dennis Fiore is a UF political science fresh-
man. His column usually appears on Wednes-days.
Email scandal raises questions 
about Hillary’s feminist motivesColumn
Dennis Fiore
opinions@alligator.org Israel’s constant existential vulner-
ability, as Prime Minister Benja-min Netanyahu never tires of say-
ing, is unique among nations. 
Apart from the U.S., Israel has few, 
if any, close allies, and most of the na-tions surrounding it have vowed its destruction. Just about 1,000 miles away lies Iran, which has not only sworn to destroy Israel, but is also actively developing nuclear weap-ons — hardly a reassuring combina-tion. It is no wonder that Netanyahu constantly worries for his country. As if that were not enough, the prime minister is worried for himself; he is a very unpopular, divisive leader up for re-election in one week. 
These problems, none of which 
mix well, have driven Netanyahu into a perfect storm of bad decisions that have backfired on his country’s foreign policy.
Most recently, the prime minister’s 
highly controversial speech to the U.S. Congress has created a firestorm in Israeli politics. Surveys show that Israeli voters see a poor relationship with the U.S. as equally — if not more — problematic as an Iranian nuclear weapon. The nebulous possibility of a trigger-happy President Hassan Rouhani with hypothetical access to a future bomb is not quite as imme-diate or as tangible as the billions of dollars of aid, international legitima-cy and routine U.N. Security Coun-cil vetoes that the American alliance confers.
Moreover, the promise of Ameri-
can assistance ultimately serves as the last line of defense for Israel. A mushroom cloud over Tel Aviv would most certainly trigger Ameri-can action against Iran. 
Of course, even Netanyahu’s mis-
steps are not likely to change this close, long-standing and overwhelm-ingly bipartisan support overnight, but they do raise questions about just how close, just how long-standing and just how partisan the relation-ship has been, will be and should be.
Beyond his recent speech, Netan-yahu has pursued additional alienat-ing policies, especially his hardline approach to settlements and pur-ported opposition to a two-state solu-tion, forcing Israel into a diplomatic corner. By seeming unreasonable and unwilling to come to the negotiat-ing table, he has ceded the perceived high ground and made anti-Israel sentiment more defensible.
This approach has relegated Ne-
tanyahu to peanut gallery rabble-rousing, shut out of the real diplo-macy that matters. The negotiations of the five permanent members of the Security Council and Germany in Ge-neva will help determine the future of the Iranian nuclear program in the near term, but they have notably by-passed Israel. 
As a result, the prime minister 
must instead resort to political stunts like his most recent speech to the U.S. Congress. He can decry deals as of-ten as he wants, but perhaps if he had pursued a more conciliatory foreign policy, he could have influenced the negotiations more directly.
Moving forward, it will be impor-
tant for the Israeli electorate to con-sider whether a pragmatic leader or an ideologue will be better for their national interest. Of course, foreign affairs and national security are not their only concerns; many Israelis will no doubt have their pocketbooks on their mind when they go to the polls next week. 
Yet in a nation whose foreign pol-
icy does not merely deal with inter-national peacemaking and free trade pacts but also the very nature of its survival, Netanyahu’s foreign policy choices have serious repercussions. Regardless of whether the incum-bent Likud Party maintains its ma-jority, Israelis should ask themselves whether their foreign policy is really on the right track, and, if not, wheth-er Netanyahu is the right person to lead Israel forward.
Derek Choi writes for the Harvard 
Political Review. A version of this col-umn originally appeared on UWire.
Israeli policy alienating USUWire8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Krishna Lunch Ave.
Two Jimmy John’s bikers ride down the Newell Drive bike path while a large crowd of students eats Krishna Lunch 
behind them Monday afternoon.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Best Buddy
Pepper, an 8-month-old German shepherd, lies beside her owner, Josh Brami, a 20-year-old UF accounting junior, on Turlington Plaza on Monday. Pepper and Brami were on the plaza with Best Buddies International, an organization that seeks to eliminate the usage of the word “retarded.”
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Florida’s 
new online standardized test was 
the target of a cyberattack that caused delays at some schools, of-ficials said Monday.
The state’s top law enforcement 
agency has launched an investiga-tion right as school districts are in the middle of giving the test, based on new standards linked to Com-mon Core. The vendor providing the test has maintained no student data was obtained through the at-
tacks, state officials said.
Many districts suspended the 
test early last week amid prob-
lems that were blamed on software glitches. Education Commissioner Pam Stewart said those were fixed, but a cyberattack hit servers Thurs-day. Tests were delayed at some schools and one large school district had to halt it entirely that day.
Stewart said her agency has been 
working with the Florida Depart-ment of Law Enforcement.
“We will continue to provide 
them with any information possible to ensure they identify the bad ac-tors and hold them accountable to the fullest extent of the law,” Stewart said in a statement.
The troubled roll-out of the new 
test — known as the Florida Stan-dards Assessment — has prompted 
critics to call on the Department of 
Education and legislators to remove any sanctions or penalties associated with the new test. The test is used for everything from deciding which students are held back in grade school to which students graduate.On Thursday, the department 
received widespread reports about “white screens” during log-in. The company told state officials the 
problem was due to a cyberattack.
Law enforcement commissioner 
Rick Swearingen said the state has 
consulted with the FBI and is trying “to determine where these attacks are coming from and to identify sus-pects.”
Florida investigates cyberattack on school testing program 
SAMANTHA POLLACK
Alligator Contributing Writer
Deviating from the average conference, the 
UF American Medical Student Association will 
host a medical festival this spring.
AMSA will host the first PremedFest on April 
11 and 12 at the UF College of Medicine. Early registration closes Sunday, and students from around the country are encouraged to attend.
Scott Szymanski, president of UF’s AMSA 
chapter, wrote in an email that the event is com-ing together as a collaborative effort between the chapter, the UF Academic Advising Center in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and the na-tional AMSA office.
Szymanski, a 21-year-old UF biology and so-
ciology senior, said he came up with the idea about a year ago so members can attend a medi-cal conference without the burden of travel and hotel costs. AMSA’s Annual Convention was in Washington, D.C., he said.
The PremedFest is an “un-conference,” mod-
eled after a music festival for a one-of-a-kind event that is interactive, celebratory and fun.
AMSA is anticipating about 500 participants. 
Registration costs $45 if completed before Sun-day, $65 before March 29 and $95 at the event.
Jeff Koetje, AMSA director of experiences, 
said the organization wanted to create a sense of community among pre-medical students.
“Many students often feel isolated, alone or in 
competition with their classmates, and we want-ed to create a sense of community, joy and hap-piness, highlighting them as an important part of the pre-med experience,” he said. “The joy and pleasure of becoming a doctor gets pushed aside.”
The events will be in four stages: Mind, Body, 
Spirit and Community. It will be interactive, with an open-mic session, theatrical productions of patient stories and 15-minute, TED Talk-style presentations.
The festival will feature Patch Adams, a 
world-renowned doctor who focuses on chal-lenging the status quo of the current medical system by making it more personal.  
Adams will hold discussions to review his 
methods, like “Medicine for Fun, not Funds,” which will get to the root of why students should want to be doctors.        
“It is my hope that this event will be a place 
that premeds can actually have fun and enjoy being a premed and confirm their passions for medicine while learning a great deal about the profession they are about the enter,” Szymanski wrote.UF AMSA to host 
first PremedFest ‘un-conference’TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
STAFF REPORT
UF is teeming with brilliant 
people working on cutting-edge 
technology that saves lives, reveals mysteries and solves problems. We’re here to share the latest in 
UF’s advancements, research and 
studies.
Batty and Beautiful  
What makes moths beautiful 
may make them stick around lon-
ger.
A joint study by UF and Boise 
State University shows that luna 
moths spin their long distinctive 
hind tails to disrupt the sonar of their predator — bats.
The study, published in the 
Proceedings of the National Acad-emy of Sciences, may have laid the foundations for continued sonar research in the military, said study co-author Akito Kawahara, assis-
tant curator of Lepidoptera at the 
Florida Museum of Natural His-tory.
Scientists aren’t sure just how 
many species use similar acous-tic deflection strategies, but visual strategies — like fake eye spots and vivid colors — are common. Scientists tracked the predatory be-havior of bats using ultrasonic mi-crophones and high-speed infrared cameras, said Kawahara. The study 
showed that bats attacked the hind 
tails of luna moths 55 percent of the time. These tailed moths had a 47 percent higher survival advantage.
Be light hearted
Sedentary behavior is deadlier 
than ever, according to the results 
of a new UF study.
The study, published in the 
Journal of the American Heart As-sociation, showed that with every 25 to 30 minutes spent sedentary, participants had a 1 percent in-crease in the likelihood of a cardio-vascular event. However, for every 
20 minutes the participants spent 
doing light activity, they faced a 1 percent decrease in cardiovascular risk. The UF Health study showed participants spent about 77 percent of their waking hours in sedentary behavior, such as sitting on the couch, at a desk or lying down.
More than 1,100 people between 
the ages of 74 and 84 participated in the Lifestyle Interventions and In-dependence for Elders study. They wore accelerometers to measure how often they moved throughout the day. UF researchers compared this to predicted risk of coronary events like heart attacks.
The predicted risk range cov-
ered 10 years, and participants’ risk 
ranged from 4.2 to 21.6 percent, av-
eraging about 13 percent.
Growing Pains
Baby boomers need to think 
about future living arrangements 
for themselves or parents, as it is 
not always best to be where you’re 
most comfortable.
Stephen Golant, a UF researcher 
who studies housing needs for old-er Americans, wrote “Aging in the Right Place,” where he argues that staying independent at home isn’t always best. Older people some-times become emotionally attached 
to their homes, so they don’t realize 
they’re missing the activities and features needed to age successfully.
The biggest issue is for moder-
ate-income elders, who are ineligi-ble to apply for the services offered to low-income people yet can’t af-ford the services offered by the pri-vate sector.It is important to plan ahead, 
Golant said, and not wait for a crisis to make decisions. 
Insurance and Reassurance
A new UF Health study shows 
brain tumor patients with private 
insurance may be better off.
According to a study published 
in the journal Neurosurgery on 
Feb. 18, brain tumor patients with Medicaid or no insurance are more likely to stay hospitalized for lon-ger periods of time. They develop more medical complications and are less likely to benefit from early 
detection of brain tumors than their 
privately insured counterparts.
It may be due to the amount of 
time a patient waits to see a doctor after symptoms start to show, said Kristopher Hooten, a resident in the UF College of Medicine and lead author of the study.
“When private-insurance pa-
tients start to have a problem, it gets picked up really fast,” Hooten said. “They go to a primary doctor, who makes a quick referral to a neurolo-gist or neurosurgeon.”
People who lack insurance or 
use Medicaid sometimes have to wait before going to an emergency room until symptoms become se-vere, affecting their overall out-come.
To Feast or Fast
UF Health researchers have 
found that intermittent fasting 
causes a slight increase in SIRT3, a protein that promotes longevity.
A study of mice has shown that 
fasting can extend lifespan and improve age-related diseases. But fasting every day, whether it entails skipping meals or decreasing calo-
ries, can be difficult to maintain. 
“People don’t want to just un-
der-eat for their whole lives,” said 
Martin Wegman, a student at the UF College of Medicine and one of the co-authors of the study. “We started thinking about the concept of intermittent fasting.”
According to the study, along 
with increased SIRT3, occasional fasting decreased insulin levels, meaning intermittent fasting could help prevent diabetes.
The study measured changes in 
the weight, blood pressure, heart rate, glucose levels, cholesterol and protective cell response genes in participants over 10 weeks.TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Housing for Homeless Veterans!
Volunteers of America offers housing for 
homeless veterans or those at risk of becom-ing homeless in a warm and supportive envi-ronment. If you or anyone you know may ben-efit from our program, please contact Woody at 352-642-8313 for more information. 
Two bedrooms with all utilities included!    
3-17-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  
Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   
3-13-15-12-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-
3901    3-26-15-15-2
HOUSE - 4BR/2BA
Available 8/1. Lawncare, W/D, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. Drive by, see flier. 
$1400/mo. Call 352-256-8370 or 373-1558     
3-12-15-5-2
5 BEDROOM,3 BATH HOME.
WALK TO CLASS!
ASKING $2,850 TOTAL.
CALL JOHN @ 561.866.8234
FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
3-13-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
$455/mo. 1BR/1BA currently available (ASAP). Great location Center Point Apts. 1220 NW 12th St. Lease ends on July 31st. Text or call 904-662-9065    3-13-15-4-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SCHOLAR’S HAVEN.Grad, post-doc, prof. Contemp. furn. house in woods 1 mi. north of UF. W/D, piano, wifi, prkg. $425+util.262-3957. or mardavis03@yahoo.com    3-13-15-5-4
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $95000 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
Help Wanted
10-15 hrs per week in AlachuaPredominantly Farm/yard maintenance$12/hr cash3522583571      3-10-15-5-14
Psychological assistant psychometrician
wanted for private practice.
Will require
1-2 months unpaid training to qualify
for 36-40 hour position at 10.50 per hour
minimum 1 year commitment. perfect for
someone wanting experience b4 grad 
school. Send vita to info@cpancf.com
3-16-15-7-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTSWe are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors
Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers. Apply today at 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html!
3-17-15-7-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com3-13-5-14
looking for a reliable office/home/apartment cleaner with own transportation and valid license/insurance w/ a good background record and drugfree... background checks and drug tests will be ran.... paying $8/hr if interested please call 352-214-0868    3-13-15-5-14
PT Job with UIFT Web Service. Quick learnerWeb Design experience (HTML, CSS)15-20 hrs/week, $15/hr.Assisting Web Developers migrate content into new system.email resume to Kim Standifer, standik@ufl.edu   3-18-7-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room
5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
J.C. Deacon and UF 
men’s golf are hoping to improve on a poor ending at their last tournament. Read more on page 14.  Men’s Tennis plays at home today
The No. 11 UF men’s tennis team hosts No. 8 Ohio State today at 3 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex. UF Track coach, athletes honored on Monday
Mike Holloway was named the SEC Indoors Men’s Coach of the Year. Marquis Dendy and KeAndre Bates were named the SEC Men’s Field Athlete of the Year and Freshman Field Athlete of the Year, respectively. RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer@RagjUF
The last time Florida played Alabama could have been a 
turning point for the Gators. 
Dorian Finney-Smith had emerged from 28 minutes of offensive ineptness with a thunderous dunk to give Florida 
a late lead and score his only points of the game. Then, he 
saved the game with a block on the other end of the court. 
The win snapped a three-game losing streak and gave 
Florida momentum heading into a matchup days later with nationally ranked Arkansas.“He obviously made a great shot fake,” coach Billy Dono-
van said. “He had a pretty clear path to the basket and the guy at the rim was kind of in a bad situation because you’re inside the halo, so you can’t really take a charge and you can’t really jump. He did a great job in terms of shot fak-ing and driving it where, there was a game I think a couple 
games before that against Ole Miss I got disappointed with 
him.”
Things were looking up for Florida, and then the floor 
dropped out from under UF. 
An injury to leading scorer Michael Frazier II and a sus-
pension to Finney-Smith left Florida’s already limited of-fense with nothing to stand on, and after a last-second vic-tory over the Razorbacks, the Gators lost four in a row and seven of their last 10 Southeastern Conference games.
Now, UF enters the SEC tournament as the No. 8 seed 
but is still the defending tournament champion — albeit a weak one — and face an opening-round rematch against the Crimson Tide. 
The contrast is startling from where they were last year 
heading into March Madness. 
Last year, the UF team that went 18-0 in conference play 
was a lock for a No. 1 seed in the tournament.
This year’s squad has endured one of the worst regular 
seasons in the Billy Donovan era, but the experience might benefit them in the long run.
“I think it will help us in certain situations. Expectations. 
We came into this season expecting that we would do a lot 
better and win a lot more games. I think things like that will 
help us out when we get in close games and help figure out how to try to win,” point guard Kasey Hill said. “I think that will help us out. We’ll have a lot more players with a little bit more experience — not a lot of experience but a little bit more — so that will help us in tough games down the stretch.”
Florida’s 15-16 record on the season may keep them out of 
the National Invitation Tournament. While it is no longer a rule that sub-.500 teams aren’t allowed into the NIT, no team without a winning record has made the tournament since the rule was changed in 2006. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Dorian Finney-Smith looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 66-62 win against Texas A&M on March 3 in the 
O’Connell Center. Florida, the No. 8 seed in the Southeastern Conference Tournament, will play ninth-seeded Alabama on Thursday in Nashville at 1 p.m.
UF entering SEC Tournament fighting to keep season alive
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer@alexmaminakis
Assistant coach Michelle Tumolo 
is one of the Gators’ most valuable 
assets when No. 6 Florida lacrosse 
(6-1) plays Syracuse (5-2) tonight at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
She knows more about Syracuse 
than any of the other UF coaches or 
players. 
Some of her best friends are at 
Syracuse in the lacrosse program — 
the same program that Tumolo spent four years playing in during college, from 2009-2013.
For Tumolo, 
tonight’s game against Syracuse — 
in one of the Gators’ 
most highly antici-pated matchups of the season — is her 
chance to catch up 
with former coaches 
and teammates, some of whom are still playing for the Orange.
“Yeah, it is weird,” Tumolo said 
of coaching against her alma mater. Florida lacrosse assistant 
coach has Syracuse ties
SEE LAX, PAGE 15BASEBALL
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer@icohenb
No. 2 Florida will begin a two-game se-
ries against Fairfield today, with the first 
matchup scheduled for 7 p.m.
The meeting will be the first ever between 
the two teams, and both enter at opposite ends of the college baseball spectrum.
The Gators (14-2) are rolling — they have 
won nine of their last 10 while outscoring 
their opponents 62-24 over that stretch. Both 
of their losses have come against ranked opponents — against then-No. 13 UCF on March 3 and versus then-No. 8 Miami on Feb. 21.
Fairfield has only played three games to start its season, all of them losses to UNF. 
The Stags are hitting .227 and their pitch-
ing staff is averaging a 5.27 ERA. Their No. 1 pitcher, right-hander EJ Ashworth, will 
likely be unavailable tonight after allowing 
one run on three hits in 4.1 innings last Sat-urday.
Florida will start right-hander Eric 
Hanhold, who debuted in the ninth inning 
last Friday to secure the series opening win 
against Maine.
Josh Tobias will continue to fill in for 
Harrison Bader at the cleanup spot af-
ter Bader sprained his ankle on Saturday. 
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan said Bader will re-turn later this week.Gators baseball starts two-
game series with Fairfield
Tumolo
RYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer @RyanSummers18
During the final stretch in the desert, the 
men’s golf team fell down the leaderboard.
Going into the final round of the Desert 
Mountain Intercollegiate, the Gators sat in 
second place as a team, four shots off even-tual tournament winner Oregon.
The team’s five-over-par performance 
on the final three holes spelled disaster for the squad as they finished fourth, falling behind to Michigan and Purdue by one shot each.
“We had a really tough weekend this 
weekend,” coach J.C. Deacon said. “We hung in there on a really tough windy first day and were really in a good position to have a good tournament going into the fi-
nal round and then we had a pretty much 
complete meltdown on the last three holes.
“That hurt a lot and I know it hurt the 
guys a lot, and it was a bit of a wake up call for all of us. We’ve been trending the right 
way for so long and for something like that 
to happen was really tough.”
Despite the tough final round, the 
fourth-place finish for the Gators is the team’s fourth top-five finish in as many tournaments dating back to October.
Along with finishing fourth as a team, 
the Gators placed three individuals in the top 10 in Scottsdale, Arizona. 
Freshman Alejandro Tosti and junior 
A.J. Crouch rounded out the top 10, finish-
ing 2-over-par and earning a share of the 10 spot.
Senior J.D. Tomlinson earned sixth place 
at 1-under-par to secure his second top-10 
finish in a row after earning the runner-up spot at the Gator Invitational.
“I think J.D., Alejandro, and A.J. have 
really solidified their place in the lineup,” 
Deacon said. “I think those last two spots are kind of 
there for the taking and we need someone to step up and grab it.”
The starting five in the Desert Mountain 
Invitational for the Gators were the same 
five as in the Gator Invitational and the only time Deacon has played the same five 
golfers in any tournaments this season.
Moving into the final month of play be-
fore the postseason, Deacon said that the 
details would elevate his team to the next 
level.
“We talk a lot about details here and 
that’s what we’re trying to clean up more 
than anything and we had some issues this week with details. A couple of guys had 
uniform issues. A couple guys were late 
for some things and that stuff catches up with you,” Deacon said. 
“I 100 percent believe that was the rea-
son why we struggled coming down the stretch. It’s tough to get these guys to un-derstand that everything they do in their life affects their performance on the golf course and I really think our lack of disci-
pline is what caught up with us.”
The Gators return to action Friday when 
they take part in the Seminole Intercolle-
giate, a 17-team tournament hosted by 
Florida State.
The three-day tournament in Talla-
hassee features five ranked squads: FSU, 
Georgia Tech, South Carolina, South Flori-da and Virginia. GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Billy Donovan hasn’t had a 
losing season since 1998, but that’s likely to change by Satur-
day.
The Gators, sitting a game 
below .500 at 15-16, have to beat 
Alabama on Thursday in the sec-ond round of the Southeastern Conference Tournament to meet the mark.
If they win, the Gators then 
have to turn around 24 hours later to face an undefeated Ken-tucky for the second time in less than a week in order to give Flor-
ida a chance to push its winning 
record streak to 17 seasons.Yet Donovan is adamant that 
a losing season does not equal a lost season.
The players still felt the pain 
of each loss and the growth that comes with it.
“Everything that has hap-
pened this year for these guys 
is an incredible foundation for 
learning,” Donovan said. “I would tell you, going into this year, their expectation level of how good they thought they were individually, how good 
they thought they were as a team, 
was so far from reality.”
This isn’t the first time a  
Donovan-led Florida squad has 
choked on the fumes of entitle-
ment that seem to hinder the team incumbent following a NCAA Final Four finish.
Following the second-straight 
NCAA Championship that Flori-da clinched in the 2006-07 season, the Gators, led by duo Chandler Parsons and Nick Calathes, fig-
ured that the newest class could 
replicate the spectacle coined “The ‘04s” – the Joakim Noah, Corey Brewer and Al Horford-led team that is regarded as the best 
Florida basketball team in school 
history.
But just like this year’s team, 
that team struggled mightily en 
route to an above-average yet 
unimpressive 24-12 finish and a ousting in the National Invitation Tournament semifinal.
Donovan must see the simi-
larities between the two teams, differences in record aside.
However, the 2007-08 Gators 
had something on their side that 
this year’s team doesn’t: an easier 
schedule.
According to advanced stat-
istician Ken Pomeroy’s ratings, that team played the 117th hard-
est schedule in the country, some-thing that helped the team secure 
that NIT invite — something the current Gators are unlikely to re-ceive.
Early season battles with Kan-
sas and North Carolina proved to be too much this season for Donovan’s Gators, and Florida 
finished eighth in the SEC a year 
removed from running through the conference undefeated in the regular season.
Florida has the seventh-hard-
est schedule in the country this season heading into the SEC tournament, according to Ken-pom.com, and a top-10 finish in 
that category seems all but guar-
anteed.
But don’t expect Donovan to 
ease up the schedule in the fu-ture.
He hopes that the Gators have 
learned enough from the losing to make one final run at a NCAA Tournament berth.
“I think the one thing, and I’m 
not saying this as an excuse at all to our team, it’s just reality: this team probably, in my opinion, this year was way over scheduled 
in terms of where we’re at and 
where these guys are at,” Dono-van said. 
“Now, with that being said, 
it’s also the best thing that possi-bly happened because it gives us the best opportunity to get in the NCAA Tournament and it gives the best opportunity to find out 
who we really are as a team.”14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan calls out a play during Florida’s 66-62 win against Texas A&M on March 3 in the O’Connell 
Center. The Gators played the seventh-hardest schedule this season. 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Alejandro Tosti putts during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
BASKETBALL
Difficult season a learning experience for Florida basketball
UF eyeing consistency after poor ending at Arizona tourney
“We talk a lot about details here 
and that’s what we’re trying to 
clean up more than anything.”
J.C. Deacon
UF men’s golf coachIf the Gators miss out on the NIT, Florida will not accept a bid 
to the College Basketball Invitational (CBI) if invited. 
So, in all likelihood, the SEC tournament may be the final 
chance Florida gets to play basketball this season, an unceremo-
nious end to a tough season.
“I think hopefully they’re excited to play,” Donovan said.“You’re getting a chance to go somewhere and play at a neu-
tral site. It’s an opportunity to play again. I think our guys, over the last couple of weeks, we’ve gotten better as a team. I think the one thing, and I’m not saying as an excuses at all to our team, it’s just reality: this team probably, in my opinion, this year was way over scheduled in terms of where we’re at and where these 
guys are at.”JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
For the first time in her UF 
career, Kahlia Warner will 
be competing at the NCAA 
Championships.
The junior diver from 
Queensland, Australia, solidi-
fied her spot in the national 
meet on Monday by placing 
seventh in the three-meter dive at the NCAA Zone B Div-ing Championships in Athens, Georgia.
By advancing to the NCAA 
Championship meet, Warner became the first UF women’s diver to reach the meet since 
2011.
“It’s exciting for Kahlia and 
our team,” UF diving coach 
Dale Schultz said in a release. “Donnie Craine had a lot of 
success at the NCAA meet 
and with the system that’s (in) place, we are just trying to continue and build off Flori-
da’s tradition.”
While Warner and the 
women’s team saw success on 
Day 1 of qualifying — junior Emily Mosher also reached 
the finals and placed 16th on 
Monday — the men’s team did not fare as well.
Competing in the one-
meter dive on the first day of the meet, redshirt junior Zach Hernandez led Florida with a 21st-place finish while red-shirt freshman Dalton Goss 
finished in 30th.
“The one-meter has been 
the weakest event for our men 
this year,” Schultz said. “We 
knew that coming in here so 
our guys are just excited to start getting up a little high-er.”
The Gators will look to 
qualify more divers for the NCAA Championship today, with the men competing in the three-meter dive and the 
women taking on the one-me-
ter dive.
Competition ends Wednes-
day with all divers competing on the platform. TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 66-62 
win against Texas A&M on March 3 in the O’Connell Cen -
ter. Hill and the Gators have struggled with consistency this season.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Khalia Warner competes on the three-meter dive during Florida’s win against Arkansas on Sept. 27. Warner became the first diver from the UF women’s team to qualify for the NCAA Championship after finishing sev -
enth on the three-meter dive at the NCAA Zone Regionals on Monday.
DIVINGDiver qualifies for NCAA Tournament
The No. 6 Gators host the No. 5 Orange tonight at 6:30
“It’s definitely always (weird), but it’s fun, 
you know? You graduate and you have to move on. … It was the best four years of 
my life, and it’s fun to play against such a 
place that gave me a great athletic time.”
Tumolo is now in her second year as an 
assistant coach at Florida. 
In her time at Syracuse, she was named 
to the All-Big East First Team three times, was named the Big East Attack Player of the Year as a junior and a Tewaaraton Tro-phy finalist that same year – the Heisman 
equivalent of collegiate lacrosse.So, when Syracuse shows up on the 
schedule each year for Florida, Tumolo 
can give the Gators the valuable advan-tage of insight.
She gets Florida ready for the Orange 
by displaying her best impersonation of Syracuse’s famed fast paced offense for the Gators in practice, to show them how 
Syracuse will attack in the actual game.
“I think I know how Syracuse’s mental 
game is. I played there, they’re very fo-
cused,” Tumolo said. 
“They know what they need to get 
done, but I think we match that here at Florida…we just gotta be ready to match their energy and come out and play with confidence.”
Senior Nora Barry also has her share of 
ties to Syracuse. 
Barry grew up in Marcellus, New York, 
which is less than 15 miles from the cam-pus of Syracuse University in upstate New York.
“I mean, I’m a Syracuse fan of other 
sports,” Barry said, “and I’ll be playing against a lot of my friends, so it is always a little bit weird.”
Tonight’s game is a big one for both 
teams. 
The Orange are coming off two straight losses to No. 4 Boston College and No. 1 Maryland. 
They don’t want to lose a third. For the Gators, they are looking for their 
first win against a top 10 opponent this season to prove that they belong among the nation’s elite lacrosse programs.
Emotion fills this rivalry between Flor-
ida and Syracuse, one that hits close to home for a select few Gators.
“It’s exciting and nerve-wracking,” 
Barry said. 
“I think it’s gonna be interesting be-
cause both teams really need this win, so it’s gonna be a fight, for sure.”
LAX , from page 13HOOPS , from page 13SEC Tourney could 
be the end for UFGRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
For gymnastics teams across the 
country, now is the time to kick it 
in gear.
In a matter of weeks, a bad com-
petition will send you home for good this season.
If you aren’t close to peak form 
now, odds are you won’t be ready when it counts.
There are no such worries in 
Gainesville with one regular season meet remaining for No. 2 Florida.
The Gators are coming off their 
best road competition of the season and second highest road score in the nation this year.
Senior Kytra Hunter is as good 
as she has ever been at Florida, competing in every event this year while leading the nation with her all-around regional qualifying av-erage.
Bridget Sloan’s recovery has 
gone better than expected. 
On bars and beam — the two 
events she has added so far — she has scored in the 9.9s on every rou-tine since being sidelined for nearly six weeks.
Throw in the success of Florida’s 
freshmen and the stability of the team’s veterans and you have a team that is nearing its potential.
Coach Rhonda Faehn believes 
there are still a few minor correc-tions to be made, but there isn’t far to go anymore.
“I would still say we’re not 
championship ready, that’s still four, ﬁ  ve weeks away,” Faehn said. “But we’re getting there.”
Compared to its last two cham-
pionship-winning seasons, she’s right — this year’s Florida team is right on pace.In 2013, the Gators averaged a 
197.57 in their three meets leading up to the regular season-ﬁ  nale. In the same part of the 2014 season, Florida averaged 197.95 in the three meets.
In the last three meets of this sea-
son, Florida has averaged a 197.88, which is even more impressive giv-en the lack of lineup consistency the group has dealt with this year. 
Faehn believes if they can get 
that consistency, this team’s ceiling is even higher than those previous teams.
“The other (championship) 
teams that have been out there, they’ve had the same lineup, the same order, and we’ve basically seen everything they’re capable of,” Faehn said. “I feel like no one has seen what (this team) is capable of 
yet.”
Through each of UF’s nine meets 
this season, there has been at least 
one lineup change. Most has been caused by numer-
ous injuries throughout the year, and the inability to get comfortable with a lineup has been something emphasized by Faehn all season as an obstacle for the gymnasts to overcome.
Faehn said she still expects a dif-
ferent lineup this week — sopho-more Claire Boyce is dealing with a groin injury that kept her out of the beam lineup last week, and the 
events Sloan can compete in are still 
up in the air. 
Bars and beam are also two 
events Faehn is still looking to tweak slightly for performance pur-
poses, but she said this week will go a long way in determining who gets to compete the rest of the way.
“Hopefully, what we put in the 
lineups for this Friday will be the lineups we hopefully have for the (Southeastern Conference) Cham-pionship,” she said.
In other words, it’s time to earn 
the spot — otherwise someone else will take it.
The urgency must be there. It’s 
that time of the year.
16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2015
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Kytra Hunter competes on the uneven parallel bars during Florida’s win against Missouri on Feb. 13. Hunter had the nation’s highest all-around average this year, with a regional qualifying score of 39.610.
GYMNASTICS
UF rounding into championship form as postseason approaches
Florida’s top 
scorers per event
Vault:  
Alex McMurtry 
(9.960) - 1st in NCAA
Uneven Bars:  
Bridgette Caquatto 
(9.905) - 9th in NCAA
Balance Beam: 
Claire Boyce
(9.890) - 10th in NCAA
Floor Exercise: 
Kytra Hunter 
(9.945) - T-1st in NCAA
All-Around: 
Kytra Hunter 
(39.610) - 1st in NCAA
(Source: GymInfo; Averages based on each gymnast’s regional qualifying score)“I feel like no one has 
seen what (this team) is 
capable of yet.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coach