“GREAT SCOTT. ”
By Justin T ompkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the 1989 classic film “Back to the 
Future Part II,” Marty McFly travels to 
Oct. 21, 2015 in his aluminum-colored 
DeLorean car. 
But instead of landing in his home-
town at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday, a look-
a-like McFly found himself on the Plaza 
of the Americas surrounded by about 600 
students and UF band members playing the movie’s theme song.
Dressed as McFly in white Nike shoes 
and a red vest, UF telecommunication se-
nior Trace Hance stepped into the sun-
shine. Everyone was silent.
“(It was) kind of like that nightmare 
where you are behind something and all 
of the sudden, a spotlight hits you, and 
you panic,” the 21-year-old said.
“What year is it?” he yelled. “I had no idea what to say or what to 
do, but I kind of understand what it’s like 
to be a celebrity,” he said.
Jay Watkins, director of The Pride 
of the Sunshine marching band, asked 
Hance to bring his car to the Plaza during 
the band’s performance of the movie’s 
theme song.
Hance said he loves his DeLorean.“That’s a real honor and privilege to 
own it,” Hance said.
UF mathematics freshman Noorul Has-
san, 18, watched the sequel today.
Five years ago, she said she vowed not 
to watch the movie until the day featured 
in the film, which was Wednesday.
She said she didn’t want to regret not 
videotaping the event.
“I wanted to remember this day,” she 
said. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 43 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
Running backs are dominating 
college football  once again
Columnist Graham Hack takes a look into 
the resurgence, pg. 18
Research roundup
Mice in space and the cause of species extinction,  pg 3
Librarian wins award for helping adults learn 
to read
She teaches adults ages 40 to 70 years old, pg 5Check out the Avenue
Netﬂ  ix drinking game, electronic music 
show, bats and mediocre advice, pgs 9-13
Justin T ompkins/Alligator
Trace Hance, a 21-year-old UF telecommunication senior, poses for a group of about 600 students with his DeLorean car on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday for Back to the Future day celebrations. 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
After Gabriela Mayer had to 
take a materials course exam 
while fasting for Yom Kippur, she 
came up with the idea for a peti-
tion.The UF civil engineering ju-
nior said she circulated a writ-ten petition three weeks ago ask-ing UF not to schedule exams on 
Jewish holidays. On Monday, an 
online petition was made. As of press time, the online petition has about 900 signatures and the written petition has about 450 signatures.  
Mayer, 20, said she chose to 
take the exam while fasting for the Jewish holiday. If she didn’t, she’d either have to take the exam at the end of the semester before ﬁ  nals or take it at a time 
that conﬂ  icted with a class.
“It’s not fair to put yourself out 
there and say, ‘I’m Jewish, so I 
can’t take an exam on this day,’ 
and be behind in all your other classes because you’re choosing 
religion instead of education,” 
she said.
UF biochemistry junior Jonah 
Stein said he created the online Google form, which asks students to enter their name and UFID.
Stein, 20, said while he ap-
preciates UF’s commitment to 
allowing makeup exams, it’s not enough to accommodate Jewish students.
“It seems like the best overall 
solution is to just not have exams on Jewish holidays,” Stein said.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email that UF Provost Students petition for no exams on Jewish holidays
CRIME UF goes ‘Back to the Future’ 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Tuesday morning after police said he used 
his father’s credit card to spend more than $44,000. 
About 7:40 a.m. Tuesday, police arrested 
Stephen W. Maxwell, 38, for using his father’s 
Discover credit card be-tween Feb. 25, 2014, and June 30, 2015, according to a police report.
Despite not having per-
mission from his father, Maxwell still used the card to make 870 transactions 
that totaled about $44,305, 
according to the report.
Maxwell mostly used the card at bars, 
amusement parks, golf courses and fast-food restaurants, according to the report.
The father did not press charges, but then 
challenged the payments with Discover, which refunded all 870 purchases, according to the report.
Maxwell told police he had permission to 
use the card, and his father said the opposite. Police decided Maxwell used the card unlaw-fully and caused Discover to lose money, ac-cording to the report.
Maxwell declined to comment. Police arrested Maxwell on charges of 
larceny involving more than $20,000, fraud involving the use of another person’s identiﬁ  -
cation and fraud to obtain property valued at 
more than $20,000.
Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where he was released Wednesday af-ternoon on his own recognizance.Man arrested, 
fraud charges about $44,000SEE PETITION,  PAGE 4
Maxwell
It has about 450 signatures
“It seems like the best overall 
solution is to just not have 
exams on Jewish holidays.”
Jonah Stein
UF biochemistry juniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Cafe Cultural: Rhythm and 
Resistance
Join UF’s Hispanic-Latino 
Affairs department Thursday 
at 6:30 p.m. at La Casita for Café Cultural: Rhythm and Resistance. 
Come out to learn about some 
of the history of resistance in Latin culture and even par-ticipate in a Capoeira class for beginners, led by the Capoeira 
Academy of Gainesville. There 
will be free food, fun and friends. 
GatorNights ThrowBack
GatorNights will have an '80s ThrowBack Carnival-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. un-til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature a roller 
skating rink, carnival games and live music from the band WD-HAN, sponsored by RUB 
Bands. GatorNights will also 
show the movie “Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
The night will end with free 
breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must 
be current students to partici-pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Graduate Student Panel pre-
sented by HSFPre-professional? Come on out 
to our Graduate Student Panel 
where you will be able to learn more about various graduate schools. The event is free, dinner will 
be provided at no cost and 
scholarships are presented at every meeting. Join the pan-el in Little Hall room 239 on 
Thursday at 7:20 p.m. Please 
RSVP at bit.ly/1ZsLRKv and join the Facebook group at facebook.com/groups/hsfatuf. Email them at hsfscholarchap-
teruf@gmail for more infor-
mation.
Pledge Against Partner 
Violence Tie-dye Tee GiveawayWear your pledge to not engage in partner violence. STRIVE (Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal 
Violence Education) will trade you a tie-dyed T-shirt for edu-
cation about intimate partner 
violence and what you can do 
to prevent it. Today, Plaza of the Americas, 11 a.m. until supplies run out.
Halloween Show
Celebrate the spooky season with Puppets of the Dead: Punk Halloween Show, a thrill-
ing and funny punk-inspired 
Halloween variety show, host-ed by puppets. Local puppetry company DolphinWizard and local musicians will present an 
evening of festive fun Saturday 
at 10:30 p.m. at Maude’s Sidecar, located at  101 SE Second Place. UF students 
and alumni will perform on 
the patio by the Hippodrome State Theatre, featuring horror movie burlesque, creepy mu-sic played by local musicians, 
handmade puppets and more! 
DolphinWizard Company is an eco-friendly, alternative and educational troupe, deliver-
ing both high- and low-brow 
humor in irreverent and goofy Pop Rocks shows, featuring punk rock, movie and cartoon parodies, geek humor and 
more. The show is free, with 
tips and donations encour-aged.
Fall Theatre production
P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School’s Fall Theatre production tells the story of a family of exuberant and star-
tled kids left to fend for them-
selves as their mother and fa-ther take off to pursue a life of gambling. “Every 17 Minutes 
The Crowd Goes Crazy” is 
a dark comedy written by award-winning author Paul Zindel. This play features an exciting, diverse and creative 
chorus of actors who punctu-
ate this highly theatrical and poignant legend of family structure. 
See the play today and 
Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. in the P.K. Yonge Performing Arts Center. This creatively challenging story 
is rated PG-13. General ad-
mission tickets for “Every 17 Minutes The Crowd Goes Crazy” can be purchased at 
the door 45 minutes before 
the show begins for $10. For more information, visit the P.K. Yonge Performing Arts Facebook page or email Paul Gabbard at pgabbard@pky.
ufl.edu.
Adventure Race
Adventure Race 2015 will 
take place Saturday at Lake 
Wauburg. If you have not 
registered yet, you can still register on RSConnect to be on the waiting list if a team 
drops out. You can also come 
out and enjoy a day outside watching others compete.
Halloween theme at 
ToastmastersTalking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology 
Building, Room 1031, lo-
cated at 970 Natural Area Dr. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. This week’s 
theme is Halloween. It is OK 
to wear a Halloween costume and bring food for a potluck/open-house.
Drive a tractor at the Fall 
FestivalThe Agronomy-Soils Club presents the annual Fall 
Festival on Nov. 4 from 2 p.m 
to 5 p.m. at the Agronomy Teaching Farm, located at 2024 IFAS Research Drive. 
Activities include free food, 
games, harvesting crops, trac-tor driving and more. Support the Field and Fork Pantry with a nonperishable donation as 
admission.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 43
HIGH  84° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF study sends mice into space
UF sent mice to space.
A NASA-funded study, done in part by UF, focused on the muscle responses 
of mice that were in a space shuttle for 
two weeks. UF applied physiology and kinesiology professor Elisabeth Barton said she led the university’s part of the 
study.
She said the study, conducted at the NASA Shuttle Site in Titusville, looked at the strength and size of the mice’s muscles, specifically studying the differ-
ences between mice in space and those 
on Earth.The study found mice in space lost strength and mass in their leg muscles.  
They also lost cheek muscle strength, 
Barton said, but it was not as significant as their leg-strength loss.She attributed the cheek muscle strength to the mice’s chewing while they were 
in space.
“They were actually experiencing some load because they were chewing and generating force, but they were still up 
in space,” Barton said.
The study’s results could help prevent muscle changes in future patients she said.“That’s a nice example of saying that even if you are in an anti-gravity situ-ation or bed rest, if you exercise the muscles or move them around, then 
they can be protected from this loss of 
mass,” Barton said.
- Anisha Dutt
UF study proves humans caused some 
species’ extinction
For some animals, ice ages are easier to 
deal with than people. 
Through fossil analysis, UF researchers 
found certain animal species could more 
easily survive the lasting effects of an ice age than they could the effects of human 
contact, according to a study published 
Monday.
Ten thousand years ago, 22 species of 
birds, reptiles and mammals living on Aba-
co Island in the Bahamas survived climate 
change and rising water levels that resulted from the end of an ice age. 
But when humans came to the island 
about 1,000 years ago, the animals were 
wiped out, said David Steadman, who led 
the research.
“The species that are still living in Aba-
co are my heroes,” the ornithology curator 
at the Florida Museum of Natural History 
said. “They’ve been through a lot.”The excavations had been going on for 
about three years, but the analysis of the fossils happened in the past year, said Hay-
ley Singleton, 29, the study’s co-author and 
a UF master’s student in the department of anthropology. 
A new $375,000 National Science Foun-
dation grant will allow further exploration on the caves of the Caribbean island in De-cember, Steadman said.
“We know that humans alter their envi-
ronments all the time,” Singleton said. 
Steadman said his ﬁ  ndings can help the 
public better understand extinction from a long-term perspective.
He said the ﬁ  rst humans on Abaco 
probably made ﬁ  res, hunted animals and brought invasive species, which we con-tinue to do today. 
He said he was surprised at how much 
devastation one species can do to the rest 
of nature.
Singleton said what happened 1,000 
years ago is still happening today, but peo-
ple don’t realize their actions have conse-
quences. 
She said humans are capable of causing 
another mass extinction, and if they do, cli-
mate change will play a role.  
“I’m really worried,” she said. 
- Martin Vassolo
STUDENTS LEARNED 
ABOUT  ECO-FRIENDL Y 
TRANSPORTATION.
By Ronald J. Sonbeek
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students trickled through 
the North Lawn on Wednesday 
morning before rain ended the 
UF Office of Sustainability’s 
transportation fair.
The event served to educate 
about 60 students on how to 
make a more sustainable future 
by using eco-friendly transpor-tation, like walking, biking and busing, said Allison Vitt, the UF Office of Sustainability outreach 
and communications coordina-
tor. 
The event ended an hour 
early when the rain rolled in.
Before it poured, students 
milled around the annual trans-portation fair, which featured interactive displays and exhibits from organizations, like Student 
Government Bike Repair, Gator 
Gears and Regional Transit Sys-tem.  
The groups showed students 
the types of environmentally sustainable services they offer, from fixing bicycles to encour-aging students to bring reusable cups to the Library West Star-bucks.
Office of Sustainability intern 
Sky Button, 19, said the event 
shows how different campus 
organizations have a common commitment to sustainability. 
He said the main objective of 
the fair is to encourage students 
to reduce their fossil-fuel use by 
driving less.
“The main takeaway is to try 
to drive less and take the bus or more walk more often,” the 
wildlife and ecology conserva-
tion sophomore said.
Vitt said students want to 
know how they can get around 
without a car so they don’t have 
to find parking or deal with traf-fic hassles.
“I think it really speaks to the 
campus community as a whole 
that they’re looking for this kind 
of information,” Vitt said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
IT’S PEANUT BUTTER JELL Y TIME
About a dozen members of the UF Women’s Student Associa-
tion make peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to donate to the St. Francis House homeless shelter on Wednesday evening. St. Francis operates a 24-hour emergency food pantry, and the sand-wiches were to help those in need. They made 200 sandwiches.
Abby Stafford / Alligator
Former UF President Bernie Machen (left) talks with Mat-
thew Williams, the UF Office of Sustainability and Energy Integration director, about his electric bike at the Transpor-tation Fair  on Wednesday. Williams said e-biking is “the fast-est, easiest and most pleasant way to get around campus. ”
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twenty-five years ago, Mary 
Lisa Kitakis-Spano’s first patient 
was a little girl in bunny slippers.
The girl was receiving chemo-
therapy for cancer, but Kitakis-Spano wasn’t providing medical care — she was there to paint.
On Wednesday afternoon, 
Kitakis-Spano arrived to make holiday masks at the first Cre-ative for Health workshop, a col-laborative effort between the UF 
Center for Arts and Medicine and 
HealthStreet, a community en-gagement program. 
After working with the little 
girl, whom Kitakis-Spano de-clined to name for privacy rea-sons, Kitakis-Spano began spend-ing more and more time painting at the UF Center for Arts in Medi-
cine.
“We had the best time,” Kita-
kis-Spano said, remembering the 
shirt they painted together. “It 
was an instant connection.” 
The workshop was designed 
for individuals affected by can-
cer; however, no one other than the organizers attended the 
event.
“We are in a completely new 
area and not many people know about the workshops yet,” said 
Dylan Klempner, an artist in resi-
dence for the UF Center. “We are 
still in the process of reaching out to the cancer community.”
The original idea to host work-
shops came from a grant the UF Center won from the Livestrong foundation. 
They modeled the workshops 
after ones held by a creative cen-
ter in New York City.  
While the UF Center had a 
similar program last year with 
workshops for cancer patients, 
their families and caregivers in 
UF Shands Health Hospital, they are now hosting the workshops at HealthStreet, located next to The Commons at 2401 SW Old 
Archer Road. 
The partnership formed after 
both the UF Center and Health-
Street began looking for a way to 
reach out to the community and 
found each other.
“The arts are a really good 
way to build a community,” Kl-empner said.
Klempner said the workshops 
are designed so people affected by cancer can build a community and form relationships through the arts.
“For a lot of people, (cancer) 
can be isolating,” Klempner said.
Although there were no at-
tendees at the first workshop, the workshops will still continue ev-ery Wednesday from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. until Dec. 2. 
The workshops, each taught 
by a different center volunteer, will range from spoken word to holiday cards. 
Another session of workshops 
will begin in the spring, Kl-empner said.
“Being creative is good for 
us, but we forget about it some-times,” Klempner said.
While Kitakis-Spano was un-
able to teach mask making, she still thought of the little girl who inspired her years ago.     
“It was the best thing that ever 
happened to me,” Kitakis-Spano said.Workshop to spark creativity in Shands
Students learn to be more sustainable
Joseph Glover sent a memo Wednesday remind-ing faculty of UF’s religious observances policy. It encourages faculty to accommodate students’ reli-
gious observances and give a reasonable amount 
of time to make up work.
Students cannot be penalized for absences due 
to religious observances, according to the memo.
UF family, youth and community sciences 
sophomore Danielle Goguen said she saw the peti-
tion on Facebook. The Campus Crusade for Christ 
member said while she supports students not tak-ing exams on religious holidays, she thought it would be difficult for UF to reschedule them, espe-
cially during finals.
“I definitely think they deserve the time off to 
properly practice their religious or spiritual days,” 
the 19-year-old said.
Rabbi Adam Grossman, the CEO of UF Hillel, 
said it would be a sign of good faith from UF if professors did not schedule exams on Jewish holi-days, especially on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kip-
pur.
“It is a major difficulty for students to have to 
choose between taking an exam or celebrating 
their religious observance,” he said.
Grossman said the students who started the pe-
tition are a representation of UF’s Student Body.
“Empowered leaders who are taking this on as a 
mission are exactly what personifies the University of Florida and the talents that are there,” he said. PETITION,  from pg1Faculty received 
a memo about itFor those affected by cancer
“W e are in a completely new area and not many people 
know about the workshops yet. W e are still in the 
process of reaching out to the cancer community.”
Dylan Klempner
artist in residence
“I think it really speaks 
to the campus community 
as a whole that they’re 
looking for this kind of 
information.” 
Allison Vitt
UF Office of Sustainability 
outreach and communications 
coordinatorTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
LOCAL
By Ashley Martin 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Theresa Sterling’s passion is 
helping people learn how to read. 
As the literacy coordinator 
for the Alachua County Library 
District, Sterling ensures adults across the Gainesville community still have the opportunity to learn 
how to read. 
“Reading is a skill that gets 
better with intervention, instruc-
tion and practice,” she said. 
For her work with the program 
over the past three years, Sterling received the 2015 Carol Combs Hole Award last week. The award is given annually to staff within 
the library district in honor of 
Carol Combs Hole, a former staff member who worked in the dis-trict for 32 years. 
“She’s done amazing things in 
revitalizing the literacy program,” said Rebecca Kirkland, a library assistant at the Alachua County Library Headquarters. “She’s 
reaching a lot of people.”
The program, which Sterling 
coordinates and manages, draws 
volunteers from across the com-munity to work with non-English- 
speaking and dyslexic adults. The 
adults range from 40 to 76 years old. 
“It’s a real niche,” said Nickie 
Kortus, the library’s marketing and public relations manager. “She has that spark that makes everybody feel like they have the 
ability and they can do it. I think 
it’s a talent.”
With a master’s degree in 
applied linguistics and Teach-ing English to Speakers of Other 
Languages from the University of 
South Florida, Sterling matches tutors and learners, who meet 
twice a week, 
based on their 
personalities. 
Volunteers go through 24 to-tal hours of 
training before 
they can tutor. 
“It’s inten-
sive training and not everyone 
wants to do it,” she said. “But 
my districts ﬁ  gures, well, if we’re gonna have a literacy program, let’s do it right.” 
Sterling said it was neat to 
have her work with the program and the community recognized by her peers at the library. She hopes her work with the program 
will help reduce the stigma about 
adults who struggle with reading. 
“My vision is that in this 
community and beyond that we change the perception of folks 
who don’t know how to read or 
folks who struggle with reading because it’s not tied to intelli-gence,” she said. Literacy coordinator 
awarded for helping adults learn to read ELECTIONS COMMITTEE 
WAS ALSO ELECTED.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Senate 
elected a new parliamentarian and 
elections committee Wednesday evening.
The chamber voted 19-10 to 
elect Sen. Manu Osorio, who beat Sen. Benjamin Myers and a hand-ful of other candidates.While she said she isn’t knowl-
edgeable on all rules and proce-
dures, Osorio said she is conﬁ  dent 
she’ll learn quickly because of her time in Santa Fe’s Model United Nations club, which uses similar procedures and rules.
“So hopefully I know some of 
my procedure, (but) there is still deﬁ  nitely a lot I need to learn… I’ll admit that, but I’ll try my best to 
keep this chamber in order,” she 
said.
Osorio will now be responsible 
for ensuring the chamber follows procedures and rules.Andres Chinchilla, the former 
parliamentarian, resigned earlier 
this semester because he was too 
busy with classes, two leadership team members said.
“He felt obligated to fulﬁ  ll his 
job and he missed some classes be-cause of it,” said Senate President Carol Daugherty.
The chamber also elected three 
senators for its elections committee 
— Skyla Eastman for the academic 
senator seat, Kane Ahern for the club senator seat and Bianca Bar-rera for the at-large senator seat.SFC Senate elects parliamentarian
Sterling
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Whose Line is it Anyway? 
Eric Rose (right), a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering senior, raises Brett Pizzi’s hand in victory after 
he won a round of objection at a Theatre Strike Force improvisation show. The 18-year-old UF pre-health freshman countered the statement, “I get high, ” with, “You’re not a bird” to win.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnThe Wild West 
of the Internet is 
slowly but surely 
getting settled
Yesterday, YouTube — or Google; let’s just call it like 
it is — announced a new ad-free subscription service, Red. Red offers YouTube users the same convenience 
they experienced in the halcyon days of 2005, before 
content creators and public relations personnel caught 
on to how profitable the service really could be.
Although it’s been a long time since the Internet was a truly 
“wild” or “lawless” place, YouTube hopping on the subscription bandwagon is yet another indicator of the losing battle that’s be-ing fought by Internet users: keeping the Internet free.
The debate over whether the FCC ought to regulate broad-
band Internet service as a public utility earlier this year served 
as a sign of the times: Far from the time it was regarded as a 
niche pastime, the Internet is not only firmly entrenched in our culture, but also in our lives. Although the FCC’s decision to con-sider the Internet itself a public utility meant net neutrality — the 
notion that the Internet ought to be equally speedy and provide 
the same benefits to all without having to pay premiums — re-mained structurally sound as a principle, it didn’t stop things ON the Internet from being subject to profiteering.
Like everything else man has discovered/created/what-have-
you, the insistence on profiting off of the Internet will undoubt-edly render it wholly unrecognizable in a few decades. We’re not (entirely) casting judgment on those who have worked the In-ternet to their wallet’s advantage: After all, subscription services 
to publications like The New York Times means writers like us 
still get to enjoy putting food on the table, right? However, we would like to call attention to it, because it seems as though no one notices or appreciates how good they have it at the moment.
Even as legal — and costly — means of accessing content, 
such as Spotify, Netflix, Hulu and Steam take cultural prece-dence, BitTorrent websites like The Pirate Bay persist under legal pressure. The prosecution of Kim Dotcom, founder of file-hosting website Megaupload, may portend the future of enjoying 
“free” content from the Internet.
Determining the degree to which the Internet ought to be 
monetized and legally regulated is a tricky and multifaceted one. 
On one hand, ads are awful: They’re annoying, patronizing and are disruptive to enjoying pop culture in any medium (Hulu’s 
ads, which begin at seemingly random times during television 
programs, are a particularly egregious offender). On the other hand, given the Internet is our primary source for digesting con-tent, it is patently absurd to believe content generators (read: 
musicians, artists, journalists) should expect to have all of their 
work enjoyed for free.
This is a delicate balance for sure, but enticing consumers to 
pay monthly subscriptions through the promise of no ads sim-ply doesn’t cut the mustard. If Red represents the future of the 
Internet, we want out.
Must we let racists spoil ‘Star Wars,’ too? 
Most Monday nights I’m holed up in 
my apartment, elbow-deep in a bag of family-sized Ruffles, spending inter-missions between episodes of “Rose-anne” on Netflix visiting my ex-girl-
friend’s Facebook page (she is so much happier than I am). But this past Monday night was time for a change, and it was the Force that guided me from the dark, damp and Dagobah-like state of my bedroom to the buzz of Mother’s Pub and Grill just a block away. You know, the Force. The thing that gives a Jedi his or her power. That energy field created by all living things. The thing that surrounds us, penetrates us and binds the galaxy together.
Jerseys and backward caps gulped, chowed and fidgeted 
in their stools to the spectacle of Monday night football as I walked in. The myriad patrons taking advantage of the wings special surrounded my senses and mocked my hun-ger and lack of funds. But the clashing of fresh cold pints enticed me more. So, spending my last $5 on a Spaten, I made my way over to the big screen to note seven football-seconds before halftime. The main event of the evening. Two actual minutes went by when finally, a diminishing in the bar’s clamor was accompanied by a fade to black, signaling the genesis of greatness I had been waiting for.
Vast desert landscapes and fruitful ones alike material-
ized, both promising something familiar yet distinct. The whizzing of Tie fighters and X-Wings escorted by the su-premacy of John Williams’ score. The advent of new heroes and heroines with the appearance of the known and saga-cious. The Millennium Falcon! Lightsabers! All of it and more came together to rekindle my love for the most glori-ous space opera of our time. Excitement does not seem like an apt word to describe the feeling. I put back my last bit of beer — my own personal tip of the cap to the communal applause and merriment that followed.
Star Wars is back in full force, and with it a peerless pride shared by a community of some of the best fans the world will ever know. The debut of the “The Force Awakens” trailer is bringing together not only friends and fans, but boomers, nerds and — as Monday night exemplified — even those with jockish inclinations.
Given how many conversations I’ve started 
using “Star Wars” as an icebreaker — why both-er with charm when there’s “Star Wars?” — it has been hard to understand the recent backlash 
against the movie, with some claiming the upcoming film has an anti-white agenda due to the main character being black. Racist critics of the film took to tweeting #Boycott-StarWarsVII in overwhelmingly stupid futility due to what they perceive as a sort of affirmative action in the casting of the lead role.
Let me be clear: It’s not difficult to encounter racism. 
Although many would like to insist it existed a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, it’s still alive and well in our land of the free. In our schools, in our police precincts and police vans, on the exits of our highways and in our local governments.
It’s just hard to grasp the nature of the racist Star Wars 
fan. There’s a whole fantastical universe out there to be immersed in. How does white power not get checked at the door? Why is the myopia of reverse-racism attempting to coincide with a universe so infinite and full of adventure? No doubt these are questions that need answering by the prejudiced patrons of sci-fi. It’s doubtful their temper tan-trum will amount to much, but I’ve never been one to tell angered racists the odds.
In the meantime, a request: Please do continue to boy-
cott the film. The rest of us would enjoy our experience that much more at the premiere of “The Force Awakens” without having to sit next to any racist idiots.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe journalism junior. His column 
usually appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
While everybody was busy on so-
cial media waging a war over who did better in the Democrat-
ic debate, I was in the middle 
of a caffeine-ﬁ  lled all-nighter 
for a group project that prevented me from watching the debate live. However, miss-
ing out on the initial viewing of the debate 
proved to be an advantage, as I was able to sit down and actually take my time watch-ing the debate over the weekend. I did not have to bother live-tweeting it or looking out 
for others doing it. Instead, I could pause 
whenever I wanted without fear of missing anything. And this capacity for reﬂ  ection al-lowed me to realize who the real winner of 
the debate was: Anderson Cooper and, to 
a lesser extent, the rest of the moderators.
The moderators proved to be a stark 
contrast to the previous Republican debate hosted by CNN’s Jake Tapper, wherein 
a single question could lead into a circus 
show of candidates attacking each other. This time around, Anderson Cooper was able to keep the candidates in order and 
relatively on point with the issues.Cooper was able to do this 
with not only the lesser-known 
candidates on the stage, but also 
with the two frontrunners, Hill-
ary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Through this harsh and prompt questioning, he almost kept ev-
eryone a little bit on edge, quickly 
asking a follow-up question be-fore the candidates could just start rambling about policy points. Cooper was seeking to create a debate that actu-
ally focused on the issues and called out 
malarkey whenever it was present. The 
prime example would be the questioning of 
Lincoln Chafee about his vote for repealing 
the Glass-Steagall Act in the ‘90s. As Chafee 
began to shift his blame to him being new 
to Congress at the time of the vote, Coo-per pressed him further by questioning if he was able to make his own deci-sions. It was one of the ﬁ  nal nails in the Chafee campaign cofﬁ  n.
Even Hillary Clinton, someone 
criticized for not getting ENOUGH media criticism against her views and opinions, was the ﬁ  rst can-
didate Cooper confronted with 
questions. He questioned her po-litical beliefs and asked whether 
she changes those beliefs on a whim to appease whatever group of people she is 
speaking with. Mind you, this was the very 
ﬁ  rst question following the introductions 
from each of the candidates. Although Clin-
ton was able to keep her own, she did not 
have an easy job doing it.
Bernie Sanders also felt the burn, as he 
too was asked tough questions about his policies and his self-proclaimed status as a socialist, something the majority of Ameri-can voters still have uneasy feelings about. Some of his answers proved to be less than 
satisfactory during the debate. He will no 
doubt need to work on clarifying his poli-cies and ideology for the next debate.
Any decent debate requires a lot of 
things to go right, but the most important may be the capacity of the moderators to not only do their jobs effectively, but also be critical on both sides of an issue. While this debate was only within one party, it 
still brought out many differences between 
the candidates in a civil and orderly fash-ion. Anderson Cooper and the rest of the CNN team could have thrown softball ques-
tions at these candidates, but they instead 
(rightfully) chose the harder route, trying to make sure the candidates answered hon-estly and accurately. In a time when politi-cal reporting and paparazzi circuses have 
become one and the same, that should be 
applauded.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thursdays.
The real winner of last week’s debate: Anderson Cooper and the moderatorsColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
“Cooper was seeking to create a debate that 
actually focused on the issues and called out 
malarkey whenever it was present.”8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
ABOVE:
Trace Hance (left), a 21-year-
old UF telecommunication se-nior dressed as Marty McFly, and Bradley Bean, a 21-year-old industrial and systems engi-neering student, pose to syn-chronize their watches in front of Hance’s DeLorean car on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday. Hance allowed students to sit in the car and welcomed photos.
LEFT:
UF marching band students play the “Back to the Future” theme song on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas on Wednesday to celebrate Back to the Future Day. The sounds of trumpets and drums drew students’ attention to a Marty McFly look-alike driving 
a working DeLorean car.
‘Where we’re going, we don’t need roads’
TOP RIGHT:
Trace Hance drives away in 
his DeLorean with the driver’s side door open at the end of the Back to the Future Day festivities. His parents gifted him the car on March 14, 2012 because he had been a hard-core fan of the Back to the Fu-
ture series for so long. “The car 
was nothing I asked for, ” Hance said. “They just surprised me with it. It’s a real honor and privilege to own. ”
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Students attending the sur-prise Back to the Future event were handed fliers promot-ing the #FutureUF social me-dia giveaway. After taking a selfie with Century T ower and posting it to Twitter with the hashtag, students were entered into a drawing for a limited-edition Pepsi Perfect drink. The results will be an-nounced today at 2 p.m.
All photos by Justin T ompkins / AlligatorKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
The Jam hosts Over Easy Fest this weekend
It’s an electronic dance music festival, pg 13.What’s inside: 
Off The Record: Music Roundup, pg 10.Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 11. By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Hailing from Los Angeles 
neighborhood Panorama City, 
Hopsin is coming to Gainesville 
to headline the Funk Volume 
2015 Tour.
The rapper/producer/direc-
tor/avid skateboarder is tour-
ing with his label-mates Dizzy 
Wright, Jarren Benton and DJ Hoppa. Tonight, he’s making a stop at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 8 
p.m. and the show will begin at 
8:25 p.m. Tickets are available for $20 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com or for $25 at the door.
The tour celebrates the late 
July release of his latest album, “Pound Syndrome,” but the rap-per is already looking to the fu-ture.             
“It hurts me to know that I 
can’t work while I’m on tour,” 
Hopsin said, “because I don’t 
have my studio with me.”
Like many artists, Hopsin’s 
work is how he processes his life. He feels like he can’t truly under-
stand a situation until he writes 
about it.
When he returns home from 
touring, he’ll bypass his bed and 
his refrigerator in favor of his stu-
dio, he said.
The rapper compared the feel-
ing he gets when he’s forced to hold his thoughts to an all-too-
familiar situation: It’s like when 
you’re holding your pee all day and can’t ﬁ  nd a toilet.
“And just like, ‘I have to pee, and I can’t ﬁ  nd a f-----g toilet,’” he said. “That’s how it feels when I’m not in the studio, and I have a situation.”
Hopsin has found himself at 
an interesting point in his career. Despite having more than 2.5 million likes on Facebook, he’s not exactly a mainstream artist.
Although he enjoys ﬁ  rst-class 
ﬂ  ights and “fancy things,” he has never rapped about luxuries in the commonplace braggadocious 
style heard in today’s rap music.
He has, though, rapped about 
having cubic zirconia in his ears.
Typically, his rhymes and 
melodies reveal honest and intro-spective thoughts on his personal 
life.
But it would be dishonest not 
to mention his newfound success and lifestyle, he said.
He believes he would have to 
do it in a “Hopsin way” to stay true to himself and to his fans.
“I’m just trying to ﬁ  nd a way 
where I can talk about it in a way where people are like ‘Okay, 
that’s what he does now, but not 
in a Hollywood (way),’” Hopsin said.
He may ﬂ  y ﬁ  rst class to Aus-
tralia or to a luxury island, but he said he thinks to himself, “Dude, I’m ﬂ  ying ﬁ  rst class right now looking ﬂ  y as hell,” in awe of his situation.
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory 
Days Presents, wrote in an email Glory Days and High Dive have made a name by bringing in big and talented names in hip-hop 
the past few years.
“We are expecting a big mob of 
fans from all over North/Central 
Florida to be at this show since 
the tour is not in Tallahassee or 
Jacksonville, or even Tampa.” Lavery said.  “They are bringing a huge light show with them; it should be a spectacle to behold.”
Showgoers can expect “just 
crazy, wild energy,” and if the crowd is wild enough, crowd surﬁ  ng is something Hopsin is 
known for.
Lavery said Funk Volume has 
one of the biggest hip-hop tours 
of the fall.
Funk Volume is a Los Angeles-
based record label and marketing and production company founded in 2008 by Hopsin and Stanford master’s graduate Damien Ritter, 
according to the Funk Volume 
website.
Hopsin and the Funk Volume 
family have a huge presence on social media, Lavery said.
Hopsin is aware the Internet 
has helped him reach his current level of success.
“I do a lot of things that go vi-
ral, that’s because I understand exactly how to do it, and I know what it’s going to do,” Hopsin said.
Although he can’t pinpoint 
how many millions of views his releases will get, he is able to say it will “do something for sure.”
The rapper can attribute his 
success to his conﬁ  dence and high sense of self-awareness. He said he’s never thought, “I can never be something.”
“Life will give you whatever 
you want out of it as long as you take the time to just learn what you’re doing,” Hopsin said, “and once you understand, it gives you 
all the answers.”
He said it’s just like “The Ma-
trix.”
“You just gotta ﬁ  gure out the 
Matrix and realize that anybody can do it,” he said.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Los Angeles rapper Hopsin will headline tonight at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave., as part of the Funk Volume 2015 T our. Tickets 
are available for $25 at the door.
Hopsin to headline in GNV for Funk Volume 2015 Tour
MUSIC
“Life will give you whatever 
you want out of it as long 
as you take the time to just 
learn what you’re doing, and 
once you understand, it gives 
you all the answers.”
Hopsin
touring artistTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
MEDIOCRE ADVICEProven to Increase Readers’ IQTake a sip…
 Whenever Eustace is mad at Courage and says, “Stupid 
dog!”
 When Courage says, “The things I do for love.”
 If you catch the scary movie references or tropes
 If your palms get sweaty
 When a really creepy character stays for dinner
Take a shot…
 Whenever Courage says, “Either ……., or my name is 
…….., and itʼs not.”
 When the adorable Muriel exclaims, “Oh, my!”
 When Dr. Vindaloo recommends to keep soaking it
 If thereʼs a ﬂ  oating human head somewhere
 Whenever Ma comes to town
Finish your drink…
 Whenever Muriel almost dies, unbeknownst to her
 If you start reciting the whole theme song
 When you get really scared
 After you ﬁ  nish the series, before going to bed. 
Youʼll need it.Admit it: Before “American 
Horror Story” and “The Walk-
ing Dead,” you were terriﬁ  ed of Courage the Cowardly Dog.
Almost every evening on Car-
toon Network, the cartoon series would take viewers out of their beds and into his town called Nowhere, where he lived in the middle (middle of Nowhere; get it?) with his owners Muriel and Eustace Bagge. There, Courage would defend his owners from monsters, aliens, zombies and 
other creepy characters — and 
he would do so cowardly.
In 1999, the series had every-
one thinking, “How is this a kids show?” Now, rewatching the series on Netﬂ  ix has everyone thinking, “How would I watch this as a kid?”
The show has nothing to 
envy from the current horror series on TV. It was jam-packed with demonic faces, exploding organs, fetus blobs from Hell, creepy claymation and even a tree with an awkward human 
face on it.
Seriously, how was this a 
kids show?
The series lasted four seasons 
and has a total of 52 episodes. 
Courage and the show were ﬁ  rst introduced as a seven-minute animated short called “The Chicken from Outer Space.” 
The short was nominated for an 
Academy Award for Best Ani-mated Short Film in 1995. Now, it remains as a cult classic, hav-ing an 8.3/10 rating on IMDb.
If you’re ready to relive those 
childhood fears, look no further. Grab a blanket and a drink; here’s a drinking game to help 
you through.By Katherine Dagand
Avenue WriterBy Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
The Game
“The Documentary 2.5” - Oct. 16The Game raised the bar for rap albums in 2015 with 
“The Documentary 2.” The second part of The Game’s double-album “The Documentary 2.5” was released Fri-
day. “The Documentary 2.5” is 17 songs long — 18 if you 
count the iTunes bonus song “El Chapo” with Skrillex. The album comes with 30 featured artists including Anderson Paak, Lil Wayne, Nas, Jay Rock, Schoolboy Q and more. This second half of “The Documentary 2” has more of a ‘90s gangster-rap feel to it from the multiple skits, radio cuts, storytelling and songs detailing the struggle of gang life and making it out. The Game has been hyping “The Documentary 2” for a while now, and he deﬁ  nitely deliv-
ered. Absolute must-listen.
Raury
“All We Need” - Oct. 16Nineteen-year-old Atlanta-based rapper Raury released 
his debut album “All We Need” on Friday. Raury deliv-ers with a very strong debut just nine months after be-ing voted as part of the 2015 XXL Freshmen class. Raury deﬁ  nes what it means to be an artist. His sound is super 
dope as he bridges the gap between hip-hop, soul, folk, 
electronic and indie rock. Raury shows the direction new-school hip-hop is heading toward. In a time when new rappers are trying to sound like others already established in the game, Raury switches it up successfully. You prob-ably won’t hear Raury on the radio or in the club but that shouldn’t stop you from listening; it’s a refreshing break from the pure hip-hop scene.Machine Gun Kelly“General Admission” - Oct. 16MGK’s second studio album “General Admission” was 
released Friday. The Bad Boy artist’s sophomore album comes three years after his debut album “Lace Up.” “Gen-eral Admission” comes with 16 songs and only four fea-tures — most notably, Kid Rock. MGK’s hit singles “Til I Die” and “A Little More” are on the album as well. Ma-chine Gun Kelly won’t appeal to everyone, but I think most 
people would appreciate this album. “General Admission” 
is chill for the most part but has its turn-up moments. “General Admission” is a solid album that mixes both rap and rock music but leans more to the live-music sound. I’ve been looking forward to this album since MGK came to Gainesville to perform at The Venue in late August and it didn’t disappoint. Take a listen.
Joe Budden
All Love Lost - Oct. 16
Joe Budden, the New Jersey rapper who is also part 
of the rap group Slaughterhouse, released his third major-label album “All Love Lost” Friday. “All Love Lost” comes two years after his previous album, “No Love Lost,” but has fewer features and fewer songs. Although Joe Bud-den is constantly releasing music — whether it be albums, mixtapes or extended plays — this album is the ﬁ  rst proj-ect he’s released since his “Some Love Lost” EP released 
nearly a year ago. Joe Budden has had a rough past few 
years, and it shows on this album. Full of emotion, “All Love Lost” will leave you feeling something — good or bad. “All Love Lost” is a pretty good album. If you’re look-ing for new music, take a listen, but you aren’t missing out on anything huge if you don’t.   MUSIC ROUNDUP ff the Record
My roommate keeps coming out in 
underwear with my boyfriend around. How do I tell her it’s not cool? More im-portantly, how do I tell my boyfriend to stop looking?
- Anonymous
Easy ﬁ  x! Give your boyfriend an ul-
timatum. Trust me, as a guy, if there’s anything I have experienced ﬁ  rsthand that yields a positive response, it’s being given a completely un-reasonable ultimatum. It’s either this or that. Your way or the highway. No room for compromise.
So here’s what you do: You channel your inner 
Lady Gaga and start yelling at your boyfriend about how he secretly wants to bang your roommate and not you (make sure you exaggerate everything). 
Preferably do this while he is high or drunk; I 
recommend the former (that way he has a better grasp on what is happening).
Keep yelling and start throwing objects around 
the room: shoes, lamps, books, Nikes. It doesn’t matter what, as long as it will cause damage once 
impact is made. For the grand ﬁ  nale, pull out his 
favorite basketball jersey; hold it in front of you with a hand on either side as if you are going to rip it. 
This is when you deliver the ultimatum:“Chad, you either stop trying to have sex with 
my roommate when I’m not home or I’m ripping Allen Iverson aka ‘The Question’ aka ‘Pound for Pound the Greatest Player to Ever Live’ in half and you’ll never see me again.”
I think you’ll be surprised at how 
well this works! Let me know how it goes! 
Is it OK to pick your nose in front of 
your roommate’s boyfriend?
- Anonymous
First of all, everybody picks his or her nose and 
anybody who says they don’t can shove it. Saying you don’t pick your nose is like saying you don’t put your ear to your roommates’ doors at night and 
listen to them breathe while they sleep. I mean, 
obviously everybody does that. Even so, like listen-ing to your roommate’s labored sleep apnea-ridden breathing, there is a time and place for picking your nose. It’s OK to pick your nose, and it’s OK to pick your roommate’s nose, but I assure you, there is nothing OK with picking your roommate’s boyfriend’s nose — he has his girlfriend to do that for him.  
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English senior. 
His column appears in the Avenue section on Thursdays. 
If you have any questions you would like to see 
answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com.
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
Josephine Strating said she’s ex-
cited to see bats this weekend. She 
will join thousands of others who will explore the 110-acre ranch where the 11th annual Florida Bat 
Festival will be held.
The free event will take place from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Satur-
day at the Lubee Bat Conservancy, at 1309 NW 192nd Ave. Attendees will have the opportunity to see gi-ant fruit bats, tour the grounds and enjoy live music and local perfor-mances.
Strating, 21, who is a study-
abroad student at the UF for the fall, said she ﬁ  nds bats interesting.“How they ﬂ  y at night, and how 
they communicate,” she said of the bats, “it’s wonderful.”
In her home country of the Neth-
erlands, she said she worked at a for-tress. Bats lived at the top of towers and she would hear and see them at 
night.
Brian Pope, the director of the 
Lubee Bat Conservancy, has worked 
with the business since 2007, when he was hired as a curator.
He said this event is important 
because it’s the one day each year when the conservancy is open to the public. On other days, tours can be 
scheduled, but for the festival, every-
one is welcome.
For the ﬁ  rst year, he said, 60 peo-
ple attended. Last year, there were almost 4,500. This year he said he hopes to see 5,000 people come to the ranch. Seventy percent of attend-ees are locals from Alachua County, according to Pope, but the other 30 
percent come from all over the state 
and all over the country.
“There’s no other place like it 
anywhere in the world,” he said.
Part of the Lubee mission state-
ment is to educate, so Pope said he likes to engage and teach people, especially youth, about bats. That’s how the event began, he said. They 
wanted to have a fall event, and it 
grew over the years. He said the con-servancy marketed and gained many sponsors. They help cover the $4,000 to $5,000 budget for the event.
He said there will be more than 50 
vendors, live music playing, bounce houses for kids and food stands, as well as bat merchandise for sale. 
“We try to hit everybody with all 
the offerings we have,” he said.
The conservancy has 206 bats 
from 11 species, one tortoise, two skinks and two sugar gliders, Pope said. It has the largest species of bat in the world, the golden-crowned ﬂ  ying fox, which has more than a 6-foot wingspan.
“It’s organized chaos,” he said, 
“but I love the day.”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Florida Bat Festival is on Saturday, and the Lubee Bat Con-
servancy is home to 206 bats like these Malayan ﬂ  ying foxes.
Lubee hosts bat festival Saturday
LOCAL
HALLOWSCARE SCAVENGER 
HUNT IS ON WEDNESDAY.
By Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
The ﬁ  rst annual HallowsCARE scavenger 
hunt isn’t just another early Halloween festiv-
ity; it’s a fundraiser to help solve ongoing com-munity situations.
The scavenger hunt is a fully costumed 
amazing-race style event that will take place at 6 p.m. Wednesday. Teams of two to six participants will have to uncover clues hidden around campus within the time frame.
The event will beneﬁ  t The TRUing Project, 
said Kristen Bowen, 19, the director of fund-raising for The TRUing Project and creator of the HallowsCARE event.
“The funds that we raise from the event will 
be going back to The TRUing Project,” Bowen said. “We try to ﬁ  nd and create solutions for ongoing situations in the community and ﬁ  nd sustainable ﬁ  xes for them.”
Tickets are $10 when pre-ordered before 
Oct. 26 and will be $12 at the event check-in, located at the Heavener Courtyard, Bowen said.The TRUing Project is one of nine projects 
being undertaken by the UF chapter of Enac-tus, a national organization that focuses on creating sustainable impact on communities around the nation.
“The TRUing Project is named after the 
truing of a bicycle wheel,” Bowen said. “It’s a representation of helping people get their lives back on center.”
Amy Clear, the project manager of The 
TRUing Project, said the Enactus organiza-tion’s goal is to perform a needs analysis with-in a community and create a program that can evaluate that need and make a change. The TRUing Project’s goal is to help the Gainesville 
homeless population gain valuable skills to 
help them ﬁ  nd and maintain a job, Clear said.
“We realized that homelessness is a huge 
issue for our city speciﬁ  cally. A lot of home-less adults whom we have met have a three- to ﬁ  ve-year gap of unemployment that we call a resume gap. That gap makes it difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd and apply for a job because they are lacking general experience in the workplace,” Clear 
said.
Clear and other Enactus volunteers work 
with the homeless population of Grace Market-place three times a week for two-hour periods, 
Clear said. This mentorship program, which is actually a paid internship for the homeless individuals, helps the homeless interns gain professional skills as well as a unique skill that they can put on their resume — bike repair.
“One day a week, we work on interpersonal 
and business skills,” Bowen said. “We really try to help them grow completely to be a more 
desirable applicant to obtain a job.”
The other two days are spent at the soon-
opening FreeWheel Project bike shop, where 
The TRUing Project hires mechanics to teach homeless interns how to repair bicycles, Clear said.
“Gainesville is a super bike-friendly com-
munity, and we love that we can add to that movement,” Clear said. “We’ve gotten a ma-
jority of our bikes from apartment complexes 
where tenants have left them to rust. They are unusable so the complexes usually throw them away. Instead, we are able to remove the un-wanted object and create something of value.”
HallowsCARE will raise money to help The 
TRUing Project pay for mechanics, the rental of their bike repair shop space and for bicy-
cles that homeless interns can assemble or ﬁ  x, 
Clear said. The proceeds made from the bikes that the interns work on all goes back to the interns themselves, Bowen said.
“Enactus and The TRUing Project have 
shown me what a large impact you can make as an 18- or 19-year-old in the community,” Bowen said. “I tend to stress myself out and stress about my future. Seeing the little steps 
I can do to help other people puts my life into 
perspective and helps me prioritize others.”
Bowen said that Enactus is constantly look-
ing for volunteers to take part in their projects, and that information could be found at ufen-actus.org.
“Having a sense of pride again is really im-
portant,” Clear said. “When you’re surrounded by individuals in disparaging circumstances, 
you can lose that sense of pride and value. See-
ing that in our interns is the most rewarding part of it.” 
UF’s ﬁ  rst Halloween scavenger hunt to help community
“Gainesville is a super bike-friendly 
community, and we love that we can 
add to that movement.”
Amy Clear
project manager
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Living in Gainesville can sometimes lack excitement. 
While there is an abundance of trees, oftentimes resi-dents can ﬁ  nd themselves asking the age-old question: What is there to do this weekend?
Well, if you’re a local, there is a lot to do in the ‘Ville 
this weekend.
The Rocky Horror Picture ShowHippodrome State Theatre, 25 SE Second Place
The Hippodrome, casually referred to as the Hipp, will 
be bringing back its long-awaited interactive showing of 
“The Rocky Horror Picture Show.” The show allows au-
diences to interact with a live emcee. The showings will start this Friday at 11 p.m. and play on Saturday at the same time. Ticket prices are $15 and include a bag of fun props to use during the ﬁ  lm. Ages 18 and up, please.
Ward’s 64th Anniversary Fall Food FestivalWard’s Supermarket, 515 NW 23rd Ave.This Saturday, bring your appetite to Ward’s 64th An-
niversary Fall Food Festival hosted by Ward’s Supermar-ket. The chow down starts at 9 a.m. and is free to the community. The event is great for a casual day out with family and even a good date option for couples looking to pinch pennies. With BBQ-style food, the festival in the parking lot of Ward’s Supermarket is sure to be a hit — and in case you were wondering, the food is also free.
Newberry Cornﬁ  eld Maze
20015 W. Newberry Road
If you’re in the mood for some fall-style fun, then the 
Newberry Cornﬁ  eld Maze might be a good option for you. The event has been a cult classic in Gainesville for years, featuring a creepy maze, hay rides and a corner dedicated to fun and games for the kids. The event, running Friday 
through Sunday until Oct. 30, is good for a spook, but 
also fun for children. Tickets are available for $10 regular admission and $8 for children. Additional prices apply for hay rides. Be mindful that costumes, masks, bags of any sort and face makeup are not welcome in the maze. It’s a safety thing. For times and more information, visit newberrycornﬁ  eldmaze.com.
So whether you’re a zonked-out zombie student look-
ing for a quick break from the study grind or you’re look-ing for fun activities to do with the family, this weekend in Gainesville, there is something for everyone.By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
From acorns mighty oaks do 
grow.
With a new innovative invest-
ment app, students are encour-
aged to watch their wallets grow out of their own little acorns — their spare change.
Investment app Acorns guides 
its users in rounding up their dai-ly purchases and automatically investing their loose change into a portfolio for investments. Re-
cently, the app decided to make 
its services free for all students and people under 24 years of age.
The app originated in Newport 
Beach, California, when father-and-son duo Walter and Jeff Crut-tenden wanted to make investing easier for anyone with a smart-phone. Rather than having an 
older, more experienced group of 
users, the app’s main users were younger and inexperienced, but nonetheless eager to invest.
“Jeff recognized that his 
classmates were interested in in-vesting and wanted to start but couldn’t because of barriers like high-minimum and just lack of 
knowledge,” said Taylor Dance, 
who works in business develop-ment at the start-up. “Acorns was created to help people save and 
invest, make it very easy and very 
user-friendly.”
A year after the app launched, 
Acorns had about half a million investment accounts opened — 70 percent of those being to in-
vestors under 35, according to 
the app’s press release.
In other words: millennials.“We built it for the next gen-
eration of investors and that’s us, 
the millennials,” Dance said.
UF is in the top 50 college campuses using Acorns, he said.
The founders decided to con-
tinue motivating their main au-
dience and made the app free of management fees for students when they sign up using their student email addresses. Stu-
dents avoid paying the $1 month-
ly fee if their accounts’ balances are under $5,000, or 0.25 percent 
per year if their accounts are over 
that amount.
Acorns strives to make invest-
ing as simple as possible with an easy-to-navigate app.
“If you went to Starbucks and 
spent $4.60 with your card con-nected to Acorns, we recognize that transaction and then 40 cents 
will get put into your funds,” 
Dance said. “You can change the settings and determine how much you would want to round 
up…we give you a lot of control 
in your round-ups and how you invest,” she said. 
UF marketing sophomore Lau-
ren Lindsay, 19, found the app to 
be interesting and said she sees 
herself using it.
“I’ve always wanted to invest 
in stocks, but I was hesitant be-
cause of the risk of losing mon-
ey,” Lindsay said. “I think risk and lack of funds are the biggest reasons why people are scared of investing; this app addresses both 
those concerns very well.”
UF business administration 
fourth-year Kelsey Norris, 21, 
also sees use in the app.
“I fully intend on investing 
more money one day when I have a full-time career,” Norris said. “This app would allow me to start small and learn about the process 
before I graduate.” 
Both Norris and Lindsay feel 
it’s important to invest money. 
With Acorns, it’s easier for them 
to get started.
“This app does make it a lot 
easier for beginners to test the 
waters,” Lindsay said. 
The accessibility and simplic-
ity of the app is how the founders came up with its name. 
It was inspired by an old say-
ing: From acorns mighty trees do 
grow. 
“The idea here is small invest-
ments over time will grow with 
you and your future,” Dance said. “If you think of it as a tree, it 
starts out small and can grow into 
something very mighty.”THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Investment app Acorns allows its users to invest their spare change in the stock market. UF is 
among the top 50 campuses using the app, which is now free to students.
By T aylor Maloney
Avenue Writer
This weekend, The Jam will be trans-
formed into an interactive music festival.
Over Easy Fest is an electronic dance mu-
sic festival complete with $50,000 lighting equipment, 3-D art installations and an ar-ray of food trucks, said Les Voss, the owner of Over Easy Creative, the company hosting the festival. The festival aims to incorporate a variety of artists and art forms. More than 
15 jam and electronic artists will play on 
two stages from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. Saturday through Sunday at The Jam.
The Jam’s owner, Blake Briand, 37, said 
200 to 300 people show up for this festival. 
Tickets will be $10 before 7 p.m. at the door 
and $15 after, said Voss.
“They’re usually really big events,” he 
said.  
Briand, who got his start at The Jam three 
years ago, is always open to trying different events.
“I will kind of try anything once,” he said.Over Easy Fest got its start when Briand 
took a chance on hosting 300 college stu-
dents who wanted a fun place to experience 
music, a year and a half ago. It was a hit from the very beginning.
“It’s worked every time,” Briand said.Over Easy Fest is a high-level production 
thanks to Gator Sound and Lighting. The show will feature 3-D projection mapping, 
lasers and quality lighting, Briand said.
“It’s very colorful,” he said.
Because the show has been popular from 
the beginning, there hasn’t been a lot of room to grow.  
“The growth has been pretty moderate,” 
Briand said.
Briand works closely with Voss, the cre-
ator of Over Easy Fest.
“He’s great to work with,” said Briand 
about Voss. “He’s become a buddy of mine.”
Voss, 23, is currently taking a break from 
studying event management at UF to run his 
business, Over Easy Creative.
“I like the idea of using an event, a venue, 
as a blank canvas,” Voss said.
Voss said one of his friends who helped 
him start the business thought up the name when they were talking one day, and he 
stuck with it.
Voss was a promotional event coordina-
tor before he started his business. He found-
ed Over Easy Creative after being unsatisﬁ  ed 
with his job as a promoter.“Promotion is just kind of using people 
and it’s bullshit,” he said.
Instead, Over Easy Creative intends to 
weave art into an experience that demands 
all of your senses.
“We have this idea that everything is art,” 
Voss said.
The festival starts early and ends late to 
cater to different activities, from practicing yoga to multiple bars with Swamp Head Brewery beer on tap.
Voss teams with UF art students to en-
gage crowds with art ranging from painting to welding to lighting.
“All of the sudden, it’s lit up in a way 
that’s just kind of magical,” Voss said about 
the event.
A team of 15 imaginative people put on 
Over Easy Fest. Although the show is high quality, Voss’ organization isn’t strict like 
other businesses.
“We’re not a very serious company,” he 
said.The festival will also implement unique 
activities like a bounce house with carbon-
dioxide-blasting equipment, creating a cold 
fog.
“We just let our events speak for our-
selves,” Voss said.
Voss is looking into expanding Over Easy 
Fest. He wants to extend to Orlando, Jack-sonville, Tallahassee and Miami. But he 
doesn’t want to lose the laid-back vibe that 
this festival emanates.
“We don’t want to be an Ultra or a To-
morrowWorld,” Voss said.
Instead, Voss is committed to creating a 
festival that feels like home.
“When you get there and you see it and 
you feel it, you just understand,” he said.
Voss works on creating an experience be-
fore handpicking talented artists to perform. 
The talent that he does choose might not 
be the most well-known, but their music is good.
“It’s not how much the headliners costs, 
it’s how good their music is that matters,” 
he said.
He wants to set his events apart from the 
typical Midtown crowd.
“We’re putting that human aspect back 
into music and events,” he said.The Jam to host electronic music festival Over Easy Fest 
MUSIC
New investment app Acorns is now free for students
UF is in the top 50 colleges using it
“W e’re putting that human aspect back 
into music and events.”
Les Voss
 Over Easy Creative ownerTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-23-15-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD FRIDAY, OCT. 30, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
10-26-15-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
A North Florida sign-language teacher and/or lead teacher aide is presently on duty in Alachua County. Call my service, obtain ref-erences, etc. 352-375-8606     10-26-5-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatest
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 15 Services 19 Connections 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's women's tennis team 
will be led by its lone senior, Brianna Morgan, as the Gators look to get back on track at the USTA/ITA Regionals today. Read the story on pg. 20. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior garners pre-season award
Florida men's basketball power forward Dorian Finney-Smith was named to 
the Pre-season All-Southeastern Conference Second-T eam, the conference announced on Wednesday. Finney-Smith led the Gators in scoring (13.1 points per game) and rebounding (6.2 per game) last season. First-year Florida coach Jim McElwain and 
ﬁ  rst-year Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh have brought life to their respective pro-grams. The Gators are 6-1, ranked No. 13 in the country and on top of the Southeast-
ern Conference Eastern Division. The Wolver-ines are 5-2 and ranked No. 16 in the country despite losses to two top-10 opponents. Both programs seem revitalized and their devoted fan bases are optimistic the teams will contend for a spot in the college football playoffs. Alliga-torSports editor Graham Hall and managing/online editor Jordan McPherson debate which Jim has had the best start to the year consider-ing the programs each coach took over. 
Hall:  What Jim McElwain has done for 
Florida’s program in his ﬁ  rst year has been 
nothing short of transcendent. To say the Gators struggled last year on offense is an un-derstatement, and the loss of defensive end 
Dante Fowler Jr. signaled a drop off for one 
of the best defenses in the nation. However, Florida looks improved on both ends of the ball under McElwain. The offense, despite losing starting quarterback Will Grier for a year due to suspension, has been a breath of fresh air in Gainesville. 
The Gators have been able to score con-
sistently on formidable SEC opponents — 38 
against Ole Miss and 28 against both LSU and 
Tennessee. McElwain got freshman receiver Antonio Callaway to commit on signing day, and the Miami native has shown signs of being a star in the making. McElwain has the Gators optimistic they can run the table and hang with the best teams in the SEC. 
Former coach Will Muschamp may have 
recruited most of these players, but they’re 
McElwain’s players now. And UF’s defense 
has proven they don’t need Muschamp to play at a high level. I know the season is early, but early indications indicate McElwain will lead the Gators back to competing on the national level. 
McPherson : 
I’m not discredit-
ing anything McEl-wain has done — he’s turned this Gators foot-ball team around faster than anyone expected was possible.
However, what 
Jim Harbaugh has done in Ann Arbor, Michigan, is nothing 
short of spectacular. 
The 2014 Michi-
gan team was argu-
ably the worst since Rich Rodriguez’s ﬁ  rst two years lead-ing the program in 
2008 and 2009, when the Wolverines went 3-9 and 5-7.But Harbaugh and his get-it-done attitude 
has lifted this team back to national talks, even with a 5-2 record (which was a horrible last-second punting mistake away from being 6-1).
The defense is arguably the best in the na-
tion. The Wolverines posted three straight shutouts this season — the ﬁ  rst team to do so since 1995. And they didn’t do it against cup-cakes. Michigan held then-No. 22 BYU, Mary-land and then-No. 13 Northwestern to zero points (It’s incredible what D.J. Durkin is able to do when he has freedom to call the shots). 
Florida’s defense — while still highly touted 
— hasn’t done that yet despite having an over-
all more talented group.
While Michigan’s offense has been a mid-
dle-of-the-road group at best, it ﬁ  nds ways to 
make the plays when needed.
Hall:  Michigan has admittedly been im-
pressive defensively, but they’ve yet to win a game against an opponent that they shouldn’t have. Their best victory is against an over-hyped Northwestern team that found itself 
decimated by Iowa on Saturday. The point 
remains that Michigan hasn’t won many big games under Harbaugh yet. McElwain and the Gators crushed then-No. 3 Ole Miss by 28 points, and followed it up with a dominant 21-3 beatdown of Missouri on the road. Sure, shut outs are impressive, but this is where the SEC bias comes into play. 
The team had multiple opportunities to win 
statement games under Harbaugh already, but they didn’t and therefore I can’t rank Har-baugh’s early season performance ahead of McElwain’s. 
Although, I must say that you’re right about 
D.J. Durkin’s revitalization of that defense. Maybe Florida’s defense was great because of Durkin rather than Muschamp. Who has had a better ﬁ  rst season so far: Jim Harbaugh or Jim McElwain? 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF football coach Jim McElwain walks out of the tunnel prior to Florida's 14-9 win 
against Kentucky on Sept. 19 at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
JORGE POWELL WAS 
INJURED ON SATURDAY 
AGAINST LSU. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
With the Gators holding kicker 
tryouts this week to try and ﬁ  nd 
some more depth, coach Jim 
McElwain announced on Wednes-
day that kicker Jorge Powell is out for the season.
Powell was hurt during a kick-
off in the ﬁ  rst quarter in Florida’s 35-28 loss to LSU on Saturday.
 McElwain didn’t specify what 
type of injury Powell had, but mentioned that he is “obviously done”
Powell’s knee injury, along 
with the uncertainty of Austin Hardin, is one of the reason’s 
why Florida de-cided to hold kicker tryouts this week. 
McElwain  
said 216 people tried out for the spot and he’s looking for 
someone who can just make the kicks.
“Well as long as they can ﬂ  ip it 
up there through the uprights, I’m good with it,” McElwain said. “By 
the end of the week, we hope to 
have some candidates that could come out and help us.”
UF’s ﬁ  rst-year coach also said 
that he had a walk-on kicker be-come the starter while he was at 
Colorado State.
McElwain said he expects Har-
din — who’s been dealing with 
a right leg injury and ﬁ  lled in for Powell when he went down 
against LSU — will be ready to go 
when the Gators take on Georgia on Oct. 31 in Jacksonville.
McElwain looking for 
running back consistency:
Following a dismal running 
performance against the Tigers last weekend in which the Gators 
gained just 55 yards on the 
ground, McElwain stressed the Gators kicker out for the season 
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
With a three-way tie for ﬁ  rst 
place in the Southeastern Con-ference, coach Becky Burleigh's 
Gators have little room for error. 
The No. 8 Florida soccer team 
will host No. 17 South Carolina to-
night at 7, looking for some breath-
ing room at the top of the leader-
board.
Florida is 20-5-1 in the all-time 
series with South Carolina, but the momentum has shifted in the Gamecocks' direction as of late. 
The Gators have dropped three 
of the last four to the Gamecocks (11-3-1, 5-2-1 SEC), including the previous two games in Gainesville.
Despite the ﬁ  rst-place tie, both 
teams are trending in opposite di-rections at the moment. 
The Gators (11-3-1, 5-2-1 SEC) 
have won their previous three 
games, while the Gamecocks have 
lost their last two.
Both of the teams that have UF to face 'Cocks in 
battle of top SEC teams
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 19
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Graham 
Hall
twitter: @graham311
SEE RALLY,  PAGE 19
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 19SOCCERTHE RALLY
Powell 
Wednesday might have 
been “Back to the Fu-ture” day for the rest of 
the country, but for col-
lege football fans, Dec. 
12 is the day that will feel like a ﬂ  ashback to 1985.
That’s when the sport’s most 
prestigious individual award, the Heisman Trophy, will be given to a running back — a rarity in this day and age, but yet an almost certainty 
given the plethora of top-notch run-
ners this season.
In today’s football environment, 
ﬁ  lled with spread, up-tempo offens-
es and rules that favor them over 
defenders, quarterbacks have domi-nated both on and off the ﬁ  eld while running backs have suffered.
In fact, other than Alabama’s 
Mark Ingram in 2009, every Heis-man winner has been a quarterback since the 1999 season — a major shift from where the sport used to 
be.
Back in 1985, Auburn running 
back Bo Jackson became the 12th 
running back to win the award in a 14-year span, and that’s not includ-
ing Ohio State’s Archie Grifﬁ  n’s sec-
ond Heisman-winning season within that timeframe.
But in 2015, we’re getting a re-
minder of what it used to look like, however brief it may be.
First, there’s Leonard Fournette, 
the Heisman favorite by a country mile. Through just six games, the 
man looks like the second-coming 
of 1982 Heisman winner Herschel Walker, chalking up over 1,200 yards and 14 touchdowns while averaging 
eight yards per carry and seemingly 
ﬁ  ve broken tackles per play.
For perspective, his 180-yard per-formance against Florida on Satur-day was considered a slow-day.
But he’s far from the only domi-
nant back this season.
Just up in Tallahassee, Florida 
State’s Dalvin Cook is having a sea-son any player not named Fournette 
would dream of.
In fact, in any other season, the 
Seminole would likely be the most 
talked about player in college foot-ball. 
Cook has quietly rushed for 955 
yards and 10 touchdowns this sea-son while averaging more yards per carry (8.7) than Fournette, using bursts of speed and agility to make opposing defenses look silly with each cut and acceleration — not unlike 1988 Heisman winner Barry 
Sanders.Clemson coach Dabo Swinney 
even called Cook “the best running 
back in the country” earlier this 
week.
There’s many more, too, like Ohio 
State’s Ezekiel Elliott (988 yards, 11 
touchdowns), Oregon’s Royce Free-
man (997, nine touchdowns) and Al-
abama’s Derrick Henry (901 yards, 12 touchdowns).
And if it weren’t for the gruesome 
season-ending leg injury he suffered 
against Tennessee, Georgia’s Nick 
Chubb would be right there among those guys, if not better. At the halfway point of the year, 
all of those players, plus a few oth-ers, have a feasible chance of reach-
ing the 2,000-yard mark this year — 
something only three players have done in the last six years.
And, more importantly, they’re 
all candidates to reach New York as a Heisman Finalist with a chance to be remembered among the likes of former Heisman-winning running backs like Marcus Allen and Tony 
Dorsett.
Interestingly enough, they might 
even manage to sweep the ﬁ  nalist 
spots this season, an unthinkable 
feat in this quarterback era. 
Among the top-10 quarterbacks 
in terms of passing yards this year, 
I was only able to recognize three names — TCU’s Trevone Boykin, 
Ole Miss’ Chad Kelly and Louisiana 
Tech and former Florida quarterback Jeff Driskel.
Besides what now looks like a 
ﬂ  uke win over Alabama, Kelly hasn’t done anything worthy of being con-sidered for an invite. And as much improvement as Driskel has shown from last season, playing in Confer-
ence USA doesn’t merit a trip to New 
York.
Boykin has the best chance to get 
invited, but even he has had a quiet 
season compared to the expectations 
many had for him before the start of the year.
And that leaves the door wide 
open for all of these running backs 
to cut, juke and bulldoze their way 
to that famous stiff-arming trophy.
If you enjoy that fact as much as 
I do, soak it in — in the modern era, 
we may not see another year like this 
again for a long time.18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
Friends ofthe
Library
LibraryFriends ofthe
Library
Most prices 25¢ to $4
In 64 categories such as Mystery, Sci-Fi, comics, 
manga, non-ﬁction, education, cook books, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records, and more
Bring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
T ue/s.end1/2
pric/e.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.end1/21/21/21/2
pric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.end
We/d.end ever/y.end We/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.end
thin/g.end10¢
ever/y.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end10¢10¢10¢10¢
FOLACLD.org
@FOLACLDBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
.com/FOLACLD@FOLACLD
430 N. Main St.Sa/t.end. Oc/t.end 24
Su/n.end. Oc/t.end 25
Mo/n.end. Oc/t.end 26
T ue/s.end. Oc/t.end 27
We/d.end. Oc/t.end 289a/m.end - 6p/m.end
noo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.end
AP Photo
Florida State running back Dalvin Cook eyes the endzone a he makes a 14 yard touchdown run during 
FSU’s 41-21 win over Louisville in T allahassee on Saturday. 
JUST SOME HACK
Running backs are making a resurgence and dominating college football 
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
McPherson:  Yes, Michigan lost two po-
tential “statement” games — its 24-17 season-
opening loss against Utah and last weekend’s debacle against Michigan State. But you can’t dismiss the Wolverines’ ranked wins against 
BYU and Northwestern. Both came with the 
Wolverines being the underdogs. Yes, they’re lesser opponents than the two losses, but they’re still ranked wins.
And Harbaugh has turned the little bit of 
talent he had into a formidable group. Just look at the talent discrepancy between the two teams. The Gators have four five-star recruits leading the defense. Michigan’s top players? 
Linebacker Desmond Morgan, safety Jeremy 
Clark and defensive tackle Willie Henry — all three-star recruits.
McElwain had two of the top-three dual 
threat quarterbacks from the 2013 recruiting class in Grier and Harris to play quarterback in addition to running back Kelvin Taylor, tight end Jake McGee and receivers Demarcus Rob-inson and Antonio Callaway. 
The Wolverines are using Iowa transfer 
Jake Rudock — a career 60-percent completion passer — as their signal caller, a four-headed monster at running back and don’t have a re-ceiver with more than 28 catches.
Yet somehow, the Wolverines are still av-
eraging 28.6 points per game, a mere three points less than the Gators.
But three points won’t make a difference if 
the Gators are the ones needing the field goal.
Hall:  You can’t mention what Jim Har-
baugh has done with less talent while ignoring what McElwain and offensive line coach Mike Summers have done with UF’s protection. 
Florida’s offensive line came into the sea-
son with very little experience — redshirt senior Trip Thurman started 10 games last season, the most of any offensive lineman on the team — but McElwain and Summers have the unit holding their own against some of the SEC’s premier defensive ends. 
Where it stands, the Gators are still in the 
conversation to win the SEC. I don’t think Michigan, who’s fourth in the East, can say the 
same in the Big Ten, unless Michigan State and Ohio State somehow lose more than one game. 
If McElwain gets the Gators to Atlanta to 
play in the SEC Championship game, he’s 
clearly had a better season than Harbaugh. 
McPherson:  McElwain probably will get 
the Gators to the SEC Championship, espe-cially if they win against Georgia next week in Jacksonville. 
But with the SEC East basically falling apart this season, it’s not all McElwain’s doing if Florida makes it to Atlanta. 
Frontrunner Georgia lost Heisman can-
didate Nick Chubb and two games; an “im-proved” Tennessee team is 1-2 in the confer-ence; Hell, Kentucky is still in the mix halfway through the conference slate. If that doesn’t tell you something about the state of the SEC East, 
I don’t know what does. 
Harbaugh and Michigan might not win the Big Ten this year, but if the cards play out, the 
Michigan-Ohio State game to close out the sea-son might change that.
Regardless, Harbaugh has shown this year 
that he knows how to coach a ball game and made the Wolverines a force to be reckoned with again.
Who do you think won? Vote online at al-
ligator.org/sports. Results will be in Monday’s edition of the paper.
RALLY,  from pg17importance of having a consistent 
ground attack down the stretch.
In Southeastern Conference 
games, Florida ranks 12th in rush-
ing yards, averaging just 99.4 yards 
per game. 
UF is also last in the SEC in yards 
per carry in conference games as it 
averages 2.86 yards per carry.
Running back Kelvin Taylor 
hasn’t been much better as he’s av-
eraging 3.37 yards per carry in five SEC games. 
McElwain said having a consis-
tent running game from now until the end of the season will go a long way in determining how strong the 
team will finish.  
“It’s huge,” McElwain said. 
“I think all great teams are built 
on being able to run the football. … We need to continue to get better 
at that.”
Injury updates:  Tight end 
C’yontai Lewis hasn’t seen the field 
for UF since the second game of the season. 
Lewis has been dealing with 
a hand injury and while McEl-
wain was optimistic he would 
play against LSU, the doctors and trainers had other ideas and Lew-is didn’t make the trip to Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
McElwain said he is using the 
bye week to have the doctors and trainers take a closer look at Lewis’ hand, and that he hopes to have 
him cleared for next week’s game 
against the Bulldogs.  
“We’ll hopefully get him this 
week and get some work in defi-nitely get ready for the following 
week.”
Lewis has three receptions for 
50 yards and two touchdowns this 
season.
McElwain also said linebacker 
Alex Anzalone is still progressing, but that he’ll probably be doubtful for the next few weeks. 
Offensive linemen Kavaris Har-
kless and Travaris Dorsey are ex-pected to be back at practice this week.   NOTEBOOK,  from pg17Florida is last in yards 
per carry in SEC games 
beaten South Carolina during its 
current streak were defeated by the Gators earlier in the season, 
as Ole Miss and Vanderbilt have 
come up short against UF by re-spective scores of 4-1 and 3-2.
However, that doesn’t change 
how UF will approach this highly anticipated matchup. 
Both teams are fighting for a 
top seed in the SEC tournament, and with just three games left for 
each side, every match matters.
Much of the Gators’ recent 
struggles can be attributed to the 
lack of focus that the team dis-
plays towards the end of games.
The past two games — both re-
spective 2-1 wins against LSU and 
Mississippi State — have seen Florida give up last-minute goals.
Although the goals didn’t make 
a difference in the result, the mis-takes that were made will not be as forgiving against a tough South 
Carolina team.
“We just need to end the games 
and continue giving 100-percent 
effort all the way through the 90 minutes,” senior defender Claire Falknor said.
South Carolina will provide 
an intense battle for UF, and the “Gators soccer” mindset should 
be in full swing at James G. Press-
ly Stadium.
“We just need to play with…
a good one-two-touch rhythm, 
continue to defend hard, but pa-
tiently, (and) deal with set pieces effectively,” Florida coach Becky Burleigh said of the style of play she’d like to see.
An obstacle Florida will have 
to overcome leading up to to-night’s game is keeping in mind that there is another game in just 
three days.
Two-game weekends are chal-
lenging because it requires the 
team to compile its strategy for each game based on the entire weekend.
Unlike last weekend, which 
consisted of just one game — the win over MSU — the Gators have 
two matches to think about be-
tween tonight and Sunday night, when they will play Arkansas on Senior Night.
Last weekend, the Gators used 
just four subs in the Mississippi State game, whereas the weekend before that — a two-game week-end — 13 players were brought 
off the bench between the two 
games. 
“We won’t have that luxury 
this week,” Florida coach Becky 
Burleigh said of the ability to 
control substitution patterns this weekend.
“We’ll be relying on more 
players.”
While multi-game weekends 
can be tricky, Burleigh knows where the team’s head needs to be when the starting whistle 
blows.
“The most important game is 
the next one," Burleigh said, "and 
that’s the South Carolina match."SOCCER,  from pg17UF is focused on closing games strong
AP Photo
Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh calls for a flag in the first half of the team's 28-0 win over Maryland on Oct. 3 at Byrd 
Stadium in College Park, Maryland. 
“W e just need to end 
the games and continue 
giving 100 percent effort 
all the way through the 90 
minutes.”
Claire Falknor
UF senior defender 20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
Sometimes the quietest leader’s actions 
resonate loudest. 
Lone senior Brianna Morgan has been de-
scribed as the silent leader on the women’s 
tennis team. 
Morgan will quietly lead her team to Ath-
ens, Georgia, today for the USTA/ITA Region-als.
After losing in the quarterfinals of the Riv-
iera/ITA All-American Tournament, the Gators are looking to get back to winning in this week-end’s tournament. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist said the team 
was not happy with the way it played, but the Gators learned many lessons from their loss.
“I don’t think we saw the All-American 
Championships as a huge success but at the same time we showed our depth,” Thornqvist said.
The Gators faced difficult opponents in the 
tournament, many of whom will be competing 
in the USTA/ITA Regionals this weekend. 
There were some high points in UF’s play, 
especially junior Belinda Woolcock’s upset of Miami’s No. 6- ranked Stephanie Wagner, 6-1, 
6-3.
Overall, Thornqvist said his team is playing 
well and has improved on a lot of the things that he thought needed work — most notably the team’s doubles play.
“We have four teams who can all win this 
tournament this week,” Thornqvist said. 
“And that’s never happened in my 15 years 
here at Florida.”
The 2014-2015 season saw the Gators go 
44-19 overall in doubles, including a 19-9 re-cord in the Southeastern Conference.
The then-freshman Brooke Austin and then-sophomore Kourtney Keegan were ranked No. 1 for the Gators last season. 
The pair are currently ranked No. 1 in the 
country and will open up as the top-ranked seed this weekend. 
Keegan and Austin have a 25-4 career re-
cord when the pair compete as a doubles team. 
The other doubles team that will be com-
peting is the duo of Morgan and sophomore Anna Danilina. 
But unlike Keegan and Austin, their season 
has gotten off to a rough start. 
Read the rest of the story online at www.
alligator.org/sports.UF looks to senior leader heading into USTA/ITA Regionals