We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 149 TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
UF baseball earns national seed
The Gators will host an NCAA Regional this 
weekend after winning the SEC T ourna-ment, pg 14.
Experts: Calm hurricane season coming, but 
still prepare
Their thoughts and tips, pg 3
UF engineer appoints new CISE chair
He was hired under UF’s preeminence plan, pg 7.Follow the Alligator on Twitter
For updates on local news and coverage, follow
us on Twitter @TheAlligator.
LOCAL
By Karen Kacir
Alligator Contributing Writer
PALATKA, Fla. — The festi-
val sprawled along the St. Johns 
River waterfront, within walking 
distance of houses with bunting 
and historic plaques on the porch-es. On one end of the setup were carnival favorites, including a fun 
house, a looping roller coaster, gi-
ant slides and skee ball. On the opposite side, an entertainment tent was erected.
The Palatka Blue Crab Festi-
val celebrated its 27th year this weekend. A Memorial Day tra-dition, the free festival featured ﬁ  reworks Saturday night and a 
parade Monday.
Between the entertainment tent and carnival rides, a strip 
of vendors ran parallel with the river. A concrete building under construction blocked most of the afternoon sun Friday. In its shad-
ow, a machine whirred next to 
4th Day Homemade Ice Cream.
Beauxdeen Davis, one of the 
owners, said the name refers to the day after Christ’s resurrection. The fourth day, he explained, re-fers to using the rest of one’s life to serve God. Many customers ask about the signiﬁ  cance of each particular day, Davis said.
“Then they ask me what’s 
ﬁ  fth day,” he said. “I say, ‘I don’t know. I’m not there yet.’”
Davis and his wife, Laurie, 
launched 4th Day Homemade Ice Cream in 1995. Davis said 
the inspiration for the business 
came to him at a festival in North Carolina, where a vendor selling homemade ice cream could not 
make the ice cream fast enough to 
satisfy demand. Frustrated at the lack of efﬁ  ciency, Davis decided he would improve the process.
“I said, ‘I’ll make myself a ma-
chine that makes it faster,’” he said.  
That machine churned ice 
cream beside their tent and has 
for 20 years at the Palatka Blue 
Crab Festival.  Annual blue crab festival continues
By Katrina Alvarez
Alligator Contributing Writer
In honor of Memorial Day, 
Body by Boris hosted a Memorial 
Day Murph event to raise money for the Jonathan Cote Memorial Scholarship that is awarded to vet-
erans attending UF and Santa Fe 
College.
The purpose of the scholarship 
is to bridge the gap between veter-ans returning home and coming to their ﬁ  rst semester of college and the time period before the GI Bill kicks in, said Chris Boris Marhefka, owner and coach at Body by Boris.
Their goal for the event was 
to raise $1,000, which they sur-passed.
The scholarship was started 
after former UF student Jonathan Cote was killed in the Middle East while returning to work as a securi-ty contractor in 2006. The workout, known in the Crossﬁ  t community as “Murph,” was named after Lt. Michael Murphy, who was killed 
in 2005 on a mission to capture a 
key Taliban leader in Afghanistan.
More than 35 people participat-
ed in the Murph workout, which consisted of a 1-mile run, 100 pul-lups, 200 pushups, 200 squats and ended with a 1-mile run.
Jason Lentz, 24, a head coach at 
Body by Boris, said he was excited 
to complete the Murph workout.
It was the ﬁ  rst time Body by Boris has done a full-scale Murph, Lentz said
For a photo from the event, see 
pg. 5.Gym hosts fundraiser 
 on Memorial DaySEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 4
SEE CRABS,  PAGE 4Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Gainesville District 1 County Commissioner Mike Byerly unearths white cardboard tombstones that memorialize the fallen U.S. 
soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan on Monday. The Veterans for Peace’s Gainesville Chapter 14 planted the tombstones to remind the public on Memorial Day of the true consequences of war. The group started the display in 2007 and has continued every year after. However, this year may be their last because the city has ordered road construction on Eighth Avenue.By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Scott Camil spent most of his Memorial Day 
weekend on Northwest Eighth Avenue just like 
he has since 2007.
Camil, a Vietnam War veteran, and the 
Gainesville chapter of Veterans for Peace held 
the ninth annual Memorial Mile this weekend, 
which lasted from Saturday morning until Monday night.
Camil, the president and founder of the 
chapter, stayed up through the night Friday setting up 6,728 cardboard tombstones — each representing a U.S. soldier who died in Afghan-istan since 2001 and Iraq since 2003 — along with other members to prepare for the event’s 
start Saturday morning.
The tombstones, standing in rows of four 
on the grass patch adjacent to the sidewalk that 
holds the Solar System Walk, spanned nearly 3/4 of a mile from Northwest 34th Street to Northwest 23rd Street on Eighth Avenue, ﬁ  ll-ing the entire grass strip on the south side of the street and taking up another third of the north side.
But after lining up these miniature monu-
ments for nine consecutive Memorial Day 
HONORING 
FALLEN 
VETERANS 
It ran Fri. through Mon.Memorial 
Mile held for 
9th, possibly 
inal, time
“They ask me what’s ifth day. 
I say, ‘I don’t know. I’m not 
there yet.’”
Beauxdeen Davis
Owner of 4th Day Homemade Ice 
Cream, participant in the 27th an-
nual  Palatka Blue Crab FestivalSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 149
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  68°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Night Swing Dancing at 
the UF School of Music
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club invites you to our weekly 
dance this and every Friday. We will have a free lesson for beginners and intermediates 
open to everyone starting at 
8 p.m. followed by two hours of music from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121.
Please be sure not to touch any 
of the instruments that may be there. Please do not wear heels because they can damage the 
floor. Food and drinks are not 
allowed unless it is bottled wa-ter. Thank you.
Library holding health 
education service
The Alachua County Public Library Headquarters is hold-ing a health education service on June 6 at 401 E. University Ave. The service is free and open to the public and will be offered from 9:30 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. on the top floor. Elevator use is available. There will be a variety of topics with com-plementary pamphlets and take-home materials.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and 
keep them 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
STATE
Florida’s bee colonies on the 
rise thanks to new program
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Florida’s managed bee colo-nies have increased by more 
than 145 percent in the last 
eight years, thanks to a suc-cessful partnership between beekeepers and growers.
The Sunshine State started a 
program two years ago that en-couraged beekeepers and agri-cultural growers to share best practices, including ways to 
use pesticides that would help both industries thrive.The voluntary partnership has 
helped ensure the safety of bee hives near citrus trees. It’s now part of a strategy released by the White House.
State agriculture officials say 
bee colonies play a critical role in helping pollinate Florida’s agricultural commodities and 
stabilizing the nation’s food 
supply.Citrus and honey production and pollination services for many agricultural commodi-
ties are important sectors of 
Florida’s $120 billion agricul-ture industry.
Crowd assault Florida police 
officer making arrest
MELBOURNE, Fla. (AP) — 
Authorities said a hostile crowd assaulted a Florida po-
lice officer while he was trying 
to arrest a combative man.Melbourne Police said the of-ficer was arresting 22-year-old 
Phoenix Low of Melbourne 
early Saturday on a city ordi-nance violation of carrying an open container of alcohol.A police statement said Low 
became combative and at-
tempted to run before the offi-cer wrestled him to the ground.Cmdr. Vince Pryce said a 
crowd gathered and began 
striking and pulling at the of-ficer, who took out his Taser and told “the aggressive ad-vancing crowd” to get back.
Pryce said the officer suffered 
cuts and bruises.Along with the ordinance vio-lation, Low was charged with 
resisting an officer and battery 
on a law enforcement officer. He was released late Sunday from the Brevard County jail.
Miami, Orlando schools ditch 
Styrofoam trays
MIAMI (AP) — The school dis-
tricts in Miami and Orlando are removing Styrofoam trays 
from school lunchrooms and 
replacing them with composta-ble plates made of recycled newsprint.
The Urban School Food 
Alliance made the announce-ment last week. It’s part of an effort to use the purchas-ing power of large districts to 
produce environmentally con-
scious changes.School districts in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dallas also are included in the project. Together, they will re-
move 225 million plastic foam 
trays a year.School districts have relied on the foam trays because they 
cost 4 cents apiece, compared 
to their compostable counter-parts that average about 12 cents each. The compostable plates bought through the al-
liance cost about 5 cents each.
Police: 3 kids hurt when 
waterspout uproots bounce 
house
MIAMI (AP) — A waterspout uprooted an inflatable bounce 
house with three children 
inside it on a South Florida 
beach Monday, but the young-
sters were tossed to the sand 
before it flew above palm trees 
and over four lanes of traffic, 
police said.
All three children were quickly 
thrown to the beach while an-
other nearby bounce house, which was unoccupied, also took flight over the state road, 
authorities said. Both inflata-
bles crashed won in a parking 
lot.The children were injured, but alert and conscious when they 
were taken to a hospital, Fort 
Lauderdale Police spokesman 
Keven Dupree said.A police statement later Monday evening said two of 
the children were treated for 
minor fractures and released 
while a third was in stable condition and held overnight for observation at Broward 
Health Medical Center.
Their identities weren't re-
leased and police said no ve-
hicles or pedestrians were hit by the bounce houses.
Video on local television sta-
tions showed the waterspout 
— a whirling column of air and 
water mist — moving from the ocean onto the sand of Fort 
Lauderdale beach, tossing a 
canopy and rolling one of the 
bounce houses before lifting 
it into the air. The house flew above the tree line, but the chil-
dren fell out when it first flipped 
over the beach, Dupree said.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona , Lindsey Saucier
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Amanda Churchill, Serina Esquivel,
  Bailey Gaul, Miriam Gonzalez,    
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn,    
  T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel LoTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
WEATHER
By Dana Hatchett
Alligator Staff Writer
Amy Mahler is no stranger to to natural 
disasters. 
Two years after Hurricane Katrina dev-
astated New Orleans, she described her ex-
perience while visiting.
“The chaos was still there,” the 20-year-
old UF marine science junior said. “People’s houses had big red X’s on them. A lot of people were still being located in shelters.”
However, Mahler said she would be “ex-
tremely unprepared” if a hurricane were to hit Gainesville.
Luckily for Mahler, the 2015 hurricane 
season — which begins Monday and lasts 
through Nov. 30 — is expected to be a rela-
tively calm one, said UF experts.
Y. Peter Sheng, a UF civil and coastal en-
gineering professor and an expert in coastal 
hazard and coastal ecosystem restoration, 
wrote in an email that there is estimated 
to be only seven named storms, three of 
which will be hurricanes and one of which will be a major storm.
Sheng said the leading factors causing 
the below-average season is a continued El 
Niño, a stream of air around South America 
that results in cooling of below-average sea surface temperatures in the Atlantic Ocean.
“(The weak El Niño) creates an in-
creased wind shear over the Caribbean, thus preventing storm formation,” Sheng said.
The last major hurricane to make land-
fall in Florida was Hurricane Wilma in 2005.
Mike Spranger, a UF professor of fam-
ily, youth and community sciences and an expert in natural disasters preparation, wrote in an email that since Floridians have not been impacted by a major hurricane in many years, they may become complacent when it comes time for hurricane season.
Spranger displayed a classic example of 
a lack of preparation by mentioning Catego-ry 5 Hurricane Andrew that hit South Flor-ida in 1992. The hurricane season of 1992 was calm until Hurricane Andrew formed in the warm waters of the Atlantic Ocean.
Sheng said that southeast Florida has 
the highest risk of hurricane landfall. But the chance of Gainesville being directly hit is low compared to other locations in Flor-ida because Gainesville is not on the coast.
Spranger advised to have at least three 
days’ worth of nonperishable food and a ﬁ  ve-day supply of water. People should also have some readily available cash, since ATM machines may not be working.
“If you do some planning before the 
event,” Spranger said, “there is much better chance to reduce property damage as well as injury or loss of life if we have a major hurricane hit Florida.”Hurricane season should 
be calm, but still prepareHow to prepare
Dr. Corene Matyas, a professor at UF who specializes in severe weather, advises people 
to have copies of important documents, extra medications, plenty of drinking water and nonperishable foods. Flashlights, batteries and a ﬁ  rst-aid kit are also good ideas. A Na-tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather radio can be set to alert you of any watches or warnings and also provide weather forecasts.
Hurricane shelters in Gainesville: 
 T albot Elementary School - 5701 NW 43rd St.
 Williams Elementary School - 1245 SE Seventh Ave.
 Eastside High School - 1201 SE 45th T errace.
 Kanapaha Middle School - 5005 SW 75th St.
 Gainesville Senior Center - 5701 NW 34th St.
When going to the shelter, bring: 
 Sufﬁ  cient nonperishable food for 72 hours
 medicine and baby needs
 games for children
 bedding and a change of clothes for the entire family
 ﬂ  ashlight with extra batteries.
If you are unable to evacuate during a hurricane, go to your wind-safe room. If you do not have one, follow these guidelines:
 Stay indoors during the hurricane and away from windows and glass doors.
 Close all interior doors — secure and brace external doors.
 Keep curtains and blinds closed. Do not be fooled if there is a lull; it could be the eye of the storm — winds will pick up again.
 T ake refuge in a small interior room, closet or hallway on the lowest level.
 Lie on the ﬂ  oor under a table or another sturdy object.
 Avoid elevators.
What to do with your pet during a hurricane: 
 Keep it inside with you unless you must evacuate your home. 
 If you have to evacuate, there are shelters that can care for your pet until the storm 
passes. 
 Have pictures of your pets in case they get lost during a storm. 
 Keep your pets up-to-date on their vaccinations. Many shelters require proof of vac-
cination. 
 Have a pet emergency kit with identiﬁ  cation, immunization records, medication, 
supply of food and water, a muzzle, collar and leash. 4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
weekends, giving Gainesville resi-
dents an opportunity to reflect and see a visual representation of the wars’ impact, the project might have had its last run. The grass strips where the tombstones have been placed are scheduled to be removed.
Camil said the group is still look-
ing to relocate the Memorial Mile to another place, a place that will give the project a similar amount of visi-bility, but they’ve had no luck so far.
•   •   •
Camil, 69, said he came up with 
the idea for the Memorial Mile, which started in 2007, after watching the movie “Arlington West.”
The documentary showed tem-
porary tombstones placed on the beaches in California.
“Public response was overwhelm-
ing,” Camil said. “So I thought, ‘Wow. We can do that here.’”
And after a couple rough years 
early on, Camil said the group has received nothing but support from the Gainesville community.
People walk past the lines of tombstones, somber at the sheer number that is present.
Some cars drive slowly, soaking 
in the moment.
Others honk with support when-
ever they see one of the volunteers.
“The first couple of years, we 
got mostly the finger from people riding by,” Camil said. “Now, we’re 100-percent accepted, like we haven’t had anything negative.”
•   •   •
From a distance, the tombstones 
look the same: white, neat, orga-nized.
But as you get closer, each be-
comes distinct, individual, one-of-a-
kind.
Each tombstone — all 6,728 of 
them — has a name.
Typed in small black font on a 
piece of cloth is the soldier’s name, 
date of death, age, branch of service, rank and hometown.
They are organized chronologi-
cally, spanning west to east along 
Eighth Avenue, and then separated 
by war.
“We want to remind people and 
each other about the cost of war,” said Paul Ortiz, the media coordina-tor for the Gainesville chapter of Vet-erans for Peace and a UF associate 
professor of history. “Equally impor-
tant, we want to commemorate and remember the sacrifices that people 
have made.”
Visitors leave their marks, too.
Some write notes on the bottom. Others left bouquets of flowers at 
headstones.
One wrote to her big brother that 
she misses him and let him know his son knows how much he loves him.
“It gives people kind of a quiet 
time to think,” Ortiz said.
And the group of 75 members 
and volunteers made sure to help Memorial Mile visitors in whatever way they could.
For the nearly 60 hours the Me-
morial Mile stood this weekend — from 6 a.m. Saturday until 5 p.m. Monday — at least six people were present along the strip at all times.
“We all take shifts,” said Greg 
Mullaley, one of the volunteers.
Veterans for Peace had three 
tents posted up, one at each end of the tombstone strip and one in the middle, with at least two chapter members or volunteers present at all times.
While on the clock, the volun-
teers help passersby and visitors to the event in multiple ways, from 
giving basic information to helping 
them find specific tombstones using an index. 
Others were responsible for mak-
ing sure tombstones stay upright, patrolling the 3/4-mile strips for any markings that were knocked over by the wind or passing cars.
“There’s a lot of planning and 
work that goes into this,” Camil said.
•   •   •
At about 4 p.m. Monday, Camil 
and other Gainesville Veterans for Peace members began picking up the tombstones for perhaps the last time.
With the strips of grass on Eighth 
Avenue slated for removal, the Vet-erans for Peace will not be able to continue holding the event there.
The group is still surveying their 
options, searching for a potential 
goldmine where they can host their 
annual event in the future, Camil said.
And so far, despite recommenda-
tions from people in the city govern-ment, county government and local residents, there’s been no luck.
Camil said the new location, 
wherever it may be, needs to fit the 
group’s parameters, which include 
a grass strip that’s a minimum of a half-mile long with a curb on both sides of the street, no driveways and access to parking and bathrooms.
“If we don’t have a place that meets our parameters,” Camil said, “we’re done.”
Right now, it’s looking like the 
Memorial Mile will just be a memory come 2016. 
But Ortiz wants to make sure the 
event’s memory lives on.
He said the oral history program 
at UF is hoping to use images and testimonies from members to create a documentary about the Memorial Mile for Memorial Day weekend next 
year.
“Even if we can’t have the event 
in the future,” Ortiz said, “we can at 
least have a UF-produced documen-tary about it.”MEMORIAL,  from pg1They are still looking for a new site
Wendell Parrish, a production volun-
teer, also noted the festival has become 
smaller over the years. 
He cited space as an issue. The con-
struction of the motel on the more central section of the waterfront rendered the field unusable.
In previous years, the entertainment 
tent occupied the space.
Parrish estimated the festival draws 
people from about 50 miles in any given di-
rection, although locals typically comprise 
a majority of attendees Friday nights.
Parrish, who has volunteered at the fes-
tival for 25 years, said a change of loca-tion was unlikely even as the event literally 
loses ground. 
Visitors wanted to keep it on the river, 
he said.
Some guests seemed undeterred by the 
shuffling of festival features. Alternatives 
to blue crab abounded, from standard car-nival fare to more localized seafood and the Reggae Shack Cafe in Gainesville.  Longtime guests Toni and Ron Asbury 
come yearly for the music. The blue crabs are typically sold out by Saturday, Toni As-bury said.
“I think it’s nicer since they moved it 
down,” she said, after describing how previous shows — such as the ones Ron Asbury once performed for the blue crab festival — were out in the open field. CRABS,  from pg 1It had a roller coaster, a giant slide, a fun house and skee ballJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pictured is a cardboard tombstone, placed along Northwest Eighth 
Avenue, with a note written to James, a fallen member of the U.S. Army, from Cristi, his younger sister. In it, Cristi says she will make sure that James’ son knows how much his father loved him.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pictured is an American flag capping a cardboard tombstone along Northwest Eighth Avenue. A total of 6,728 tombstones lined the street during Memorial Day weekend, one for every fallen American soldier in the wars in Afghanistan since 2001 and Iraq since 2003.
NATIONAL
By The Associated Press
ARLINGTON, Va. — President Barack 
Obama on Monday saluted Americans who 
died in battle, saying the country must “never stop trying to fully repay them” for their sacrifices.
He noted it was the first Memorial Day 
in 14 years without U.S. forces engaged in a major ground war.
Speaking under sunny skies to some 5,000 people in an amphitheater on the hallowed grounds of Arlington National Cemetery, Obama said the graveyard is “more than a final resting place of heroes.”
“It is a reflection of America itself,” he 
said, citing racial and religious diversity in the backgrounds of the men and women who paid the ultimate sacrifice to preserve “the ideals that bind us as one nation.”
His appearance is an annual rite for 
presidents at the cemetery nestled among verdant hills overlooking the Potomac Riv-er. It came months after the end of the U.S. com-bat mission in Afghani-stan, where the number of stationed troops has been reduced to about 10,000 from a peak of more than 100,000.
His tribute also took 
place against a backdrop 
of the increasingly complex U.S.-led ef-fort to help Iraq defeat the Islamic State extremist group, which has been gaining momentum in recent weeks by capturing Ramadi there and taking Palmyra in neigh-boring Syria.
Obama made no mention of America’s 
participation with other nations in the ef-fort to stop the Islamic State. 
His effort there has come under inten-
sifying criticism since the fall of Ramadi 
with lawmakers calling for a bigger show 
of American force there, including ground troops.
Obama pays tribute to fallen service members
Obama
TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
IT HAPPENED APRIL 11.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
The Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce suspended one of its 
sergeants for one day and repri-
manded one of its deputies fol-
lowing an internal investigation of their use of an armored vehicle to perform a trafﬁ  c stop in April.
On April 11, a sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce 
SWAT team pulled over 24-year-old Lucas Jewell on West Univer-sity Avenue in a Lenco Bearcat Armored Personnel Carrier, 
which is an armored and bul-
letproof vehicle used by military and law enforcement agencies, after he ﬂ  ipped them off, accord-ing to an ASO report released Fri-day. The ofﬁ  cers who pulled him over also believed he was receiv-
ing oral sex at the time from a 
female passenger who police said did not have a seatbelt on at the time.
Sgt. Kevin Davis was suspend-
ed for one day without pay, while deputy sheriff Richard Howell was given a written reprimand, according to the report. 
However, the punishment was 
for the misuse of a state trafﬁ  c law that allows drivers to use hand signals instead of a vehi-
cle’s blinkers or brake lights, not 
the use of the armored vehicle.
The report found Jewell’s use 
of the middle ﬁ  nger was consid-ered a sign of protected speech, 
not an illegal hand signal.The report also states that 
while the trafﬁ  c stop was reason-
able because ofﬁ  cers suspected a 
crime was occurring, the use of 
the armored vehicle was in poor judgment even though it is not a violation of ASO policy.
“Sgt. K Davis is held account-
able and responsible for the man-agement of this incident overall,” the report stated. “He demon-strated inadequate supervision of 
the incident and lack of knowl-
edge of ordinances, statutes and ACSO directives.”
In addition to the one-day sus-
pension, Davis was also ordered to write a draft updating the poli-cy regarding when specialty vehi-cles, such as the Bearcat, should be used for a trafﬁ  c stop, accord-
ing to the report.Oﬃ   cers punished after traﬃ   c stopBy Brooke Perry
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gator football fans are getting 
the chance to make a change in The 
Swamp.
The UF Athletic Association is ac-
cepting applications until June 8 for the Gators Fan Advisory Council, a board of 13 football season-ticket 
holders who will meet quarterly to 
discuss ways to enhance the overall 
game-day experience.
The UAA formed the council last 
year as a means to get input from fans on what can be improved upon or made different during home foot-
ball games. 
“Our main focus was discuss-
ing ideas for next year,” said Jenn 
Mereby, UAA guest services coordi-nator. “(We talked about) things that 
would have an immediate impact by 
next football season, if not within the next few games.”
Mereby said topics examined at 
the meetings ranged from music se-lection to pyrotechnics.
The meetings had an agenda, and 
members contributed in a type of roundtable discussion.
As of August 2015, members of 
the council will serve for two athletic years.
Alicia Zurita, a UF advertising ju-
nior, was one of two students who served on the council in its ﬁ  rst year.
“It was really cool seeing what goes into Gator football,” Zurita, 19, said. “I got to see a little glimpse of behind-the-scenes. Now I know why some things can happen and others 
can’t.”
Zurita said the council serves as 
a good platform for those who really 
understand the Gator fan experience and want to make a difference, but it 
could be improved.
“I think more student representa-
tives might make it better,” she said. 
“It really has a lot of potential to do 
good things.”
Joe Chiafair, a 21-year-old UF 
accounting junior, is hoping to be 
chosen as a council member in the upcoming year.
“It’s important for the fans to be 
heard because they’re the reason for everything,” he said. “If there’s no fans, then there’s nothing.” UAA fan advisory 
council open for 
student applications
Katrina Alvarez / Alligator 
Get down and give me 200
From left: Hunter Wyatt, 24, Samantha Mauder, 22, and Chloe Herring, 23, work out at the Memorial 
Day Murph event put on by Body by Boris on Monday. The event beneﬁ  tted the Jonathan Cote Memo-rial Scholarship, which helps veterans attending UF and Santa Fe College pay for books and tuition. 
“I think more student 
representatives might make 
it better. It really has a lot of 
potential to do good things.”
Alicia Zurita
advisory council member
WHO CAN APPLY?
 Applicants must be at least 21 years old with the excep-tion of UF undergraduate students, who must have completed their freshman undergraduate term by May 2014.
 Applicants must have been 
student season-ticket hold-ers for the 2013 football sea-son and entered the lottery for the 2014 season.
Applications are online at 
gatorzone.com/fancouncil. 
Source: Gatorzone.comThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialColumn
Minorities not meant to be the butt of the joke
Many comedies thrive off pushing 
the boundaries into offensive con-tent to get attention. “Pitch Perfect 
2,” the sequel to the original “Pitch 
Perfect,” tells the story of an all-
female a cappella group, marketing itself as a boundary-pushing, feminist movie. However, 
it still relies on unnecessary and out-of-place 
stereotypical jokes. The one Guatemalan char-acter, Flo, functions as a first-world-problems joke in order to put the girls’ problems into perspective. She doesn’t really have her own story. Even though this 
may seem like a harmless joke at first, when we don’t 
know anything else about this character, and she serves no other function in the movie, she becomes a token minority.
In contrast, Fat Amy has her own storyline and makes 
jokes about her size. Her character often pokes fun at the lack of body diversity among The Bellas. Despite being the only fat character, she still gets her own story and romantic interests. Her size is a physical trait, but 
it is definitely not the most interesting thing about her.  
John and Gail’s commentary is the best example of 
how to break down oppressive jokes, with the punch 
line often being John’s sexism, not the ladies them-
selves. 
A joke is funny when it is creative or different, not 
when it makes fun of the oppressed. But even amid the 
awesome deconstruction of sexism that goes on in John and Gail’s commentary, “Pitch Perfect 2” still felt the 
need to rely on played-out stereotypical jokes.
In the past 10 years or so, female-empowering com-
edy has not progressed much. “Mean Girls” quickly be-
came a cult favorite after it was released. It’s easy to 
forget, however, that not all of its jokes were so empow-
ering to everyone, with Cady, the lead character played by Lindsay Lohan, often being made fun of for not understanding the cultural norms of an American high school. As we find out 
throughout the course of the movie, her learn-
ing about how to be popular turns out to be a bad thing, but until she finds that out, her upbringing is used for jokes.
Despite its best attempts at diversity, 
“Pitch Perfect 2” resorted to tokenism. Identi-ties were used as a punch line. Until there is 
better representation in casting, movies will not be able to get away with these kinds of jokes.
Comedy needs to be mindful of its impact, because 
it does not exist in a vacuum. Comedy has the potential to be offensive, but this should be used to turn it on the oppressor, not to further perpetuate stereotypes. 
Despite attempting to be more diverse, content cre-
ators often mistake a minority character’s presence as enough of an effort toward diversity. However, their role matters. 
Minority characters have to be more fleshed out and 
not just exploited for a punch line.  
Although many will argue that comedy should be im-
mune from criticism, movies and TV shows have to be accountable for their content, no matter the genre. Just 
because a movie is criticized does not mean people are 
not allowed to like it.
 On the contrary, the content that is most beloved 
must be criticized in order to spur change. A movie be-ing progressive in one area does not excuse its other 
problems. 
There has to be more of an effort toward representa-
tive casting. Bringing in token minority characters for a 
punch line is not enough.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.Memorial Day: A time for 
remembrance, thanks
The Alligator often represents the voice of millenni-als and young college-aged men and women, and sometimes it’s said that our generation forgets the 
sacrifices of those before us in the name of youthful 
narcissism and detachment from world affairs.
Perish the thought.You may have noticed that today’s paper is full of Me-
morial Day articles and highlights the diverse ways the lo-cal community is honoring its servicemen and women. Our generation was born and raised in one of the longest-run-ning armed conflicts in American history, and it’s been an ever-present part of our generation’s daily news cycle since 
the turn of the millennium.
We’ve been reminded of the brave men and women who 
defend our lives and homes like clockwork with every con-
flict and every international tension raised by the war on 
terror and organizations like the Taliban. Since we were 
young, the world we’ve known has always been a world at war. Perhaps our conflicts have not been as involved or dramatic as World War II and maybe not as polarizing as the Vietnam War, but we’ve been raised with war at the 
forefront of our world.
But this year’s Memorial Day is different. On Monday, 
President Barack Obama laid a wreath before the Tomb of the Unknowns and delivered a speech before a crowd of 
5,000. It was a gesture reminding us once again of the men and women who gave their lives to defend ours. But this year, for the first time in nearly 14 years, American forces are not engaged in a major ground war against any force, and while new conflicts may be on the horizon with inter-
national tensions raised by the Islamic State group, this is 
still the first time in more than a decade that our generation has known a Memorial Day without a conflict to accompany our remembrances.
For a generation that has been raised in a period of near-
ly perpetual conflict, this respite is something most people may forget in light of rising tensions and news of drone strikes continuing throughout the Middle East, but it’s an achievement that shouldn’t go unacknowledged.
Its important that we’re not merely offering the usual 
platitudes this year, but also acknowledging that we’ve got a glimpse, however brief, of what our veterans and soldiers have been fighting for. 
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
“Our generation was born and 
raised in one of the longest-
running armed conflicts in 
American history, and it’s 
been an ever-present part of 
our generation’s daily news 
cycle since the turn of the 
millennium.”Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Memorial Day grill out
Lan Nguyen, a 22-year-old UF animal sciences senior, plays with Ziggy, a 5-year-old Dachshund mix, at 
a barbecue put on by Fracture, a glass printing company on 112 SW Sixth St., Monday afternoon.
May 26, 1988: 22-year-old Woody Hay received his third heart transplant in three years, becoming the first patient at Shands to receive both a second and third heart transplant. Hay was a former scholarship football player at Bethune-Cookman University, but pneumonia ended his career and the effectiveness of his original heart. Doctors replaced it in 1985, but his body rejected the new organ within nine months, and he received a second heart in August 1986, which was also rejected. 
May 25, 1999: Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is suspended for a year following hazing and alcohol viola-
tions which endangered the lives of pledges. Notably, several members encouraged excessive under-age drinking, including one example of a pledge who nearly died after drinking a liter of rum in about 25 minutes. Additionally, there was one recorded case of pledges being stripped down to jockstraps and placed in the middle of the room whereupon they were plied with ice water, sand and garbage. Those same pledges were also blindfolded, offered vomit-inducing food and forced to perform kin-esthetic exercises to exhaustion.
May 29, 2001: The Board of Regents bid their posts farewell as the Florida education system takes 
on a new governance system to control public schooling from kindergarten through graduate school. 
Notably, only one of the regents had anything cynical to say about the shift of leadership for educa-tional management. The new system was designed by Jeb Bush and was first presented during an evening dinner upon a napkin.
May 31, 2001: Following 17 years and a 460-43 record, women’s tennis coach Andy Brandi an-
nounced his plans for resignation in order to become director of coaching for IMG Academies, a multi-sport network of training facilities. Jeremy Foley, UF athletics director, noted that he was un-surprised by the resignation, as Brandi had spoken highly of IMG for years.By Jennifer Eason
Alligator Contributing Writer
Juan Gilbert, one of the first 
hires under UF’s Preeminence 
Plan, has been appointed to 
chair of the department of com-
puter and information science and engineering in the UF Col-lege of Engineering.
The Preeminence Plan is an 
$800 million fundraising initia-tive to help UF become a top-10 
public research university, ac-
cording to a press release.
Gilbert, 46, was first hired 
by UF as associate chair of re-search in the department in 
July 2014.
He brought with him a team 
of 21 faculty, doctoral and post-
doctoral students from Clemson 
University to continue their 
work in the field of human-centered computing, according to the UF Preeminence website.
Human-Centered Computing 
(HCC) is a field that focuses on creating computer technologies that relate to the human condi-
tion, according to the Clemson 
University website. 
“His experience in the field 
of human-centered computing 
will be invaluable as the uni-
versity continues to seek solu-tions in that area,” said Donna Winchester, a spokeswoman for UF.
A few years ago, Gilbert cre-
ated an electronic voting sys-tem called Prime III that allows people with disabilities to cast 
their votes in the same system 
as everyone else. 
He gave it away for free, ac-
cording to a press release.
Gilbert said he started his 
undergraduate schooling as a chemistry major but switched to computer science to avoid going to graduate school after a senior told him it was required. 
“I said, ‘I don’t want to go to 
graduate school,’” Gilbert said. 
“‘I don’t even know what that 
is. I thought I went to college to get a job.’”
He ended up enjoying com-
puter science and stuck with it.
He has a bachelor’s degree 
in systems analysis from Miami University of Ohio and a mas-ter’s and doctorate degree in computer science from the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati.
Gilbert is an Andrew Banks 
Family Preeminence Endowed 
Chair, a position funded by a $5 million endowment given 
by Andrew and Pamela Banks 
to hire faculty that will help UF become a top-10 public re-search university.
Gilbert said his main goal for 
the department is increasing its research profile. 
He wants the state and na-
tion to see UF as a resource to 
consult with issues in technol-
ogy.
But when Gilbert has more 
time, he said he wants to get 
back to fishing. 
“I haven’t had the chance 
to do that (in Gainesville) yet,” 
he said. “My boys are afraid to go because of the gators. I’m 
like, ‘Yes let’s go fishing,’ and 
they’re like, ‘Dad. No. There are gators in there.’”UF Engineering 
college appoints new CISE chair
Gainesville Throwbacks
— LAWRENCE CHANCAMPUS
“His experience in the 
field of human-centered 
computing will be invaluable 
as the university continues 
to seek solutions in that 
area."
Donna Winchester
UF spokeswomanTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
New cancer-prevention online program
Linda Bobroff, a nutrition professor and 
extension nutrition specialist, developed the 
Take Control to Reduce Your Cancer Risk extension program with the help of two staff members.
The extension program began because Bo-
broff found out there was funding available from the Florida Department of Health that needed to be spent before the end of the ﬁ  s-cal year. The program is a redo of a 15-lesson curriculum Bobroff had developed years ago called Take Control to Reduce Your Cancer Risk learn-by-mail program.
In order to make it different from what people might ﬁ  nd by making a simple Google search, Bobroff developed the nine-module extension program to be more of a hands-on program where users complete activities re-lated to the material and set goals.
Reading material, educational videos and 
non-graded self-tests are included. There is a $20 fee to enroll and there are no due dates for completing the material.  Users will have access to the program for six months, and it is available to anyone 18 and older.
— Lisandranette Rios
UF researchers to study oxytocin effects
A pair of grants totaling $3.75 million has 
been awarded to a pair of UF College of Phar-
macy researchers to study oxytocin’s role in regulating the body’s response to stress and anxiety.
Charles Jason Frazier received a ﬁ  ve-year, 
$1.875 million grant from the National Insti-
tute of Mental Health to study how oxytocin 
inﬂ  uences the brain structures that affect mood and social behavior. Eric Krause se-cured a ﬁ  ve-year, $1.875 million grant from the National Institutes of Health’s National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. 
He will study how slightly elevated so-
dium levels cause changes that reduce the impact of psychological stress. Frazier is an 
associate professor and Krause is an assistant professor in the UF College of Pharmacy’s de-
partment of pharmacodynamics.
During his postdoctoral studies, Krause 
noticed animals with some salt intake and thirst appeared less stressed and more social, 
sparking his belief that sodium activated the 
neurons that produce oxytocin. From this, Frazier discovered oxytocin inhibits the brain from releasing a neurotransmitter that causes anxiety and depression in animals, validating Krause’s idea that small amounts of sodium can decrease anxiety levels.
Krause will conduct research on mice to 
examine how speciﬁ  c oxytocin receptors re-
duce anxious behavior and the cardiovascu-lar system’s stress response by inhibiting a 
speciﬁ  c neurotransmitter.
— Melissa Brown
Ebola not able to spread through air, per 
UF professor
The Ebola outbreak in West Africa last 
year is known as the deadliest to date. From 
this came the fear that a mutation could allow the disease to spread through the air.
Marco Salemi, an associate professor at 
UF, and his research team analyzed the ge-nomic sequences of Ebola that have been obtained from 1976 through 2014. They used this data to determine the chances of a mu-tation occurring that would cause the Ebola virus to change its mode of transmis-sion.        
They discovered that such muta-
tions were unlikely to have occurred in the past and were therefore un-likely to occur during the present outbreak, despite the increased rate of mutations, said Taj Azarian, the lead author of the study.
These ﬁ  ndings have dispelled 
the fear of Ebola being a virus that 
can suddenly mutate to a point 
that it can become transmissible through the air.
— Melissa Brown
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    5-28-15-28-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-26-15-36-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-26-15-36-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1680/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-28-15-37-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1490. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
6-18-15-20-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
HALF BLOCK TO UF
$525 rent, August 1st. Four 3BR apts, quad, 
1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 condition, extras paid 
for, free parking, compare. 352-514-5060    
6-4-15-9-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, 
Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   6-4-15-8-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of your friends but don't be responsible for their rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!      $700/mo. 352-505-5049www.crosskeysproperties.com    6-4-15-4-2Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors, W/D
$650-$775 352-505-5049     6-4-15-4-2
3 Bedroom, 2 bath home for rent. 7 blocks 
north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Available August 1. 407-496-5394    6-4-4-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
2 Female Roommates to share 3BR/2BA condo asap, 5 mins from UF, Fitted Kitchen, Laundry, TV/Internet, Utilities incl, $550 per month.Call 208-589 6261    5-26-15-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
For Sale 3 BR 2 Bath. 7 blocks north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Contact Graham, 352-215-9900    6-4-4-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 2For Rent
unfurnished4 RoommatesTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
TWO M150 SCOOTERS
Adult owned, garage kept, like new, each 
with less than 500 miles. $1000 Each or best 
offer. Both in Gainesville. Call 706-639-3133    
6-4-15-4-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
2014 Jeep Compass for sale. 6600 mile-age, only one owner, great conditions, for $19,000. PRICE IS NEGOTIABLE   Call 832-851-7561     5-28-15-6-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
5-14-14-25-13 
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2016
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales 
staff in outside newspaper advertising 
sales. Motivator needed who works well 
with a constantly changing staff. Duties 
include training university students in 
outside newspaper sales, layout and copy 
writing. Must work well within and meet 
daily deadlines. Good organizational skills 
a must. Newspaper ad sales background 
an advantage. Modest salary, good benefits 
and excellent working environment. With 
resume, send cover letter that must include 
salary requirements, to: General Manager, 
The Independent Florida Alligator, P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, FL 32604 or email to 
tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the 
directions.              5-28-15-6-14MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy 
Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
Fan Head is seeking a Campus Czar this summer/fall to promote its fun, innovative Gator wearable. Gain retail partners, work with campus groups and coordinate game-day sales. Great incentive compensation. Contact us at customerservice@myfanhead.com.    5-26-15-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
6-2-15-14-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience pre-ferred. Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.
com      5-28-15-5-14
FREE Private Efficiency+$500 month + 
health insurance. Couple in late 40's needs 
gestational surrogate (our own egg)Prefer age 20-38 Healthy +had at least one baby.Open to offers. TEXT ONLY - 305 582 9800   7-9-15-14-14
BABYSITTER WANTED,
$12/hr - kids age 6 to 12. Experience re-
quired, emails resume and references to 
rosenson@ufl.edu    5-28-15-3-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, with
good customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
BEST BUY
Job Fair 5/28 9am-2pm
Competitive pay, flexible hours
Apply online and send resume to
Tatum.Rhoads@bestbuy.com
5-28-15-2-14
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Designated drivers are the greatest
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
10%
oﬀ10% oﬀ
10%
oﬀ
Get 4 Years of 
Save up to
Save up toSave up to
10% oﬀ
Get 4 Years of 
Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
August 17th
Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
advertising@alligator.org(352) 376-4482
Studen/t.fina
New
EditionStuden/t.finaNew
Edition
Deadlin/e_s.fina:Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina: June 12th
(save 10%)
July 10th
(save 7%)
July 31st
(save 5%)Contact your 
sales rep today and let incoming students know you’re ready for business in the
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND. Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
25 Lost & Found 19 Connections 16 Health Services 23 RidesTUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
"W e definitely smelled blood in 
the water there towards the end."
Peter Alonso
UF first baseman Follow us for updates
Follow alligatorSports on Twitter@alligatorsportsBy Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
The Southeastern Confer-
ence title game was over, but the 
players still stood on the field in 
Hoover, Alabama, clad in white 
SEC champion T-shirts. 
Queen’s “We are the Champi-
ons” played on the loudspeakers 
as players and coaches, one-by-
one, spoke about the victory.
“It’s just a surreal moment,” JJ 
Schwarz said.
“Oh man,” Peter Alonso said. 
“It feels really good.”
Now, Florida will start pre-
paring for the NCAA Regionals, where it will host Florida A&M, 
South Florida and Florida Atlantic 
this weekend as the No. 4 national seed.
“You know, I put so much hard 
work and effort into this craft of 
baseball,” an emotional Buddy 
Reed said after Florida’s 7-3 win over Vanderbilt. “It’s a blessing.”
After dropping the tournament 
opener, the Gators won four con-secutive games to win the SEC 
Tournament and justify their stake 
as a national seed. 
The celebration continued that 
night and likely into the bus ride 
home on Monday morning.
“The way we pulled it out to-
day, even through the rain delay, it 
was great,” Reed said of the game, which lasted nearly six hours from start to finish following two rain delays. “It shows we got a lot of 
fight in our club.”
The scene in Hoover was quite 
different from last year, when 
Florida lost to LSU in the SEC 
Championship.In 2014, UF didn’t have the 
trio of freshman that it does now, including tournament MVP 
Schwarz, who finished with 10 hits and six RBIs while accounting for five of UF’s 36 runs during the 
tournament.“This is awesome. It’s such an 
honor to win this thing,” Schwarz 
said. 
“You know, to be able to play 
this well with all these great teams in this tournament ... It’s really big going into regionals. We needed 
this win.”
Florida will have home field 
advantage throughout its Region-al and Super Regional bracket, 
should the Gators advance.
The winner of the Gainesville 
Regional will face the winner of the Tallahassee Regional in a Su-per Regional next weekend. The eight Super Regional winners ad-
vance to the College World Series.
The road to Omaha, Nebraska, 
will likely go through at least one 
of those three teams.
“We’re going right back to the 
grind,” Reed said. “Baseball is constant, it’s all about repetition. And that’s what we’re gonna do.”
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan will en-
ter his eighth-straight NCAA tour-nament in as many years and will look to advance to the Super Re-gionals and College World series for the first time since 2012.
“I feel good,” O’Sullivan said 
after Sunday’s win. “I think we’re swinging the bats well, we’re play-ing great defense and we got all of 
our pitching in.”
And while they did celebrate, 
Florida’s players, especially those 
who experienced an early exit in last year’s Regional round, are far 
from satisfied.
“The end goal is obviously 
Omaha,” junior Danny Young 
said. 
“The key to getting to Omaha is 
getting hot at the right time, and I think if you’ve watched us play throughout the past couple weeks, and especially this tournament, 
we’re all getting hot and I think 
we’re gonna make a deep run.” 
A GatorZone video contributed 
to this report.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz swings during Florida's 4-1 loss to Auburn on May 14 at McKethan Stadium. Schwarz went 
2-for-5 with one RBI in Florida's 7-3 victory over Vanderbilt to win the SEC T ournament on Sunday. 
Florida named No. 4 national seed in NCAA Tournament
SOFTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
The Florida softball team is headed back 
to Oklahoma City for the Women’s College 
World Series.
The Gators clinched their berth back 
to the WCWS after beating the Kentucky 
Wildcats during the Gainesville Super Re-
gional over the weekend.
Lauren Haeger took center stage as 
she pitched two complete game shutouts against the Wildcats to improve to 28-1 on the season. 
On Saturday, Haeger allowed just two 
hits while striking out six in seven innings.
UF scored four runs in the first inning 
off of Kentucky pitcher Kelsey Nunley, who eventually settled down and not allow another run in the game in five innings.
Haeger added her 16th home run of the 
season in the bottom of the sixth and Kirsti Merritt hit another home run two batters later as the Gators cruised to a 7-0 win on Saturday.   
But the second game of the series would 
be much closer. 
It was more of a pitcher’s duel as Hae-
ger and Nunley faced off for the second 
consecutive day and the fourth time on the 
season. 
Both pitchers tossed complete games 
with the game remaining scoreless until the top of the fourth inning.
With Taylore Fuller on third base, Jus-
tine McLean chopped a ball to Kentucky shortstop Christian Stokes who bobbled the ball and had no chance of throwing out Fuller at home or McLean at first.
It ended up being the only run of the 
game and the Gators went on to win 1-0, 
riding Haeger as she im-proved to 4-0 against Ken-tucky on the season. 
Haeger dominated the 
Wildcats in the four times she faced them, allowing just nine hits and zero 
runs over four games.
During the Super Re-
gionals, Kentucky had 
five hits with three of them coming on 
Sunday. The three hits were the most the Wildcats had in a game against Haeger during the season and all of them came within the first three innings of the game.With her performance during the week-
end in the circle and in the batter’s box, 
coach Tim Walton thinks Haeger solidified 
her status as the 2015 USA Softball Colle-giate Player of the Year. 
The Peoria, Arizona, native is one of 
three finalists for the award, which will be announced today by the Amateur Softball Association of America.  
Florida opens the WCWS on Thursday 
at noon on ESPN against the Tennessee 
Volunteers.
The two teams didn’t meet during the 
regular season, but the Volunteers beat the 
Gators in the semifinals of the Southeast-ern Conference Tournament 2-1 on May 8 — the only loss Haeger has on her record this season. Gators clinch return trip to Women's College World Series
Haeger
UF hosts FAMU on Friday at 7 p.m.
Gators named to All-T ournament T eam
Following Florida's 7-3 win over Vanderbilt on Sunday, five Gators were 
named to the Southeastern Conference All-T ournament team: Peter Alonso (1B), T aylor Lewis (RP), A.J. Puk (SP), Buddy Reed (OF), and JJ Schwarz (C/DH).TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
TRACK AND FIELD
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
With Florida’s men’s track and 
ﬁ  eld claiming the Southeastern 
Conference Outdoor Champion-
ships on May 16, the Gators are 
hoping for similar success at the NCAA Outdoor East Preliminar-ies. 
Coach Mike Holloway will 
travel with 36 Gators to the NCAA East Preliminary round in Jack-sonville that begins on Thursday. 
The meet will feature the top 
48 athletes in each of the two re-gions in each individual event, and the top 24 relay teams in the region in each relay event. 
The best 12 performers for both 
the individual and team events in each region will qualify for the NCAA Outdoor National Champi-onships in Eugene, Oregon, which 
are being held on June 10-13.
The East Preliminaries also 
marks the beginning of a journey 
that the men’s team hopes will 
end in its third outdoor national 
title in four years. 
Florida went back-to-back in 2012 and 2013 before ﬁ  nishing runner-up to host Oregon in last 
season’s national meet.
The Gator men come into the 
ﬁ  rst round of the NCAAs with the 
ﬁ  fth-most entries in the country. 
Holloway’s men’s squad is 
also tied for second in the overall ﬁ  eld in sprinter and hurdler en-tries with 10.
The 36 Florida athletes — 19 
men and 17 women — are high-lighted by the senior duo of jump-er Marquis Dendy and sprinter Dedric Dukes on the men’s side, 
while the women’s squad is led 
by senior jumper Ciarra Brewer and junior sprinter Kyra Jefferson.
Dendy holds the national lead 
in both the long jump and triple 
jump events, while Dukes and 
Jefferson lead the NCAA in the men’s and women’s 200-meter sprint, respectively.
The Gators will also feature re-
lay teams in both the men’s and women’s 4x400 and 4x100 races. 
Florida was able to secure SEC 
titles in both of the 4x4 events 
at the SEC Outdoor Champion-
ship — becoming NCAA leaders in their respective events in the process.
One of the more signiﬁ  cant 
events of the weekend will be the men’s long jump.
Dendy and freshman KeAndre 
Bates come into the event with 
the two top times in the region, 
making Florida one of the favor-ites to send multiple athletes in the event to Eugene.
The women’s triple jump will 
feature Brewer, who is second in the country in the event, along-side freshman Darrielle McQueen and senior Gissell Warner — both 
ranked in the nation’s top-30.
Brewer goes into the meet with 
an impressive record in outdoor 
triple jumps, ﬁ  nishing outside the top-ﬁ  ve in an event just once in 
her career — her ﬁ  rst college out-
door event at 2012 Clyde Little-ﬁ  eld Texas Relays.
The Gators will kickoff the 
weekend at noon on Thursday when senior thrower Kyle Strawn competes in the men’s hammer preliminaries, while throwers Fawn Miller and Kike Oniwinde 
will represent Florida in the jav-
elin for the women’s side. UF sends 36 athletes to NCAA Outdoor East Preliminaries
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
The UF men’s golf team will play in the 
NCAA Men’s Golf Championship on Fri-
day, and the team is eager to bounce back from adversity.
Before the regional competition, ﬁ  rst-
year coach JC Deacon gave each team member a bouncy ball and it has become a symbol of resiliency for the program.
“Always keeping a positive attitude no 
matter what happens,” senior J.D. Tom-linson said. “If things come your way that you aren’t expecting, don’t look at it in a negative way, look at it in a positive way. Turn it into a positive. Bounce back from 
it.
“He gave us a bouncy ball before re-
gionals and he said ‘Be a bouncy ball. If 
something happens, bounce back’ and I kept it in my bag the whole week.”
The Gators needed the bounce-back 
mentality to keep their season alive. 
During Round 2 of the Chapel Hill Re-
gional, only senior Eric Banks improved 
on his ﬁ  rst round score and the Gators fell 
from second to fourth.
With only the top-ﬁ  ve teams moving on 
from the regional ﬁ  eld, the team’s season was on the line. On the ﬁ  nal day of the tournament, the Gators posted the second-lowest team score to lock up their spot in 
the National Championship.
“I would say we are 
one of the most resilient 
teams out there,” Dea-con said. “All these guys, 
they just keep ﬁ  ghting. …I know these guys can handle adversity now, and we’re going to face 
it next weekend. It’s nice 
as a coach to know these 
guys aren’t going to quit even if things aren’t going well.”
The Gators are one of 15 teams that qualiﬁ  ed for the ﬁ  nal tournament of the season.
Florida did not qualify for the Regional 
or National tournaments last year.
“I took it for granted after those ﬁ  rst two 
years,” Tomlinson said. “It was my ﬁ  rst two years in college, and it seemed like we breezed through. We got second both years at regionals by like one shot and I’m thinking ‘We’re going to breeze through every year. I’m going to play in the nation-
al championship every year.’ and then we 
don’t even make regionals. So I went with Buddy (Alexander) individually, I mean it was fun to do that, but it wasn’t the same. It’s not even close.”
UF men’s golf bouncing back, ready for NCAA ChampionshipJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ciarra Brewer competes in the triple jump during the Florida Relays 
on April 4 at the Percy Beard Track. 
Deacon
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
1
1312111098765432
352-376-4482
Contact 
your rep  
today!
$50
Per insertion with 4 or  
more insertion commitment
   
 
 
 
 


 
   
 
    

   
  

 
 
 
   
 
3 DAYS - 500 MILES FROM $435
7 DAYS - 500 MILES FROM $735
no age requirementSTANDARD RV
(25 FT - SLEEPS UP TO 5)
LARGE RV
(30 FT - SLEEPS UP TO 7)
call (352) 372-01381
1312111098765432
Proudly serving Gator students 
for 4 Generations!
Mon - Fri 7:30 am - 5:00 pm
Saturday 7:30 am - 2:00 pmSTUDENT DISCOUNT
$20 off your first visit
(352)372-0138
www.ChuckBushAutoRepair.com
tobacco pipe/hookah/
tobacco accessories
fine cigars & cigarettes
import/local beverages
5% discount
with this coupon
101 SE 2nd Pl #106
352 - 374 - 7007
1
2
Renaissance Jewelers
GAINESVILLE’S
OLDEST 
LOCALLY
OWNED 
FULL SERVICE 
JEWELRY STORE
3435 W University Ave
(352) 335-71883435 W University Ave
(352) 335-7188
1
1312111098765432
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and final printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval confirms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGES
sandscleaners.com$2 off a suit cleaning
503 SW 3rd St 352-372-4184
Close to campus
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Florida’s postseason run came to 
an end on Sunday afternoon, as the 
three Gators representing the team at the NCAA Singles and Doubles Cham-pionships at the Hurd Tennis Center of 
Baylor University in Waco, Texas, fell 
just short of reaching the ﬁ  nals.  
In Singles play, No. 13-ranked 
freshman Josie Kuhlman dropped a three-set thriller to the No. 2-ranked Singles player in the country, Stan-ford’s Carol Zhao, in the semiﬁ  nals.
Kuhlman came out ﬁ  red up, taking 
the ﬁ  rst set, 6-2. 
But Zhao quickly regained her com-
posure and battled to tie things up with a 6-4 victory in the second set.
With the momentum on her side, 
Zhao eased to a third set victory, 6-0, eliminating Kuhlman.
The No. 6-ranked doubles duo of 
Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan fell to the No. 5-ranked pair of Klara Fabikova and Zsoﬁ   Susanyi from Cali-fornia in the NCAA Doubles Champi-onships semiﬁ  nals. 
Like Kuhlman, Austin and Keegan 
came out hot and took the ﬁ  rst set, 6-3.
But the Cal twosome recovered to 
win the second and third sets, 6-4, 6-4, to move into the ﬁ  nals.
All three Gators will have earned 
ITA All-American status in the ﬁ  nal poll of the season due to deep post-season runs combined with a top-20 
ITA singles ranking for Kuhlman and a 
top-10 doubles ranking for the doubles duo of Austin and Keegan. UF exits NCAA Singles and Doubles 
Championships in semiﬁ  nal rounds
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brooke Austin, along with teammate Kourtney Keegan 
(not pictured) advanced to the Final Four in the NCAA Individual Doubles competition in Waco, T exas, before being eliminated. 
Florida Gators Postseason Finishes:
SINGLES
 No. 3 Brooke Austin – Lost in ﬁ  rst round to No. 47 Jennifer Brady, UCLA, 7-6 (3), 6-3
 No. 56 Kourtney Keegan – Lost in ﬁ  rst round to lost to No. 20 Carolina Price, UNC, 6-1, 6-3
 No. 13 Josie Kuhlman – Lost in semiﬁ  nals to No. 2 Carol Zhao, 2-6, 6-4, 6-0
 No. 28 Brianna Morgan - Lost in ﬁ  rst round to No. 57 Madison Westby, USC, 6-0, 3-6, 6-4
 No. 58 Belinda Woolcock – Lost in Round of 32 to No. 24 Sabrina Santamaria, USC, 6-3, 6-3
DOUBLES
 No. 6 Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan – Lost in semiﬁ  nals to No. 5 Klara Fabikova and Zsoﬁ   Susanyi, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4