We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 26 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
Brandon Powell praised for block 
on game-winning touchdown
He paved the way for Antonio Callaway 
to score, pg. 13
Research Roundup
Science of writing, 3-D printer and consumer report, pg. 3
8-year-old author donates her comic books to 
church
She’s working on a second part, pg. 5Election coverage on social media
For Student Government election updates to-
day and Wednesday, follow us on Twitter @TheAlligator
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
MINDFUL MOMENT
T emple of the Universe founder Michael “Mickey” Singer expresses the importance of mindfulness, a practice of living in 
the present, as a way of life at UF’s Library East on Monday. Singer was the keynote speaker at UF Mindfulness Day, an all-day event that included guided meditations and presentations about mindfulness. “If you’re missing the experiences of your life, you are not living, ” Singer said.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
After two weeks of heavy cam-
paigning from Access Party and 
Impact Party, the Fall 2015 Student Government elections start today.
For Fall elections, 50 students will 
be voted into the UF Student Sen-ate based on residency seats by ZIP code. District A is 32601, 32609 and 32641; District B is 32603, 32605, 32606 and 32653; District C is 32607; 
District D is 32608; and District E is 
all other ZIP codes not listed.
Eleven polling locations will be 
open today from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Students must bring either their Gator 1 Card or a government issued photo ID and UFID number.Impact campaign manager Blake 
Murphy said he’s excited about elec-tions.
“I believe the momentum is on 
our side,” he said.
He said he expects to see a large 
voter turnout. He said Impact will continue to campaign on Turlington Plaza, on the Plaza of the Americas and at the Reitz Union.Access Party President Kalyani 
Hawaldar said she expects Access to do well in the elections and is hop-
ing to see a large amount of students 
come out to vote like with Spring elections.
“I think it’s been difﬁ  cult for us 
to predict numbers because this election’s been unprecedented,” she said.She said Access will be mobiliz-
ing voters on Turlington Plaza today and Wednesday.
It’s important for students to 
vote, Hawaldar said, “regardless of whether students are voting for our party or another.”
For a more in-depth look at the 
Fall 2015 elections, see pages 8 and 9.
Student Government Fall elections start today
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
At Saturday’s UF vs. University of Tennessee 
football game, Gators cheered “It’s great to be a Florida Gator,” but the band didn’t initiate the penalty chant, “Move back, you suck.”
University Athletic Association assistant 
communications director Daniel Apple wrote in an email that the “You Can’t Do That” song was banned to promote respect toward visiting teams.
When Julie Popp left the game, she said she 
wondered why the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band didn’t play the music that accompanies the chant. The 54-year-old asked her son, Andrew Popp, a UF senior and member of the band, why 
the song wasn’t played, but he didn’t know.
Julie Popp emailed director of athletic bands 
Jay Watkins, who responded the UAA banned 
the song because it promoted bad sportsman-ship, she said.
Watkins has not returned requests for com-
ment as of press time.
But Julie Popp said she thinks the ban is ri-
diculous.
“I think a couple boosters are upset that 
some of the students chant ‘move back, you suck,’ and they were powerful enough to get it changed,” she said.
UF philosophy freshman Bailey Underill said 
she was sad when she found out about the ban through the app Yik Yak, where students post anonymously.
The 18-year-old said it’s her favorite chant 
because it gets UF fans riled up.
“I know a bunch of people are going to chant 
it at the Ole Miss game no matter if the band plays it or not,” she said.  UF bans 
‘Move back, 
you suck’ 
penalty chant
ALL THREE FLOORS OF PUGH 
HALL WERE FILLED.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
When Brittany Ferguson painted her 
childhood hero, Malcolm X, in July, she had 
no idea his daughter would be holding the painting two months later.
Monday afternoon, she watched as his daughter, Ilyasah Shabazz, accepted her painting, a portrait of Malcolm X in hues of blue, after Shabazz spoke to a crowd in the 
Bob Graham Center for Public Service. Sha-
ron Austin, the director of UF’s African-Amer-ican Studies program, had purchased the painting at Ferguson’s art show in July and made a point of passing the painting along.
Ferguson then approached the stage and 
the two embraced.
“First of all, it’s a humbling experience 
to be here to hear her speak,” Ferguson, 29, 
said. “It’s a massive honor for her to have a little piece of something I did.”
Students packed into Pugh Hall to hear 
Shabazz’s speech, ﬁ  lling all three ﬂ  oors and standing in the back of the room.
Though Shabazz, 53, speaks at colleges 
regularly, it was her ﬁ  rst time in Gainesville. 
She spoke at both the Graham Center on Monday and the Alachua County Library Dis-trict Headquarters Library on Sunday.
Shabazz said her message was mostly the 
same in both speeches: to focus on education Malcolm X’s daughter speaks at UF
SEE MALCOLM X,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. MonTUESDAY through FriTUESDAY, except for holiTUES-
DAYs. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published MonTUESDAY through 
FriTUESDAY mornings, except during holiTUESDAYs and exam periods. During UF summer aca-
demic terms The Alligator  is published TuesTUESDAYs and ThursTUESDAYs.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement with Cuba
The UF Center for Latin 
American Studies, UF Cuba Program, UF International Center and the Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences invite 
you to attend a workshop on ac-
ademic engagement with Cuba today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at 
the UF International Center. 
The workshop is free and open to the public, but registration is required. To reserve your seat, please visit EventBrite.com (search: Workshop on Academic Engagement with Cuba).
Coming Out Kinky: A Grown 
Up Comedy
This comedy follows one adventurous woman’s curi-
ous exploration of her sexu-
ality. “Coming Out Kinky” 
has female-empowering and 
sex-positive messages, which include learning to make good choices and trusting the 
wisdom of one’s own body. 
Young women will recognize themselves as Jean finds solid footing across the uneven ter-rain of sexual experimenta-
tion and expression. The show 
is certainly Rated R and will be shown Wednesday from 8:30 p.m. to 11 p.m. at Ustler 
Hall Atrium. For more infor-
mation go to facebook.com/events/958752354171288/.
PECHAKUCHA x Fulbright 
20X20  The Fulbright Lecture Series Committee in conjunction with 
the Fulbright Association North 
Florida Chapter, International Center and Graduate School will host its first ever 
PECHAKUCHAxFulbright  
20X20 event Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Keene Faculty Center in Dauer Hall. To be a presenter, email Charlie 
Guy at clguy@ufl.edu. The 
event is free and open to the public, but registration is en-couraged. To register, visit 
Eventbrite.com and search un-
der PECHAKUCHAxFulbright 20X20.
5K Walk to Eliminate Health 
DisparitiesInterested in raising aware-ness about health disparities while exercising and having fun? The UF Health Disparities 
Research intervention Program 
(Dr. Carolyn M. Tucker, Director) and Suwannee River Area Health Education Center  
(Sarah Catalanotto, Executive 
Director) are sponsoring a 5K walk titled “2015 Walk to Eliminate Health Disparities: Walking to Promote a Healthy 
Weight” on Oct. 10 from 8 a.m. 
to 10:30 a.m. There will be free prizes and healthy snacks. All are welcome to register in ad-
vance at tx.ag/5KWalk free of 
charge.
Talking Gators meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Drive, UF cam-
pus, east of the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For de-tails about Talking Gators, 
go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page.
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-
tidisciplinary clinic at the 
UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. 
The program provides free and 
confidential legal representa-tion, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as 
immigration and restraining or-
ders for the protection against domestic violence. The pro-gram also has a social worker 
who specializes in intimate 
partner violence and provides counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal 
system and providing valuable 
community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 
352-273-0805 or email drake@
law.ufl.edu.
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
Comedy
Free stand-up comedy features 
UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret. The 
show features professional co-medians and amateur comics tearing up the stage. Feeling funny? Show up before 9 p.m. 
and sign up for our comedy 
open mic.  The comedy work-shop at 8 p.m. is hosted by lo-cal pros. Visit  facebook.com/
gainesvillecomedyshowcase.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club invites you and your friends out to its bi-weekly 
lessons/dances every Monday 
and Friday. The club will have free lessons for beginners and intermediates, which are open to everyone. Monday nights 
we are at the Reitz Union 
Breezeway, 655 Reitz Union Drive, with lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social danc-
ing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
Friday nights we are at the Unified Training Center, 809 W. University Avenue, with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
and social dancing from 9 p.m. 
to midnight. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find the club 
on Facebook at facebook.com/
groups/FLSDC/. We hope to dance with you all soon.
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-
ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. Total prizes will equal $525. Submission period is until 
Oct. 9. For more information, 
please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html or email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 26
HIGH  84° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith,   
                                                                                                            Jessica Gonzalez, Josh Warner
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloUF professor uses science to teach writing
There’s a formula to writing well.
While teaching, UF business professor Yellowlees Douglas realized writing hadn’t been broken down into a science. Writing guides are typically ambigu-ous and confusing, she said.
That’s why Douglas researched how to make 
writing easy to read and understand, which she wrote about in her book, “The Reader’s Brain: How Neuroscience Can Make You a Better Writer.” It was published earlier this fall.“The book is designed to demystify what makes writing readable and how to understand it,” she said.To conduct her research, Douglas used data 
from eye tracking, where test subjects would 
be timed as they read a page. After people read the page, they were taught grammar and sentence structure, key elements of writing that allowed the test subjects to read more quickly. This proved people are able to better understand what they’re reading when they know elements of writing.She said she wanted to write a concise and 
affordable book that could explain writing in 
a practical way to college students. Still, the book could be used by anyone interested in improving their writing skills, she said.Douglas said those gifted in math and sci-ence can learn from her book because it uses data.“It’s pragmatic but science-based,” she said.
-Rachel HowardUF researchers find way to print 3-D brains
A new technology developed at UF will make it possible to replicate someone’s brain.
With 3-D printing technology developed at the UF Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, neurosurgeons will be able to make 
a model of a patient’s brain before operating on it. 
This will allow doctors to practice the operation on a replica instead of the patient.UF mechanical and aerospace engineering profes-sor and the study’s researcher Tommy Angelini said he began researching how to print soft 3-D models about a year and a half ago. With the new technology, doctors will be able to replicate human cells and tissues.  
The printer’s technology will also allow doctors to test medicines on cells to see what drugs are most effective, eliminat-ing the need to test on cancer patients, said lead project author Tapomoy Bhattacharjee.The second-year doctoral student said he thinks 3-D printing of soft materials has a direct impact on the medical industry.
The development can be valuable dur-
ing high-risk surgeries because doctors can use patients’ MRIs as a plan for printing human-brain models out of hy-drogels, which feel like a regular brain, Bhattacharjee said.  “You get this brain out, feel the brain and you can just practice the operation on the fake brain,” he said.
Bhattacharjee said the UF College of 
Engineering is trying to make the technol-ogy available to UF medical students.“Personalized medicine is the idea,” Bhattacharjee said.
-Jennifer Jenkins
UF-based survey finds consumers’ confi-
dence declining
Florida consumers aren’t as confident this month.
The September UF consumer survey showed an overall de-
crease in consumer confidence of about 3 percent, said Chris 
McCarty, the director of UF’s Survey Research Center in the Bureau of Economics and Business Research.Floridians feel their personal finances are declining, and they don’t feel confident the U.S. economy is doing well, McCarty said. Those surveyed are less confident in the U.S. economy 
than people were in the 1960s.
However, he said consumers believe now is a good time to make purchases on big-ticket items, like cars and appliances.McCarty said the surveys are important because the U.S. economy is largely based on how much money people spend.  “About 70 percent of our economy is people buying things, as opposed to export-driven like in China or Germany,” he said.The survey data can be particularly important during election 
season because low confidence ratings can encourage voters 
to analyze party economics, McCarty said.Those with the most negative responses were more than 60 years old or had incomes over $50,000 a year, he said.“These facts make sense given the stock market declines that happened last month,” McCarty said.
-Emily MavrakisTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF Department of Mechanical and Aerospace 
Engineering, neurosurgeons will be able to make 
a model of a patient’s brain before operating on it. 
This will allow doctors to practice the operation on 
a replica instead of the patient.
UF mechanical and aerospace engineering profes-
sor and the study’s researcher Tommy Angelini 
said he began researching how to print soft 3-D 
models about a year and a half ago. With the new 
technology, doctors will be able to replicate human 
cells and tissues.  
THERE WILL BE A MARCH 
AND BENEFIT CONCERT.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
For Karina Fundora, elephants are 
the closest thing to magic.
“I think they’re the most beautiful 
creatures (in the world),” said the UF psychology sophomore.
On Sunday, the 19-year-old will 
march in honor of her favorite ani-mal as a participant in the Global March for Elephants and Rhinos, hosted by the Conservation Initiative for the Asian Elephant, or CIFAE. The march is one of several global marches this weekend that will bring attention to the ivory trade and the 
harm it causes elephants.
“We have an ofﬁ  ce in Gainesville, 
and this was part of the reason 
we wanted to bring the march to Gainesville,” said Ron Chandler, a co-founder of CIFAE and a UF psy-chology professor. He said he hopes at least 150 people will attend the march, which will begin at 10:30 a.m. on the Plaza of the Americas and proceed to the Hippodrome State Theatre.
While the march was held across 
the world last year, Chandler said this is the ﬁ  rst year the march will 
be held in Gainesville. He estimated 
it will cost about $2,500 to hold the march, which he said will have cos-tumes and music.
“This will be in sync with the oth-
er marches that will occur globally,” Chandler said.  
In addition to the march, the orga-
nization will partner with Elephanto-pia, which will host a beneﬁ  t concert at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Saturday to coincide with march-es in different time zones and raise funds for elephants abused in the ivory trade.
The concert will also raise funds 
for Kavala, an orphaned elephant who lost her mother to poachers in 2011. Elizabeth Chitwood, the founder of Elephantopia, said the organization hopes to raise $3,000 — a quarter of the amount necessary to provide for the elephant and her caretakers.Local bands, including reggae 
band Melting Funk Pot and Chit-wood’s band, Blue Slammers, will perform at the event, and speakers will present about the ivory trade.
Despite the football game against 
the University of Mississippi, Chit-wood said she hopes at least 300 people will stop by the event, which begins at 4 p.m., to donate and learn about the cause.  
“It’s a global issue that doesn’t 
have enough press,” she said. “Peo-ple don’t understand the crisis we are facing.”
Elephantopia hits GNV as residents advocate against cruelty 4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Ilyasah Shabazz, daughter of Malcolm X, speaks to students at the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service on Monday. She talked about producing changes in global issues, such as institutionalized racism, through education.
By Lexie Bajalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF sociology senior Gigi Ber-
mudez said there are standards 
that define how Americans see beauty: blonde hair, blue eyes, fair skin and a slim figure.
Bermudez, 22, is a student am-
bassador for UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs. She said most minority women grow up struggling to see themselves as beautiful because they do not meet certain stan-dards.
Because of this, Bermudez said 
she’s helping plan “Women’s Em-power Hour: Eurocentric Beauty Standards” in the Florida Gym on Wednesday at 5:45 p.m. UF Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs and Hispanic-Latino Affairs are hosting the event, which aims to encourage women to embrace their own physical appearances.
“Trying to aspire to whiteness 
for the sake of acceptance leads to 
so many people having lower self 
esteem,” Bermudez said.
The event will be interactive, 
and the audience will be able to talk about the physical features they don’t like about themselves, she said. The purpose of the ac-tivity is to reveal the impact that standard beauty ideals have on the way women see themselves.
APIA and HLA will also facili-
tate discussions about Eurocentric 
beauty standards and give a pre-
sentation about their history.
“The event is really, really im-
portant because it’s accepting that someone else’s beauty is not the absence of your own,” she said.
UF APIA Student Ambassador 
Nashrah Ahmed said children growing up hearing white is beau-tiful often begin to develop inter-nalized racism: when people be-come racist against their own race.
By the end of the event, Bermu-
dez said she hopes minority wom-en feel proud of who they are.
“Learn how to walk in your 
own shoes and be as authentic as you can be,” Bermudez said. “When you’re true to yourself, that’s when your beauty really ra-diates.”
UF groups to discuss Eurocentric beauty standards
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Saturday night after he reportedly stole a bi-cycle when a tire went flat on the one he was using.
At about 10 p.m. Saturday, Keivon Had-ley, 20, entered Royal Village apartments and broke a cable lock with his hands, according to a police report.
An Alachua County Sheriff’s Office depu-
ty living in the community reportedly heard Hadley breaking the lock and walked outside 
to see him pushing a blue Glendale women’s 
bike. A purple women’s mountain bike was leaning on a wall near the bike rack.Hadley later told police he visited his 
grandma using the purple bike, which he found outside his girlfriend’s Windsor Ter-race apartment, according to the report.
He reportedly said his girlfriend gave him 
permission to use the bike, but he didn’t 
know who owned it.
Hadley said he took the blue bike because 
the purple bike got a flat tire and he didn’t want to walk, according to the report.
When police asked how hard it was to 
break the lock, he reportedly said, “It ain’t 
s---... those things are garbage.”
Hadley declined requests for comment.Police arrested Hadley on a loitering and 
prowling charge and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Sunday afternoon on his own recognizance. Local man arrested for loitering and prowling, tried to steal bike 
to affect change.
Shabazz said she studied biology in 
college, which for her emphasized the vast difference between humans and in-sects, amphibians and plant life: human-ity.
“The only reason why we do this 
work is because of love and compas-sion,” she said to the crowd. “My fa-ther did it because he loved his people so much that he sacrificed his life going 
around the world trying to figure out how 
to end injustice.”
Shabazz said not much has changed 
about institutionalized racism in America since the 1950s and ’60s. But now we have smartphones, she said.
“This is the time in your lives to or-
ganize yourselves through social media all across the world,” she said during the speech. “Just as those who labored be-fore you, you will set promising examples to the next generation of justice seekers.”
Shabazz also pointed out the impor-
tance of taking steps beyond posting a Black Lives Matter hashtag and calling 
oneself an activist.
Suroosh Mostoufi, a UF international 
studies senior, said he liked Shabazz’s 
emphasis on history and education as the key to solving global issues.
“Like she said, without a full under-
standing of history, your education is in-complete,” the 22-year-old said. “You’re doomed to make the mistakes of the 
past.”
Shabazz said one solution is having 
faith.
“You are the leaders that have to 
make a difference,” she said. “If you be-
lieve you can make a difference, change will happen.”MALCOLM X,  from pg1Her speeches focused on how 
education affects changeSHE’S WORKING ON A 
SECOND PART.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Last year, Natalie McGriff hated 
her hair.
She didn’t like her afro puffs, the 
way they tangled when she tried to 
brush them.
As a solution, she helped write a 
book.
“She didn’t see anybody that 
looked like her,” said Angie Nixon, Natalie’s mother and co-author. She 
said she pitched the idea to help her 
daughter feel more conﬁ  dent and foster a love of reading.
Monday night at First Presbyte-
rian Church, Natalie read the whole 
story of “The Adventures of Moxie 
McGriff” to an audience of about 20 people before donating and sign-ing copies. It was the latest stop in a book tour that included cities in Florida and, this past weekend, Washington, D.C.
“I’m a proud mommy,” Nixon 
said. “Those are her words com-ing from her mouth, so that’s awe-some.”
The 34-page book follows Nata-
lie as she talks about hating her hair and wishing for straight, Rapunzel-like locks. But things change after 
she receives “Moxie” brand sham-
poo and conditioner from her god-mother. When her class goes to visit the library and monsters attack, eat-
ing all the books, her afro puffs be-
gin to glow red and blue. She runs 
off the bus to confront the monsters 
when the book ends.
The mother-daughter writing 
team plan to ﬁ  nish part two by Black Friday.
“We would sit down at her bed at 
night and just bounce ideas,” Nixon said of the writing process. “It’s been 
a whirlwind ever since.”
In April, Natalie and her mother 
entered the book into a crowd-fund-
ing contest, One Spark, where they won ﬁ  rst place and $16,000. The 
$16,000 was used to pay an illustra-
tor and publish the book.
Nixon and her daughter stopped 
at the church because Nixon, a UF alumna, used to volunteer there.
For Natalie King, the director of a 
tutoring program at the church, the book was an inspiration for the stu-dents she works with and her son, Antonio, who hopes to be an author.
“It kind of struck a nerve,” King 
said.
The younger members of the 
audience were also encouraged by Natalie’s success and the story’s message.
“I really think it’s inspiring for 
little girls,” said Jonia Stover, an 11-year-old sixth grader from How-ard W. Bishop Middle School, whose 
hair mirrors Natalie’s.
After the book reading and sign-
ing, Natalie said she felt happy.“I like people reading my story,” 
she said. “It should help them to 
read and like their hair — and them-selves.”TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eight-year-old Natalie McGriff, author of “The Adventures of Moxie McGriff, ” reads her comic book to an 
audience of about 20 people with her mother, Angie Nixon, on Monday at First Presbyterian Church. 
8-year-old author donates her comic books to churchBy Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF engineering students hope to wel-
come the future with a new club. 
This Fall, the group called Gatorloop 
started designing a high-speed transporta-
tion system for the SpaceX Hyperloop Pod 
Competition.Gatorloop is designing and building a 
Hyperloop, which is like a fast train. Un-
like a train, a Hyperloop is a solar-powered capsule that runs through a tube, said 24-year-old co-founder of Gatorloop and UF aerospace engineering senior Sebastian Quesada.
SpaceX CEO Elon Musk proposed the 
idea for the competition, Quesada said. Instead of creating the Hyperloop him-
self, Musk crowdsourced the design pro-cess, calling engineers from around the world to submit their projects, said 21-year-old Gatorloop co-founder and UF mechani-cal engineering junior Ben Duncan.
“On our team is only students, but the 
competition is open to anyone in the world, whether it’s a company or a guy in his ga-rage,” said 23-year-old Gatorloop co-found-er and UF aerospace engineering master’s student Taylor Waber. 
Although they’re unsure how much the 
project will cost, Duncan said another team has a $500,000 budget. The group is looking for ﬁ  nancial sponsors. 
Waber said the preliminary design is due 
next month. UF engineering students try to revolutionize transportationThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
It’s a great day when powerful people get 
caught doing bad things. Not bad as in be-ing fellatio’d in the Oval Office or molesting-their-sister-while-espousing-conservative-family-values bad — more like corporate 
greed and deliberate-deception-of-the-public bad. Although it should be noted the exposure of hypocrisy does have its salience, there are bigger fish to broil today (not fry, ‘cause we’re trying to watch our figures).
This past week, it was announced Volkswa-
gen faces a criminal investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as a recall of 500,000 vehi-cles in the U.S. alone. This came courtesy of the U.S. Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency’s pursuance into the suspect 
case of emission irregularities between the diesel-engine cars they tested and the cars Volkswagen sold, which are now being driven on the road. As it was revealed, Volk-swagen had deliberately installed software to dupe con-sumers (as well as the EPA) about the true level of air pollution their four-cylinder turbo diesel motors produce. In addition to class-action lawsuits, a massive mistrust between consumer and carmaker will now be hard to 
shake for Volkswagen, as the ruse has apparently been 
in effect since as early as 2009. Customers wanting to do their part in reducing emissions and contribution to smog buildup instead were unknowingly emitting between 10 to 40 times more pollutants than advertised. This sucks if you’re a Volkswagen customer or a firm believer in the auto industry’s adherence to the rules, but it’s good news for the fate of Mother Earth.
Superficially, such an incident might spell doom for 
the green movement in the auto industry. This is espe-cially pronounced in the U.S., where our love for fossil fuels keeps at bay any real successful stride en masse in adapting our cars to rely on renewables. But in consider-ation, there lays an advantage for battery-powered and renewable-sourced cars, as CEO of Tesla Motors Elon Musk aptly noted in response to a question referencing the recent scandal and the fate of the green movement in the auto industry. “What Volkswagen is really showing,” Musk noted, “is that we’ve reached the limit of what’s possible with diesel and gasoline.”
That would seem to be the outright truth. 
Ventures such as ethanol and biodiesel, pur-ported to be “cleaner” sources of fossil fuel, have hit a wall. Knowing this, Volkswagen’s only alternative was to lie about the efficacy of their “clean” diesel engines — as they very well couldn’t continue to market fossil fuels as ca-pable of evolving beyond their limit. The back-
lash from consumers conscious of the environment will pressure Volkswagen to honestly and arduously engage 
in a green campaign, forcing them to seek success in the 
electric-car market. And while the adaptation of cars that don’t pollute will not take the country by storm overnight, this certainly is a step in the right direction. Good news for people who love to breathe.
Additionally, the EPA plans to investigate other major 
car manufacturers to see if they meet emission standards, and should there be a company of cheaters, it will only drive consumers to demand a truly viable clean engine, 
which will be met with major car manufacturers entering 
the electric-car market.
There is no doubt there will remain those who proudly 
cough smog into the atmosphere and decry such regula-tion by the EPA, citing the death of jobs, but this red-handed act is a promising progression for those who have acknowledged the sickly status of our planet. No longer can the lie of “cleaner” or “less dirty” be used by the auto industry or be accepted by those aspiring to be con-
scientious consumers. Now, the specious argument label-
ing the EPA as an unnecessary expense and inefficient in comparison to the nature of the free market cannot be so easily espoused by politicians who take the stage in de-fense of an industry that has crippled the country for far too long. Good news for people who are tired of bullshit.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe journalism junior. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.
Volkswagen recall may prove to be positiveWith SG elections in full 
swing, voting is more 
important than ever
It is universally agreed that democracy is a cornerstone 
of American values. By most accounts, it is the raison d’être for our country’s existence. The concepts which 
fall under democratic ideals, such as the freedom of 
choice and freedom of speech, have fundamentally 
shaped this nation’s political culture and social mores.
Despite the fact that democracy is often used to justify 
an individual’s choice to consume much-too-large portions of food and sugary beverages — not to mention the most hateful speech one will ever hear — it seems as though it is rarely invoked to encourage the activity it was ostensibly conceived for: voting for one’s leaders.
As many of you know, Student Government elections 
are being held today and Wednesday. Around campus, men and women will be taking part in the great democratic pro-cess that is waiting their turn, all ready to decide who will 
represent their interests for the remainder of the semester.
Although it sounds trite, this election is a particularly 
important one. The race between the Access and Impact 
Parties has been more heated than usual, likely because this election will determine SG’s agenda for the foreseeable fu-
ture. 
Access’ victory in securing executive positions last Spring 
represented the strongest show of power by an opposition 
party in at least a decade — this election, whether Access 
had run against the Swamp Party or Impact, was always go-
ing to be particularly contentious.
We don’t need to tell you this country suffers from a 
political apathy problem, particularly among young people. Hell, The Huffington Post has a whole section dedicated to 
think pieces on political apathy.
But, at the risk of writing the tritest editorial ever, it is es-
sential we as students mobilize to vote today and Wednes-
day, regardless of party preference or affiliation. As we not-
ed last year, Access, bolstered by the highest voter turnout 
ever, won by 124 votes. In case your knowledge of statistics needs a little work, 124 votes is an incredibly small margin of victory.
Like national politics, the student apathy behind SG 
elections generally stems from the belief that the policies enacted by SG will have little to no effect on one’s day-to-day experience at UF. Au contraire, cynical Student Body: The happenings of SG directly impact you (seriously, no 
pun intended) from the moment you pay your first tuition 
fee, with nearly $18.19 per credit hour of it directed toward building SG’s yearly budget through the Activities and Ser-vice Fee.
The budget, which is in the millions, essentially means 
we as a Student Body have paid for the right to dictate who is in charge of where our money is spent. 
From a perspective of pure practicality, it would be a pro-
found waste of money NOT to participate in the democratic 
process. Although it is ultimately an individual choice, we 
encourage each and every student to use his or her own dollars wisely and make it a point to have his or her voice heard from the moment the polls open today to when they close Wednesday.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Good satire can make you 
laugh, think or act; the best satire will make you do all three.
An Alligator Op-Ed 
from last week quipped “Comedic journalism is informative and here to stay.” The beauty of this argu-ment is comedic journalism is here to not only stay but improve and evolve as well. In that vein, John Oliver’s “Last Week Tonight” dis-plays a new branch of evolution in comedic journalism.
Among the group of “The Daily Show” 
offshoots, Oliver’s program ventures into new terrain. While focusing on a single, usually not-so-well-known issue for about 10, 12 or some-times 20 minutes would normally be thought of as comedic suicide, Oliver and crew use this format to delve deeper into issues. From this depth of coverage and satire, Oliver often draws forth possible solutions or methods of 
civic activism, a phenomenon Time magazine 
has coined the “John Oliver Effect.”What does this “John Oliver Effect” look like in action?
On May 16, Oliver and crew focused on 
contract farming in the chicken industry — not a very sexy topic at ﬁ  rst glance. From the exploitation of chicken farmers by corpora-tions imposing expensive upgrades to the lack of proﬁ  ts farmers can make off their chickens 
due to unfair contract restrictions, Oliver ex-
posed the full extent of corporate malpractice against farmers in the chicken industry. “How can the people who make the meat we eat the most barely be making a living?” Oliver object-ed. The resulting public outrage was astound-ing. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) remarked, “We’ve never had publicity like this in the 16 years I’ve been working on this issue.” Like-
wise, back in June 2014, Oliver covered net 
neutrality, which is the principle that Internet service providers like Verizon, Cox and Time Warner should not be able to charge com-panies like Netﬂ  ix, Facebook and Google for faster Internet connection speeds. In January  2014, a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) appeals court motioned to remove net neutrality.
In response to public protest and outrage, a 120-day open commentary period opened on the FCC website for the public to address concerns over net neutrality. Oliver directed his attention toward breaking down 
net neutrality for his audience, and 
then rallying Internet commenters across the country to ﬂ  ood the FCC’s website with their thoughts.
The result? More than one mil-
lion comments were left on the FCC’s site the following day, in-
variably crashing the website. This is the kind of activism comedic journalism is capable of 
inspiring. Interestingly enough, amid his suc-
cess and rapidly growing fame, John Oliver upholds his humility. In a May 2015 interview with Jorge Ramos, Oliver commented, “I’m not a journalist… I’m a comedian.” Oliver feels the notion he has more credibility than most journalists, which, Ramos brings up in the interview, is “more an insult to the current state of journalism than it is a compliment to 
the state of comedy.”
Comedy, journalism or entertainment; 
whichever you feel John Oliver does, you 
must admit he does so with journalistic integ-rity. The best example of this is Oliver’s cover-age, or lack thereof, of the Aug. 7 Republican presidential debate. “In fact the main head-lines the next day were nothing to do with the battle between the candidates on stage but be-
tween Donald Trump and moderator Megyn 
Kelly,” Oliver contended. “If you want to hear more on the Trump-Kelly showdown, you can basically watch any news network right now, ‘cause it’s all they’re f-----g talking about. But we are going to move on.”
Oliver then directed the attention of the epi-
sode to an issue of relevance to the American public: the underdeveloped, inconsistent and 
often biased sex education system. As the of-
ﬁ  cial U.S. news networks continually veer to-ward misinformation and sensationalism, late-night comedians are not only connecting more directly with the hearts and minds of the pub-lic, but also displaying a truer sense of journal-istic integrity in the process. The “John Oliver Effect” is what the news ought to inspire.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics 
sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays. 
 The ‘John Oliver Effect’ in action
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgThis week ushers in the be-
ginning of October, what I believe to be the best 31 days of the calendar year. This opinion isn’t based 
solely on the imminent approach of Halloween — which is unsur-prisingly my favorite holiday — but also on the variety of changes the month seems to bring with it. With October comes the promise of cool(ish) autumn weather, the inability to escape pictures of girls in pump-kin patches and, of course, showings of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show.”
I watched “Rocky Horror” for the ﬁ  rst 
time as a sophomore in high school at the request of my mother. It was the night of Halloween 2010 when she called from the couch for me to throw away my plans and watch it with her. As a 15-year-old, I was much more inclined to parade around the neighborhood in my suggestive interpre-tation of a cat costume than to stay home and watch a movie with my mom, but after enough pleading, I ﬁ  nally gave in.
It was unlike anything I had ever seen 
before. To my inexperienced eyes, all I took away from it was an hour-and-a-half-long kitschy frenzy of ﬁ  shnets, sequins and cor-sets. I was entranced by Tim Curry’s be-dazzled, gender-bending Dr. Frank N. Furter and even more surprised my 45-year-old mother was just as, if not more, enthralled. A child of the ‘80s, she grew up attending midnight showings just as “Rocky Horror” was solidifying its status as a cult classic, and she has made a point to watch it every Halloween. By sharing it with me, my mom unknowingly proved Rocky’s executive pro-ducer Lou Adler right when he called it “a family ﬁ  lm.”
This year marks the 40th anniversary 
of the movie, having ﬁ  rst premiered in the U.S. on Sept. 25, 1975, and now holding the title of the longest-running ﬁ  lm in history. The key to the movie’s as-cension from campy cult classic to full-blown cultural phenomenon lies in the audience participation that has become integral to the experience. Whether it’s by throw-ing rice during the wedding scene, dressing as characters or putting on live reenactments, the audience becomes as much a part of “Rocky Horror” as the ﬁ  lm itself.
Like any other cult classic, the ﬁ  lm has 
been the subject of immense theoretical de-bate. Is it about the sexual revolution of the ‘60s? The death of rock ‘n’ roll? The end of heteronormative gender roles? All of these theories can easily be upheld considering the variety of cultural allusions mingling within the narrative. The inﬂ  uences of Da-vid Bowie, science ﬁ  ction and punk sub-culture are just the beginning in this glitzy kaleidoscope, leaving many viewers unsure of what to take away from it.
What I see is an unabashed celebration 
of the “other.” In all its outlandishness, “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” and its accompanying community are founded on the acceptance of anyone willing to have a good time and potentially rock a corset re-gardless of sexuality, gender or race. These counterculture roots will continue to fuel its mainstream success and endear generations to come.
Forty years never looked so good, and 
what better way to celebrate this major mile-stone than experiencing the “Rocky Horror” community for yourself? Showings start at High Dive on Thursday. Feather boas and ﬁ  shnets are optional but encouraged. Pre-pare to join fellow creatures of the night and, in the immortal words of Dr. Frank N. Furter, “shiver with antici…pation”.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
40 years later, eccentric classic 
‘Rocky Horror’ still a crowd pleaser
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org• Broward Hall Library
• Health Science Center, C2-041C
• Heavener Hall, Room 202
• Jennings Hall Library
• Law School (Bruton Geer) 
 side hallways by the cafeteria• Marston Science Library
• Murphree Area Commons
• Norman Hall Education Library
• Reitz Union Computer Lab
• Southwest Recreation Center
• Springs Area OfficeTHECANDIDATESStaff Report
Editor’s note: On Sept. 17, the UF Access 
and Impact Student Government Parties 
took to BuzzFeed to give their respective sides to SG questions. The Alligator decided to take a look at both sides’ responses, ex-plain their validity and provide an analysis. Below are the seven questions — posted verbatim from the BuzzFeed articles — answered by both parties along with our analyses. Due to space restrictions in print, the parties’ full responses can be found online at Alligator.org.
Question 1 — So I heard that Impact Party was started by Access Party?
Impact Party was started by former Ac-
cess senators Chris Boyett and Saneh Ste. 
Claire, former Swamp Party budget and ap-
propriations chairwoman Susan Webster 
and former Swamp Director of External Af-fairs Blake Murphy.
Boyett ran with Swamp in Fall 2012 but 
lost to a Students Party senator. Boyett and Ste. Claire ran with Access in Spring 2015 and won the College of Liberal Arts and Sci-ences seats.
According to election results, Webster 
ran for a freshman seat with Swamp in 2013 and won, and then in 2014, she ran with Swamp for a liberal arts and sciences seat and won. She ran with Swamp in 2015 for a 
liberal arts and sciences seat again and lost 
to Access candidates. According to Alligator archives, Webster returned to Senate as a replacement senator for District A in March 2015.
Outside of Boyett and Ste. Claire, no oth-
er Access senators who won seats during the Spring election have switched parties. Boy-ett told the Alligator more Access senators 
switched to Impact, but this was found to 
be false. The Alligator verified each Access senator with Access party leader Michael Christ.
Impact party is made up of many former 
Swamp leaders and senators:
• Allocations Chairwoman Sen. Jenny Clements (District A)
• Budget and Appropriations Chair-
man Sen. Smith Meyers (District A)
• Judiciary Chairman Sen. Jason Rich-
ards (then — District C)
Question 2 — Hold on a 
second … I heard Impact Party was made up of former Access Senators. What’s up with that?
As stated in Question 1, Impact was 
founded by two former Access senators: Ste. 
Claire and Boyett. Ste. Claire provided the 
Alligator with a list of former Access sena-
tors who switched, but these senators were only replacement senators for Summer and some of them were never senators.
Ste. Claire said Max Klein, Sara Wede-
meyer, Ismael Syed, Wyatt Fulgham, Avery Smith, Jason Feliciano, Jonathan Frish and Elliot Spector were former Access senators who switched.
The Alligator found that Klein, Wedemey-
er and Syed were Access replacement sena-
tors during Summer and therefore did not 
run for office with Access. The other names Ste. Claire provided — Fulgham, Smith, Feli-ciano and Frish — were not senators.
Boyett told the Alligator Smith was a 
founder of Access who joined Impact, which the Alligator found to be false. The found-ers of Access are Matthew Hoeck, Michael Christ and Ford Dwyer, Christ and Hoeck 
confirmed.
Question 3 — So what the 
heck happened to Swamp Party?
Swamp still exists as a party but did not 
register for qualifying and slating for Fall 
2015 SG elections. Swamp President Davis 
Bean said his party did not register because 
core members left the party.
“To see something that I put so much ef-
fort into fall apart is disappointing,” he said.
Bean said Swamp is still a legitimate par-
ty. It has a president, treasurer and about 30 members.
Leah Miller, Senate president pro tem-
pore, said the party didn’t register candi-
dates to run with the party because Impact 
formed.
“I think it’s because if they do want to 
move to Impact, they’re finishing up as 
Swamp,” she said. “I believe that this new 
party is what will bring Student Govern-ment to the next level.”
Some Swamp senators wanted to run 
with Swamp in Fall, Miller said. However, 
she said she thinks the new party will help 
Senate.
“People have different ideas,” she said. 
“That’s why Access party was created last 
Spring.”
Question 4 — So Impact 
says that they want to “end the gridlock” and form one party from Access and Swamp, right?
The “gridlock” is in reference to the mul-
tiple debates, party-line voting and lack of 
agreement in Senate over the Summer that 
resulted in delayed approval for several key 
positions in SG, most notably six executive branch agency head positions — Accent chairperson, Action SG chairperson, Chomp 
the Vote director, External Affairs director, 
Student Government Productions chairper-son and SGP comptroller — and the super-visor of elections position.
After the first seven department heads 
were approved at the April 21 Senate meet-ing, it took the executive committee — which consists of three Swamp and three Access members — 105 days to compromise 
and bring a second set of nominees to the 
Senate floor. The final six were approved Aug. 4.
The Senate approved Sam Book as the 
Supervisor of Elections on Aug. 25 — the 
first meeting of the Fall semester — after 
Student Body President Joselin Padron-Ra-sines’ initial nominee, Sarah Winter, was rejected twice by the Senate chambers dur-
ing the first two meetings over Summer. Pa-
dron-Rasines did not appoint another can-didate throughout the Summer. As of press time, Book resigned Friday due to “family 
issues,” he wrote in an email, and Erica 
Baker was appointed in his place by the UF Supreme Court.
But with that said, Impact is not nec-
essarily attempting to form one party, al-
though Boyett said Impact would not turn 
away any person — regardless of past af-filiations — if he or she was interested in joining the party.
Question 5 — So I heard 
from a very credible source (Yik Yak) that Ac-cess Party has done noth-ing since they were elect-ed. Is that true?
Here is a brief outline of what the Access 
Party has accomplished since taking office 
after the Spring election:
Tax-free textbook lobbying: Lobby-
ing records show the Spring government lobbied for tax-free textbooks, but this ini-tiative was started by Swamp. Lobbying 
reports show the first lobbying initiative 
for tax-free textbooks by SG occurred Janu-ary through March, when Swamp was in charge. This lobbying was continued by Ac-cess during a second lobbying period from 
April through June. Florida’s Department of 
Revenue implemented the College Textbook Exemption on June 26.
Gender-neutral bathrooms: Access did 
successfully work with the university to install seven gender-neutral bathrooms in Cypress Hall. This is more than the single stall Impact claimed Access installed on its BuzzFeed post. They have also been work-
ing with UF’s offices of Lesbian, Gay, Bi-
sexual and Transgender Affairs and Hous-ing and Residence Education to bring 35 to 40 more gender-neutral bathrooms to 
dorms and other buildings on campus, said 
Kalyani Hawaldar, Access president. LGBT Affairs has a full list of on-campus gender-neutral bathrooms on its website.
Marston 24/5: According to Alligator 
archives, the switch was Marston Science Library officials’ idea, and the switch was time-sensitive due to the approaching Fall semester. Nicholas Carre, UF Student Body 
treasurer, sent out a survey to senators 
and got about 20 responses, and George A. Smathers Libraries got about 5,000 respons-es on a survey run on their computers. There was no clear preference from results. Access 
claimed in its BuzzFeed post that Marston 
has more seating and outlets than Library West. Judith Russell, the dean of university libraries, wrote in an email Marston seats 
about 2,100 people, while Library West has 
seating for about 1,400. However, Library West has more outlets than Marston, with almost 2,900. Marston has more than 1,900 outlets, with 76 outlets on the fourth floor 
and 72 on the fifth, Russell said.
Open door policy: The SG executive 
branch is required to have office hours by 
the SG statutes. But, Access administration 
has been encouraging students to utilize 
these hours through their social media cam-paign #SGPowerHours, in which students 
can talk with the executive board and get 
their picture taken with the Student Body president, vice president or treasurer. Office hours weren’t promoted to that extent un-
der Swamp.
Financial transparency: Docutraq, the 
activity request system for student organi-
zations funded by SG, is not accessible to the general Student Body. However, SG has 
been releasing its finances on its website. 
The document is currently released once a month after sensitive information, such as UFID numbers, is removed. While it isn’t 
the level of transparency Access promised, 
financial information was not published on-line under Swamp.
Question 6 — So I keep 
hearing that (Student Government) kept $1.5 million hostage for 105 days from the student body? That’s not cool.
That’s one way to interpret it. The 105 
days refers to the amount of time between 
nominations for the executive branch agen-
cy heads (see question 4), and the $1.5 
million is the approximate budget of the six agencies who did not have their head person approved until Aug. 4. Without an 
agency head in place, funds are not able to 
be used.
Agency heads are nominated by the six-
person executive committee, which consists of the Student Body president, vice presi-
dent, treasurer, Student Senate president, 
Senate pro tempore and Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee chairperson.
In order for the committee to hold meet-
ings, at least four of the six members must be present. In order to have a vote in the nomination process for any of the agency heads, members must be present for all can-didate interviews for the position(s) up for 
nomination. If the member misses even one 
interview, he or she is not allowed to cast a vote.
However, questions have surfaced re-
garding the constitutionality of the execu-tive committee because the three Senate members who sit on it are also allowed to vote on recommendations in Senate, a dou-ble-dipping effect that violates separation of 
powers. Padron-Rasines filed a petition to 
the UF Supreme Court on Sept. 18 regard-ing this.
Question 7 — So how 
come Access barely has any Greek members on their slate? Are they anti-Greek or something?
As of press time, the Alligator was un-
able to confirm or deny Greek affiliations of 
party members. 
But according to Sorority and Fraternity 
affairs: UF campus is 15 percent Greek.
Staff writers Ariana Figueroa, Caitlin 
Ostroff, Jordan McPherson and Emily Co-
chrane contributed to this report.A deeper look into Access and Impact
Beaty
Justin Ortiz                             BrowardValerie Rynearson                 District A (ZIP Codes 
32601, 32609, 32614)
Brooke Azzaro                        Franco Della Torre                Daniela Lozano                      Destin MurphyJeo Prakash                            Akil Reynolds                         Biswas Rijal                            Taisha F. Saintil                     
Courtney Thomas                 
N/A                                         District B (ZIP Codes 32603, 32605, 32606, 32653)Viet Doanvo                           Rick Garcia                             Pranav Reddy                                    Tyler Richards                       
David Rojas                            
Chase WertherN/A                 District C (ZIP Code 32607)Jacquelyn HozaDavid MillerGarrett Mulholland
Dallas Rawlins
Manny RutinelMatt Solomon            District D (ZIP Code 32608)Anthony J. BlackDwayne FletcherDJ FontenotHurara Khan
Yen Le            
Brittany MunyerPinal PatelMargaret PattersonLillian Rozsa
Ricardo SabaterJessica Valdes            Praveen VaranasiYuchen Wang            District E (All ZIP Codes not already mentioned)Reice ReidFamily HousingN/A
Graham
Tala El-GhaliHumePreston JonesJenningsNathan MoralesKeysRachel SternLakeside
Lexie Reid
MurphreeJasmine HaddawayRawlingsKassidy WallaceReid-Yulee-MalloryNick AzcarateSpringsNidhi Kalva
Tolbert
Kevin RiveraImpact Access
BeatyAnna BensoussanBrowardJackie PhillipsDistrict A (ZIP Codes 
32601, 32609, 32614)
Jenny ClementsAustin ChampouxMax KleinCarter LongSmith MeyersJason RichardsHaley SmithSusan Webster
Ben Weiner
Kylie WerkDistrict B (ZIP Codes 32603, 32605, 32606, 32653)Jake FelderJacob HallowayBriggs NounAvery Smith
Sean Titus
Wilson TrawickWill WorthDistrict C (ZIP Code 32607)Octavious BuieyAnthony CloseJordan Folkes
Kailey Kynast
Dakota StanfordRoshelle TwymonDistrict D (ZIP Code 32608)Kailyn AllenJana CaraccioloLea DauphinMelody Dickson
Nick Elder
Alex EverittJustin FusselEric KleinStirling NaberIsmael SyedGabriela ValentinCarrie WilkeyLuke WinterDistrict E (All ZIP Codes not already mentioned)Taylor Kennedy
Family Housing
Nicki Baldwin
GrahamSara DaouHumeDavid Enriquez
JenningsWayne SelogyKeysCole Gabriel
Lakeside
Omarely SpenceMurphreeJonathan FrishRawlingsEmily RobbReid-Yulee-MallorySara GoffSprings
Zach Kravetz
TolbertAmanda Grimacy
Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffVoting Locations
VOTESpring 2012
• Feb. 19, 2012: Will Muschamp en-dorsed Students Party vice presidential candidate Jesse Schmitt, a walk-on to the UF football team.
• Feb. 20, 2012: In response to the en-
dorsement, Unite Party threw away 
268 Alligator newspapers the next day.
• Feb. 22, 2012: Unite TJ Villamil (presi-dent), Sabine Justilien (vice president) and Juan Rodriguez (treasurer) win the executive ticket while Unite wins 31 of 50 Senate seats. Villamil and Justilien won their seats with just 50.27 percent of the vote
Fall 2012
• Sept. 6, 2012: A new Student Govern-ment party, the Swamp Party, had reg-istered for slating. It was viewed as a rebranding of Unite.
• Oct. 2, 2012: The UF Supreme Court 
ruled the Students Party could refer to 
Swamp as the former Unite Party, or any variation thereof, in campaign ma-terial. The decision was repealed Oct. 3.
• Oct. 3, 2012: The newly formed Swamp Party claimed 35 of 50 available Stu-dent Senate seats.
Spring 2013
• Feb. 8, 2013: Current Senate Pro Tem-pore Leah Miller — then a liaison be-tween Swamp Party and its fraternity house representatives — sent an email to 25 senators asking them to collect “I 
Voted” stickers and supply the party 
with a $250 check. Miller asked sena-tors to delete the email after, saying she didn’t want it on the record. After this request, Miller wrote “Sketchy, but do it!”
• Feb. 21, 2013: Swamp Party trio Christi-na Bonarrigo (president), Joselyn Rivas 
(vice president) and Jayce Victor (trea-
surer) win the executive ticket and the party claims 37 of 50 available seats.
• March 19, 2013: Leah Miller is appoint-ed as the District A senator.
• Fall 2013
• Oct. 2, 2013: Swamp claimed 48 sen-ate seats in the Fall election, with the other two seats being won by then Stu-
dents Party members Michael Christ 
(Murphree) and Rodolfo Perez-Cordero (District E).
Spring 2014
• Jan. 31, 2014: Longtime minority party and Swamp competitor Students Party decided not to run an executive ticket in the Spring 2014 election.
• Feb. 19, 2014: Swamp won all 50 Sen-
ate seats and the executive ticket in the 
Spring election, giving the party a ma-jority in the Senate chambers.
Fall 2014
• Oct. 1, 2014: In the Fall 2014 elections, the unopposed Swamp Party won 49 seats, losing only one to current Access Sen. Preston Jones, who ran as an inde-pendent for Hume Area.
• Oct. 28, 2014: Michael Christ, who did not re-run for his Murphree seat in the Fall 2014 election, is approved for a Senate seat representing graduate stu-dents.Spring 2015
• Jan. 28, 2015: Access Party announces its run for the SG Spring elections.
• Feb. 10, 2015: Sen. Michael Christ an-nounced the formation of an indepen-dent coalition, comprised of 18 former 
Swamp senators and three independent 
senators.
• Feb. 17, 2015: Both Access and Swamp participated in a debate hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council after two previous attempts at a debate. Access had accepted invitations to the previous debates while Swamp declined, citing scheduling conflicts.  
• Feb. 25, 2015: Joselin Padron-Rasines (Student Body president) and Kevin Doan (Student Body vice president) won the Spring 2015 election by 124 votes. Nicholas Carre (Student Body treasurer) won by 484 votes. Access won 27 of the 50 Senate seats that night, with 23 going to Swamp.
• March 31, 2015: Susan Webster was 
re-inserted into District A after losing 
her College of Liberal Arts and Sciences seat in the Spring election.
• April 21, 2015: The first seven agency heads were approved by Senate, leav-ing six vacant agency heads and a com-prehensive statute reform ad-hoc com-mittee was formed.
Summer 2015  
• May 26, 2015: Supervisor of elections nominee Sarah Winter rejected twice by Swamp due to volunteering for her friend Jason Richards (Swamp, District A) the Fall of her freshman year.
• July 28, 2015: Despite conflict, seven 
sets of Student Body Statute code re-
forms are approved by the Student Sen-ate.
• Aug. 4, 2015: After 105 days between nominations, the final six executive branch agency heads are approved.
Fall 2015 
• Aug. 25, 2015: SG President Joselin Padron-Rasines vetoed revisions to the 500 and 700 codes, citing unconsti-tutionality and a lack of separation of powers in regard to the executive com-
mittee.
• Aug. 26, 2015: Sen. Chris Boyett said 
he decided to form Impact Party, along with Susan Webster, Saneh Ste. Claire and Blake Murphy, during the Summer, after the 105 days it took to confirm agency heads.
• Sept. 1, 2015: Impact and Access regis-ter to run candidates for Fall elections. 
Swamp does not register.
• Sept. 1, 2015: Boyett addressed the 
formation of his new party in Senate chambers.
• Sept. 2-8, 2015: 579 students registered to run, or slate, with a party. Of these, 468 chose to run with Impact while 109 chose to run with Access. Although two candidates initially slated as indepen-
dents, neither wound up running.
• Sept. 18, 2015: Padron-Rasines filed a 
petition with UF’s Supreme Court ad-dressing the constitutionality of the cur-rent SG executive committee.TimelineTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted. ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
Historic Duck Pond: Vintage two-story 3bed/2bath available now. This clean, spa-cious home is beautifully restored! Walk to Downtown, Innovation Square, or UF. $1595/mo. Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395. email: 217@cozygator.com    10-1-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
GOATS - $125 - $250SHEEP - $200 - $300
Call Michael 352-316-2427     9-29-15-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
1996 Nissan Altima GXE, 5 Speed
195,000 miles Runs great, cold AC
$680 Call 352 262-6237    9-30-15-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14We are a local Christian Preschool hiring a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
AllChem Industries is looking for an accounts payable / admin assistant. Three afternoons per week 1.30-5.30pm, one of the afternoons must be Friday. Up to six month position with potential to continue depending upon the needs of the business. Send your resume to rp0709@allchem.com.    9-29-15-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-ing bar/deli help. Must have reliable transp. Saturday availability required. Applications now being accepted at the 2327 NW 13th street location.    10-5-15-5-14
Work for Subway!Are you looking for a great job with flexible schedules, regular opportunities for raises and opportunities for advancement? If so a job at Subway might be perfect you. We are now accepting applications from friendly people. Simply email subway4gainesville@yahoo.com and write "I'm interested!" in the subject line. Directions will follow via email.   10-5-15-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 10/5-10/8 from 5-7 p.m. each day.  Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu or call 392-2010 to register.      10-5-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 23 Rides 24 PetsAntonio Callaway named SEC Freshman of the Week
UF freshman wide receiver Antonio Callaway earned the Southeastern 
Conference Freshman of the Week honor for his performance in Florida's 28-27 win against T ennessee on Saturday, the league announced Monday. Callaway scored the team's game-winning 63-yard touchdown. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsCoach Becky Burleigh is stressing the importance of improving the Florida soccer team's communication and discipline. Read the story on pg. 14. By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
It takes 11 players on the football field to make a play.
But on some of those plays there’s one player who be-
comes the highlight of the play. 
That was the case when Florida wide receiver Antonio 
Callaway took quarterback Will Grier’s pass and turned it into a 63-yard touchdown to complete UF’s 28-27 come-back win over Tennessee on Saturday.
But while Callaway has been getting much of the praise 
for his touchdown, not much has been made of the block that sprung Callaway along the sidelines.
And it was delivered by another wide receiver: Brandon 
Powell.
Powell’s block took out the last two Volunteers defend-
ers impeding Callaway’s path to the endzone. Powell had a nice game of his own, as he had five catches for 64 yards and a touchdown against the Volunteers, but his block on the 4th-and-14 play dwarfs what else he did during the 
game.
“I just wanted to make a play, happened to make a key 
block,” Powell said. “I didn’t expect it to be a touchdown. 
I was just trying to get any block and net more yards. 
Luckily it was a big block that set him up for a touchdown. 
That’s all I was trying to do. Make big plays.”
On the play, which UF coach Jim McElwain called 
“Train right, Jill, Big Ben in,” Powell was lined up next to TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore wide receiver Brandon Powell runs with the ball during Florida's 28-27 win against T ennessee 
on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Sophomore wide receiver praised for block on touchdown
MEN'S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
UF’s biggest problem wasn’t putting, chip-
ping or driving at the Golf Club of Tennessee in Kingston Springs over the weekend.
In fact, the Gators’ issues weren’t skill re-
lated at all.
Head coach JC Deacon said Monday that 
what hurt the men’s golf team most at the DICK’s Sporting Goods Collegiate Challenge Cup was its lack of mental toughness. 
“You know, it’s the mentally strong that 
survive, and . . . we just didn’t have that,” Deacon said. 
But after finishing poorly and taking 7th 
place in the stroke play portion of the com-petition on Saturday, Deacon and the team rallied around the Florida football team’s win, using the comeback as inspiration for Sunday’s 18-hole match play contest against 
Georgia Tech. 
Later Saturday night, Deacon addressed 
the team.
“We had probably the best meeting as a 
team that I’ve had since I’ve been here, and 
we really established what we want to look like. 
“The players were a big part of the meet-
ing, talking about what they wanted to look like, what they wanted to represent, what it meant to them to play for the Gator nation,” he said.  
After the meeting, Deacon was thorough-
ly impressed by the team’s performance on Sunday morning. 
“Our guys were focused, they were de-
termined, they were confident, they trusted each other. And we went out and beat a re-ally good team, in Georgia Tech, in match UF focused on improving 
team's mental toughness By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Six hundred eighty days.
That’s how long Florida’s volleyball 
team went without losing to a Southeastern Conference opponent before stepping into the O’Connell Center on Sunday.
The defending SEC champions were 
pummeled by Kentucky, 3-1, snapping a 23-game win streak against conference foes that dated back to Nov. 15, 2013.
While the loss was unfamiliar territory 
for the Gators, coach Mary Wise said it may have been a good thing for her team.
“You learn so much more from a loss 
than a win,” she said. “Sometimes winning disguises the weaknesses we knew.”
Though UF entered the contest ranked 
fifth in the nation, its flaws were exposed and exploited by the Wildcats.
Senior outside hitter Ziva Recek is play-ing for the Slovenia national team in Eu-
rope, and sophomore outside hitter Carli 
Snyder is still returning to form following 
an ankle injury.
Junior right side hitter Alex Holston isn’t 
producing the offensive numbers she did last year, granted she’s been asked to play a different role this year.
“We’re not asking her to do the same 
thing,” Wise said. “Alex’s game in terms of what she’s giving us serving, blocking and defense…she is a more all around player (and) a better player today than she was a year ago.”
But Wise has still been challenged when 
deciding the lineup and changing game Florida volleyball remains 
optimistic despite SEC defeat 
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15 SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15“I just wanted to make a play, happened to make a key 
block. I didn't expect it to be a touchdown.”
Brandon Powell
UF wide receiver
“You learn so much more from a loss 
than a win.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coach14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
THE GATORS ADDED 15 
FRESHMEN THIS SEASON.
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
After the Florida soccer team had 
its first multi-game road trip against 
Southeastern Conference opponents, coach Becky Burleigh realized that some coaching adjustments needed 
to be made. 
The No. 9 Gators (8-3, 2-2 SEC) 
traveled on the road Friday and Sun-day to take on Vanderbilt and No. 13 
Auburn, respectively. Both games ended in 3-2 score lines, with the former favoring the Gators.
“The beauty of losing is that it 
sort of uncovers some of the things 
that winning can hide,” Burleigh 
said. 
“The reality of our team is that 
I’m kind of coaching half this group for the very first time, and I need to find better and different ways to get the most out of each player.”
Burleigh said Monday she wants 
to maximize the potential of every 
player on the team and really look at how she’s coaching the players, of 
which 15 are freshmen.
“There’s some things tactically 
that we can change,” Burleigh said. 
“I think we need to be a little 
more disciplined, give up less set 
pieces, give up less where we kind 
of dive in and get a little anxious but those are all things that we can work on.”
Florida’s loss to Auburn came 
when the Tigers scored off a corner kick in the final 30 seconds of the game.
Burleigh said communication 
could’ve helped in that late-game situation when multiple Gators tried to make a play on the ball.
Both of UF’s goalkeepers, fresh-
man Kaylan Marckese and redshirt junior Valerie Tysinger, saw action over the weekend and Burleigh said 
that the position battle is still ongo-
ing. 
The Gators have given up 16 
goals this season, equaling the amount of goals the team conceded in the entire 2014 regular season, but Burleigh knows there is going to be some teachable moments with this group of players.
“It was a challenging weekend for us in terms of travel and the first time we’ve had a multi-game week-end like that for these younger play-ers,” Burleigh said. 
The team will be focused on play-
ing together as a unit, but Burleigh 
said she is looking for more intensity 
from her team with an effort level that can remain consistent through multiple games.
“We still have a lot that we can 
get better at,” Burleigh said. 
“Do we have some stumbling 
blocks along the way? Yeah, for sure. But I think that’s all part of what this 
team’s journey is going to be.”
UF soccer focusing on improved communication, disciplinestrategy. 
“We’re still dealing with readdressing our 
lineup,” she said. “I mean the reality is that 
we haven’t been with the full lineup since the second weekend and that’s just a fact.”
With her lineup in flux of late, Wise ac-
knowledged that the strength of the Gators’ offense lies in its middle blockers: Rhamat Alhassan and Simone Antwi.
“We are at our best when we can get 
offensive production out of our middles,” Wise said. “Our first contact be that off serve-receive or in transition did not allow us to do that yesterday.”
That was one weakness Wise said was 
revealed — Florida’s serve-pass game.
Without accurate passes off the oppo-
nent’s serve, senior setter Mackenzie Dagos-tino couldn’t give UF’s outside hitters and middle blockers good sets.“Mackenzie Dagostino was at such a dis-
advantage when she was having to chase balls down and us not give her as good of an opportunity to set her hitters,” Wise said.
Dagostino echoed the same thoughts af-
ter the game but said she could’ve tossed up some better sets.
“We didn’t pass as well as we usually do, 
and that made it difficult to run an offense,” Dagostino said.  “I have to do my part to make sure I’m putting up the most killable sets for my hitters.”
The Gators (9-2, 1-1 SEC) won’t have 
much time to work on their shortcomings, as they take on Missouri (12-1) in Columbia on Wednesday at 8 p.m.
One Tiger that presents a threat to Flor-
ida is junior outside hitter Carly Kan. The 5-9 Honolulu native’s 4.70 kills per set ranks ninth best in the nation.
“I had the privilege of coaching with Car-
ly Kan on the world university games,” Wise said. “For a player of her stature she’s not gonna win the height battle, but man does she win the heart battle.”
The good news for the Gators as they go 
up against Kan and the Tigers is that Flori-da swept Missouri a year ago in their only matchup of the season.play.”
Of the five matchups, junior 
Ryan Orr and freshman Jorge Gar-cia won, while freshmen Gordon Neale and Sam Horsfield finished all square with their respective op-ponents.
Neale made a big statement in his first college tournament, tying Carpet Capital Collegiate champion Jacob Joiner. 
Deacon admitted he had pur-
posely paired Neale with Joiner to give him a challenge.
“I wanted to see … what he 
could do in kind of a big moment,” 
Deacon said.
“He’s so good at golf, and I’m 
really, really excited for his future. 
He’s a hard worker. He wants to get better. He listens. … We’re very, 
very lucky to have Gordon Neale.” 
Deacon went on to commend the 
improvement Garcia showed from 
Saturday to Sunday. 
After making a triple bogey on 
the 14th hole Saturday, the fresh-
man was having trouble getting 
back into the right mindset. 
“When I caught up to him at 
the 15th fairway he was still talk-
ing about it. That’s just is not ac-
ceptable at this level, because guys 
are so good that, if you can’t ... let frustration go, they’re gonna whoop you.
“And I’m only singling him out 
because the comeback I saw in him yesterday was amazing.”
Garcia came out on Sunday and 
beat his GT opponent, Chris Pete-
fish, by a four-hole margin. 
Deacon was proud to see such 
strong resilience out of the group af-
ter the adversity on Saturday. 
“Golf is just such a hard game,” 
Deacon said.
“If you don’t play it, it’s hard to 
understand. It looks like guys are just out there swinging a club and laughing and smiling. But over the long haul, it beats you up.
“Tough stretches in sports hap-
pen. We just gotta keep fighting through it … and keep the work eth-ic … and we’re gonna be just fine."TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Alligator File Photo
Ryan Orr swings during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
GOLF,  from pg13UF's coach praised team's resilience
Callaway.
But while the freshman re-
ceiver’s route took him more 
towards the middle of the field, 
Powell’s route took him towards the sidelines.
The play happened to work 
out perfectly as Callaway was able to draw three defenders his way when he made the catch. And Powell happened to be at the right place at the right time 
to free the Miami native. 
McElwain has repeatedly giv-
en credit to more than one guy 
on a single given play, and Pow-
ell’s block caught his eye.
He echoed those same sen-
timents after the game when 
talking about how important Powell’s effort was on the fresh-
man’s touchdown.
“Brandon Powell, you know, 
got them peeling back on that 
and got in the way of those two 
guys who had angles on him 
that let him score there at the end,” McElwain said. “To me, Brandon probably had more to do on that play because he had 
to clear out the middle more 
than anyone else on the field there. That’s great to see.”
Giving up his body and put-
ting in the extra effort has helped the Gators, who rounded out the AP Top 25 rankings on Sunday, get off to their 4-0 start. 
However, there was a point in 
the game against the Volunteers where Florida feared it might have been without Powell. 
After scoring his touchdown 
with 4:09 left to play to pull the Gators within striking distance at 27-21, Powell went down with what he called a cramp on the left side of his body.
But the sophomore was able 
to fight through it to stay on the field and make arguably the big-
gest play of his career.  
However, Powell said he 
didn’t realize how big his block 
was until after the game when 
he got another chance to look 
at it.  
“I came to the sideline and 
everybody was saying ‘your block helped us score a touch-down,’” Powell said. “Then I 
saw it on the TV right after the 
game and I was like ‘oh yeah, that block was big.’”
Callaway’s catch is going 
to be remembered for years to come, but had Powell not 
made the block, things might’ve 
turned out differently for the Gators and for the Volunteers on Saturday.FOOTBALL,  from pg13Powell didn't realize 
how crucial his block 
was until after the win
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
UF setter Mackenzie Dagostino celebrates with teammate Rhamat Alhassan during 
Florida's 3-1 loss to Kentucky on Sunday in the O'Connell Center. 
VOLLEY,  from p13Florida's loss to UK exposed weaknesses in the serve-pass game“To me, Brandon probably 
had more to do on that 
play because he had to 
clear out the middle more 
than anyone else on the 
field there.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
“W e didn't pass as well as we usually 
do, and that made it difficult to run an 
offense.”
Mackenzie Dagostino
UF setter16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
