By Emily Cochrane 
and Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org,
apentz@alligator.org
The ﬁ  rst time Chris Crary sat in the stands 
for a Gator football game, he was 3 years old.
After the game, he remembers running 
around the house, saying “I Gator.”
“That’s when I knew,” he said. “I was go-
ing to be a Florida Gator.”
Saturday night, Crary, now 18, leaned 
over the ﬁ  rst row of the student section. 
With blue face paint rimming his eyes 
and mouth and orange streaking down his 
cheeks, the computer engineering freshman was still in disbelief that he and his friends were standing in the front row for their ﬁ  rst game as students.
Crary was one of 90,227 people packed 
into The Swamp as the Gators ushered in the Jim McElwain era of Florida football with a 61-13 win against New Mexico State Univer-sity.
While the victory was sweet for McEl-
wain, he said the support from the fans was even sweeter.
“The fans, man, were awesome,” McEl-
wain said. “They were into it. And what I liked, too, is that they were knowledgeable. They knew when to kind of get going.”
McElwain gave the fans good reason to get 
going.
The Gators’ passing game came to life, 
with quarterbacks Treon Harris and Will Gri-er combining for 381 yards and four touch-downs.
Fourteen different players caught passes, 
a testament that McElwain isn’t afraid to spread the ball around.The defense limited New Mexico State to 
just 200 yards of offense — including a 1-yard loss in the second half.“They energized us from Gator Walk on,” 
McElwain said of the fans. “That was a great, great crowd.”
It was an almost unprecedented crowd, as 
well.
In 25 home games during the Will Mus-champ era, attendance surpassed 90,000 just 10 times, with each occurrence coming against either Florida State University or a 
Southeastern Conference opponent.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 11 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
UF football utilizing tight ends
The group had seven catches and two 
touchdowns in Saturday’s season opener,pg 13
Last day for UF students to run with SG politi-
cal parties
It’s located in the Reitz Union, pg. 3
UF gallery shows alumni exhibition
The ﬁ  rst-ever exhibition will feature 26 artists, pg. 5Historians dress as Reconstruction Era people for event
About 50 people attended, pg. 4
Emily Cochrane/Alligator Staff
Faces painted in orange and blue, Erik T eriele (left), a UF mechanical engineering freshman, and Chris Crary, a UF computer engineering freshman, perform the Gator Chomp during the Gators’ ﬁ  rst game of the season. The 18-year-olds didn’t expect to get the seats they were assigned, and T eriele said they were freaking out when they realized how close they would be to the ﬁ  eld.
AN ELECTRIC OPENER
ELEVEN STUDENTS 
WERE EJECTED FROM 
THE STADIUM.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police are investigat-
ing the burglary of a New Mexico 
State University charter bus used by football staff during Saturday’s foot-ball game. 
Stolen items include laptops, 
headphones and a small amount of cash, UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said.
“I think all of us would have 
gladly traded our suitcases being sto-len, because we could have replaced pants and shoes and toiletries, but this one was tough to lose,” said Mario Moccia, the athletics director for NMSU, who attended the game.  While police presence is high on game days, Barber said the incident 
seemed to go unnoticed until after 
the game.
“The ofﬁ  cers were inside the sta-
dium — this happened outside the stadium,” Barber said.Barber said the university is col-
lecting reports and following leads in 
hopes of recovering the stolen items. 
The worst part, Moccia said, is losing work that took hours to complete. He said a deputy athletics director lost student-athlete ﬁ  les and game contracts, among other documents.
“I know he was beside himself — 
not for his personal belongings, just the work that will have to be recre-
ated,” he said. 
Moccia said he believes the 
driver was gone when it happened. 
Sara Costa, a dispatcher for Alltour America Transportation, said the company is still investigating what happened on its bus.
“We’re getting a statement from 
our driver, and until then we can’t make any further comment about that,” she said. The burglary came after a 61-13 loss to UF, but Moccia said the team is staying positive.  
“Our team had a great experi-
ence, except for the ball game,” he said. “I think when these things 
happen, the school unfairly gets the 
brunt of the criticism, when really it should fall on the criminals.”
      During the football game, UPD 
ejected 17 people and arrested six others. Of the 17 people who were ejected from the stadium, 11 were students, and another four students 
were arrested, according to a police 
report. 
Intoxication is given as the reason 
for six ejections, followed by four ejections for disorderly conduct, two for alcohol possession, two for be-ing in the wrong section, two for not having a ticket and one for smoking. Of the six arrests, four were listed as 
underage possession of alcohol and 
two as trespassing after a warning.  New Mexico State University bus robbed, 17 people ejected13  NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA  61
SEE FANS,  PAGE 8McElwain era of to fast startSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-
tidisciplinary clinic at the UF 
Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, dat-ing and sexual violence. The 
program provides free and con-
fidential legal representation, 
mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns 
litigate issues such as immigra-
tion and restraining orders for the protection against domestic violence. The program also has a social worker who specializes in intimate partner violence and provides counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 352-273-0805 or email drake@law.ufl.edu.
Free Tuesday Night Stand-Up 
ComedyFree stand-up comedy fea-tures UF students and alumni, as well as Gainesville locals, every Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at Market Street Pub and Cabaret in downtown. The show fea-tures professional comedians and amateur comics tearing up 
the stage. Feeling funny? Show 
up before 9 p.m. and sign up for 
our comedy open mic. Comedy 
workshop at 8 p.m. is hosted by local pros. Visit facebook.com/
gainesvillecomedyshowcase.
Engagement with Cuba
The UF Center for Latin 
American Studies, UF Cuba 
Program, UF International 
Center and the Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences in-vite you to attend a workshop on academic engagement with 
Cuba on Sept. 29 from 3 p.m. to 
5 p.m. at the UF International 
Center. The workshop is free and open to the public, but registration is required. 
To reserve your seat, please 
visit EventBrite.com (search: 
Workshop on Academic Engagement with Cuba).
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club will meet today at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1031 of the Entomology Building, located at 970 Natural Area Drive. The club is open to everyone. For details about Talking Gators, go to: talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. 
The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience in 
which members are empow-ered to develop communication 
and leadership skills resulting 
in greater self-confidence and 
personal growth.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 11
HIGH  88° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou  Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
The shortest day for students to choose 
which  political party to run with turned out 
to have the largest number of candidates Fri-day.
UF Supervisor of Elections Sam Book 
wrote in an email that 76 students chose to run with Impact Party, 21 with Access Party and one person chose to run as an indepen-dent for the Fall 2015 Student Government elections. In total, 238 students have quali-fied for SG elections, he said — 190 students chose to run with Impact, 46 with Access and two as independents.
Students will not be able to run with ma-
jority party Swamp Party because the party did not register for the upcoming elections.
SG will continue the interview process 
today from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. for students looking to qualify for the elections to fill 50 Student Senate seats based on the student’s residential locations.
Students can register with Access, Impact 
or as an independent candidate. To qualify, students must be full-time and have their Gator 1 Cards, Book said.
Jackie Phillips said she chose to run with 
Impact because she wanted to join a party that remembered the students.
“I am not Greek,” the 19-year-old UF fam-
ily, youth and community sciences sopho-more said. “The party’s not just about where 
you come from, but about making a differ-
ence.”
Justin Ortiz, a UF applied physiology and 
kinesiology freshman, decided to run as a candidate for Access.
“I wanted to make a difference,” the 
18-year-old said.He said he will be able to do that with 
Access.
Students must prove their residency on 
Thursday by providing either certified mail delivered by postal service, an Alachua County voter registration card, an original copy of their lease, an original copy of utility 
or cable bill prior to qualifying, an original 
copy of a promissory note or lease from a fra-ternity or sorority house, an original copy of their homeowner’s insurance, or an original copy of a warranty deed.
Both parties will notify candidates if they 
have been chosen by Thursday.
Last day for UF students to run with SG political party4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested two UF students 
Thursday night after they reportedly had 
drugs and paraphernalia in their dorm room.  
About 10:20 p.m. Thursday, UPD and 
Gainesville Fire Rescue’s 
Hazardous Materials Re-
sponse Team found a leak-ing propane torch in Liam A. Gonzalez’s and Steven L. Breiter’s dorm room in Rawlings Hall after a resi-dent smelled gas, said UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Bar-ber. Authorities discovered 
gear commonly used to smoke and store dabs 
— a concentrated, THC-based oil, according to a police report. They also discovered glass pipes, orange-and-blue grinders and rolling papers, according to the report.The students, both 18, also had a bottle of 
Fireball Whiskey and nine Blue Moon beers, according to the report. Both are listed in the UF directory as students.
“At the moment, my attorney has advised 
me that it’s probably best not to speak about the situation,” Gonzalez said. 
Breiter could not be contacted as of press 
time. Police arrested Gon-zalez and Breiter, each on 14 charges for the posses-sion of drug parapherna-lia, two charges of mari-juana possession and two charges for the possession of alcohol by a minor.  Bre-
iter received an additional 
charge for fraud after au-
thorities reportedly found a fake Rhode Is-
land driver’s license, according to the report. Authorities took them to the Alachua County Jail, where they were released Friday after-noon on their own recognizance.Students arrested in dormBy Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
After about an hour of business decisions 
at Friday’s Board of Trustees retreat, chairman Steven Scott congratulated UF President Kent Fuchs on a move he said was moral.
He was referring to Fuchs’ Aug. 3 decision 
to increase the minimum hourly wage for UF staff from $10 to $12 an hour. Scott said he thought the decision was a wise move.
“Some of these people make our lives very 
possible,” Scott said. “Whether it’s the trash, or the cleaning, or the laundry or whatever else they may do, they deserve a fair break and they deserve a voice. Much to my sur-prise, Dr. Fuchs became their voice.”
Fuchs said he had been discussing the in-
crease with senior leadership for a while and sent out an email to UF faculty and staff, mak-ing it official at the beginning of August.
The newly raised wage will be effective 
Jan. 1, in addition to a 2.5-percent merit-based salary increase for eligible faculty and staff, Scott said.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said the pay 
increase will affect about 450 employees.
Fuchs said all the senior leadership with 
whom he discussed the pay increase were en-thusiastic about it.
“We appreciate your support for it,” he 
told the board. “It’s important.”
Scott said he’d like to work to increase 
graduate student stipends next. He said UF’s graduate student stipends are 25 to 35 percent lower than the rest of the country’s universi-ties.
The day’s scheduled meetings went by 
quickly and without issue, and the board unanimously approved changing the name of the old president’s house to University House 
to distinguish it from the new Dasburg Presi-
dent’s House. The board also decided to grant tenure to 13 newly hired faculty.
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines said there has been a national conver-sation about increasing minimum wage.
“It’s nice to see we’re making a positive 
change in the lives of our staff,” she said.Fuchs raises minimum wage
Gonzalez
 Breiter
ABOUT 50 PEOPLE CAME 
TO THE EVENT.
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
David Riker swung a ball and 
chain threateningly at two couples.
“I can put you to work,” said 
the city marshall, peering over his wire-framed glasses at the women’s 
shorts. “Why are you wearing your 
husband’s pants?”
It was a question valid for a law 
enforcement agent in 1868.
Riker’s performance as city mar-
shall was part of the Reconstruction Living History event at Dudley Farm Historic State Park, located at 18730 W. Newberry Road, on Friday and 
Saturday. Volunteers, including 
Riker, dressed in era clothing and re-enacted the lives of farmers, sol-diers and storekeepers as part of the farm’s third annual living history Reconstruction Era event.
“It gives you a way to present 
history in a way that people will re-member,” said Riker, who has been 
a living historian for 30 years. “If 
you experience the sights, sounds, smells, and touch and feels of some-thing, you’re gonna remember it a 
lot better than reading it in a book.”
At least 15 volunteers came each 
day to act as if they lived in the Re-
construction Era. Women wore bon-nets and aprons while men worked in the stores, on the fields and with the animals.  While portraying char-acters of the past, they challenged modern visitors on their clothing 
choices, gadgets and hairstyles.
“We want them to realize that 
it is a totally different time,” Riker 
said. “We aren’t going to be rude about it, but we are going to be di-rect about it.”
“This is so neat,” said one 
woman, despite being criticized for wearing capris.
About 40 or 50 people came to 
the event, said Sandra Cashes, a park services specialist, which she said is average for a living history event. The farm hosts other living history events from different time periods.  
“We are able to show history 
and try to make it alive for visitors,” 
Cashes said. “And that’s what is im-
portant to me, to be able to bring visitors in.”Historians dress as Reconstruction Era people for event
Danielle Veenstra
Val Leitner, 36, washes homemade biscuit batter off her hands in a water bowl during the living history Re-
construction Era event at Dudley Farm Historic State Park on Friday.   SANTA FE
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thanks to her grandmother, Kelli McGill 
learned to sing before she could talk.
Having found a love for singing, the Santa 
Fe College organizational management senior 
now dreams of singing on Broadway.
This past weekend, McGill, 21, along with 
other Gainesville singers and musicians, was one step closer to Broadway as she shared the stage with Broadway veteran Jennifer Hol-liday, a Grammy- and Tony Award-winning singer and actress.
“As soon as I heard she was coming here, I 
was like ‘Oh my gosh, this is gonna be amaz-ing, and I really want to be a part of it,’” she 
said.
The former lead actress from “Dreamgirls,” a 1981 musical that earned her awards and 
fame, said it was an honor to perform Friday and Saturday at the Santa Fe Fine Arts Hall.
“It’s just been a beautiful and warm experi-
ence,” she said Friday after the show. “I’m just so glad I came, and I was so surprised about just the reception from everyone.”
Her performance, part of the college’s Mas-
ter Artist Series, was initially a solo until Alora Haynes, chairperson for Santa Fe’s fine arts program, suggested accompaniment by local choirs and Santa Fe students.
“I started thinking of her almost a year 
ago,” Haynes said. “I really wanted the com-munity to be addressed and celebrated.”
Both Holliday’s agent and Haynes declined 
to say how much Holliday was paid for the per-formance. For Michelle Weiland, 18, participa-tion was spontaneous.“I showed up on Tuesday of this week,” the 
Santa Fe zoology freshman said on Saturday, laughing. “And they’re like, ‘Here’s the music. 
If you wanna join in, go for it.’ And so that’s 
what I did.”
After the opening performances each night, 
which featured only Santa Fe singers and choirs from three local churches, Holliday stepped onto the stage in a sequin dress, hold-ing a microphone.  
“Hello, beautiful people of Gainesville,” she 
said to the crowd Saturday night.Holliday performed a medley of songs, 
some covers and some originals, pausing be-tween each one to share bits of her life’s story 
with the audience, including an attempt at sui-
cide on her 30th birthday.
“This Jennifer you’re witnessing tonight is 
probably the happiest Jennifer I’ve been in a while,” she said.
With each portion of her life she divulged, 
Holliday, now 54, transitioned into related songs, finishing with arguably her most no-table song, “And I am Telling You I’m Not Go-
ing.”
For the final performance of “I Believe I 
Can Fly,” Holliday brought out the choir, a live 
band and dozens of singers from Santa Fe.
“This has been an absolute dream come 
true for me,” Weiland said. “As ironic as it may sound, it definitely felt like a family out there.” Santa Fe singers, local choirs perform with Tony-award winner
“This Jennifer you’re witnessing tonight 
is probably the happiest Jennifer I’ve 
been in a while.”
Jennifer Holliday
award-winning singer and actressTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Muddy Buddy
Bella, a 1 1/2-year-old border collie, swims at Squirrel Ridge Park on 
Monday. Her owner, 24-year-old middle-school agriculture teacher Anna Eppinger, said she decided to bring Bella to the park on Labor Day because the dog usually stays home alone while Eppinger works. 
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Authorities arrested a UF student Satur-
day afternoon after she reportedly used a 
false ID and resisted arrest.
At about 5 p.m. Saturday, Savannah J. 
Gribbins, 20, reportedly held a can of Natu-
ral Light beer while standing in the 2000 
block of Museum Road, according to an ar-rest report.An officer from the Division of Alcohol-
ic Beverages and Tobacco, a division of a 
Florida regulatory agency responsible for li-
censing businesses, collecting taxes and en-forcing laws in the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry, questioned her age and asked for an ID. She then handed him an ID with someone else’s name on it, according to the report.
The officer found her real ID in the same 
wallet, and Gribbins said that she didn’t 
want to answer questions, according to the report.
As the officer filed a re-
port, Gribbins reportedly 
grabbed her ID and ran 
down the street.
The officer caught up 
and struggled with Grib-bins before bringing her back to the patrol car, ac-
cording to the report.
Another officer noticed Gribbins break 
free from the left side of her handcuffs and attempt to remove the right side, at which point the officers struggled with Gribbins 
once more.
Gribbins is listed as a UF student in the 
directory, but could not be reached for com-
ment.  
Police charged Gribbins with underage 
possession of alcohol, fraud, resisting an of-ficer with violence and battery of an officer. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail where she was released Sunday after-
noon on her own recognizance.UF student arrested with fake ID after resisting officerTHE FIRST-EVER EXHIBITION WILL 
FEATURE 26 ARTISTS.
By Asia Mckenzie
Alligator Contributing Writer
There will be a platinum-covered plantain inside 
University Gallery’s first-ever alumni exhibition.
The exhibition will be held at the University Gallery, 
located on Southwest 13th Street in Building B of the 
Fine Arts complex, from today until Oct. 8. The exhibi-
tion will feature 26 artists, who are all graduates of the 
UF School of Art and Art History.
Richard Heipp, a UF professor at the School of Art 
and Art History, said he planned the event to celebrate the gallery’s 50th anniversary.   
“This is one of the most complicated and com-
prehensive shows we’ve done in University Gallery,” Heipp said. 
Heipp said planning the exhibit was a huge under-
taking because some of the pieces, which came from around the world,  are large and almost reach the ceil-
ing. “There’s one piece that actually came from Beijing 
to New York to us,” he said. “There’s work from Cali-fornia. There’s work from Texas. There’s work from North Carolina.  And it all had to be shipped here.”
Kelly Hernandez, a 21-year-old UF fine arts senior 
with an emphasis in painting, said she is excited to go to the exhibit.
It shows current art students possible post-graduate 
career opportunities, she said.  
“I know that we’ve had a lot of great artists come 
out of UF,” Hernandez said. “And I am excited to see what they’ve been doing the last couple of years and 
where their careers have gone, so then I can kind of see 
where I am going, too.”UF gallery shows alumni exhibition
By Katelyn Vogt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Study Edge and Smokin’Notes 
can score students good grades on upcoming exams — plus free drinks.
Both companies are hosting an 
event for staff to meet with students 
at 101 Cantina, located next to Mo-
chi on West University Avenue, on 
Thursday from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
The collaboration gives staff the 
opportunity to meet with students 
outside the classroom, said Nicole Wampole, chief operating officer at Study Edge.The event offers free cover for 
101 Cantina and free pizza. 
There will be complimentary 
shots every hour and unlimited rounds of beer for students 21 and older. The first 100 members will get a liquor drink ticket, Wampole said.
Students can pick up event 
bands at Study Edge before the event or Thursday night at 101 Can-tina, she said. They must be current 
Study Edge members or donate past 
Smokin’Notes packets for recycling.
UF chemical engineering senior 
Eran del Castillo said she doesn’t think the event is surprising be-cause Study Edge sessions are al-ready like parties.
“I’m sort of expecting something 
wild to happen,” the 20-year-old said.
But Gerard Dorve-Lewis, 22, 
said he has used Study Edge before and doesn’t think the party makes sense.
“Once you bring alcohol into the 
equation, it kind of makes it more weird,” the UF nutritional sciences 
senior said.
Zach Stepp, a Study Edge math, 
physics and statistics study expert, 
said the event lets students know their study experts are available.
“It shows we’re around, and 
we’re here to help, and we enjoy what we do,” the 35-year-old said.Study Edge, Smokin’Notes celebrate“This is one of the most complicated and 
comprehensive shows we’ve done in University 
Gallery.” 
Richard Heipp
UF professor
Social will offer free drinks
Gribbins
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnEarlier this year, Forbes published an article titled 
“Facebook Was The One Network People Used Less In 2014.” In the article, author Parmy Olson noted a 
worldwide decline in Facebook usage and observed 
that “Facebook has become more of a passive hub for 
underlying social connections than a place to actively share our thoughts…(people) often only check in for short peri-
ods anyway, leaving little time to do more than browse and 
maybe ‘like’ a photo or two.”
If you pay attention to how you or your friends and fam-
ily use social media, odds are you’ve observed this as well. Facebook is just something we “do” now. In our classrooms, 
our offices and even our cars, Facebook has evolved — or 
devolved, depending on your take on the situation — into a mindless, drone-like activity. We’ve all witnessed people scroll through Facebook for minutes at a time without actu-
ally sharing or posting anything, instead content to look at 
identical pictures of orange-and-blue-clad classmates at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on game day.
Is this a healthy, productive use of our time? Probably 
not. Do we at the Alligator have a preferable, more useful 
alternative? Not really.
For better or for worse, most who would like to quit Face-
book can’t at this point — it’s become too pervasive. For 
students involved in extracurricular activities, Facebook is 
all but a must-have tool; getting updates on meetings, re-
sponsibilities and constantly changing information are but a few of the benefits of joining a group on Facebook. To quit Facebook is to remove your eyes and ears from your group efforts.
So what is the solution to mindless Facebook surfing? At 
the risk of appearing corny, mindfulness. Given how easy it is to browse Facebook, it’s not all that far-fetched to assume many of us don’t even realize we’re doing it sometimes. 
Pausing to take in your surroundings has long been recom-
mended as an effective meditative tool. Now that we have entertainment devices in our pockets that can be used at a moment’s notice, it is worth considering perhaps we don’t need to be entertained at every single period of boredom 
that may arise. Being aware of the problem is the first step 
to rectifying it.
Successfully navigating Facebook is a genuinely tough 
proposition. As convenient as it is, its usefulness is dwarfed 
in comparison to the ease with which one can get lost in it 
when bored or procrastinating. The lack of engagement dis-cussed in Olson’s article is a double-edged sword: On the one hand, using Facebook for less time ostensibly means people are doing something other than using Facebook, which is 
itself a positive. On the other hand, the time spent on Face-
book consists of scrolling through and liking a picture or two, accomplishing nothing more than firing off neurons and stimulating vaguely understood pleasure centers in our 
heads. If we hope to be better, productive individuals in the 
Internet age, managing our Facebook usage is a crucial step.Facebook 
browsing little more 
than navel-gazing
It’s not what you’re learning, it’s how you use it
The thought crossed my mind as I was reading French philosopher Michel Fou-cault’s “The History of Sexuality” for one 
of my English classes. Despite its atten-
tion-grabbing title and academic acclaim, 
the book was an insanely difficult read due large-ly to its dense jumble of terms like “tactical poly-
valence” and “juridico-discursive.” It was while 
flipping through these pages and practically giv-ing myself a brain aneurysm that I thought to my-self, “When the hell am I ever going to use this?”
It’s a thought that has occurred to me countless times 
throughout my college career. This becomes significantly less shocking after a brief glance at my transcript, which is decorated with an array of colorful class names includ-ing “Women Writers and Classical Myth,” “Cultures of U.S. 
Imperialism” and “Queer Theory.” Don’t get me wrong, I’ve 
adored every one of these classes, but there’s a reason why I don’t exactly keep my parents updated on my schedule.
My hopeless employability has even become the founda-
tion of my unique brand of self-deprecating humor. Honest-
ly, despite how much I love my major, it’s hard not to make 
fun of it considering some of my closest friends are biomedi-cal engineering, health science and accounting majors. That is — majors that are actually aimed toward a specific job 
field and have tangible hiring potential.
So, when I stumbled across a new report by Payscale 
ranking undergraduate majors by their mid-career earnings, 
I was surprised to find that philosophy beat out all other humanities majors. While philosophy majors still came in at 
75th overall, their ranking compared to other liberal arts de-
grees strengthened an argument I’ve made countless times: With a humanities degree, it’s not so much what you’re learning as much as how you’re learning it.
Philosophy classes are founded on the ability to under-
stand, manipulate, question and defend abstract theories. While every liberal arts class has its own theo-retical component, philosophy is unique in that these theories are the principal area of study. It 
embodies the fundamental spirit of a liberal arts 
education.
Are employers going to care that you can re-
cite Nietzsche’s “The Antichrist” from memory? 
Probably not. But the ability to think creatively, 
work with ambiguity and compose convincing arguments is undeniably attractive in our mod-ern workforce. 
With the rise of corporate globalization comes an array 
of new opportunities and obstacles that will surely require some innovative thinking.
The age-old STEM v. Humanities argument isn’t going 
anywhere, nor is the answer as to which is “better” going 
to present itself anytime soon. I have the utmost respect for 
STEM majors. Hell, a quick look at my best friend’s differ-ential equations notes fills me with immense gratitude for all the people who work with numbers and objectivity so I 
don’t have to.
With that in mind, let’s give all those liberal arts majors 
their fair share. Whether it’s cranking out 25-page term pa-
pers, pretending you know what “panopticism” means or running out of places to store your books, it isn’t always easy. Yet we press on, because for some bizarre reason we actually enjoy it despite the dismal employment prospects. 
Whether your next step is graduate school or becoming 
an actual adult, it’s encouraging to know employers still value the skills you’ve been strengthening over these past few years. In the end, STEM majors may get the jobs, but 
we’ve got the obscure literary references and dazzling din-
ner conversation skills...so I think we know who the real winners are.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Mediocre: adjective. Deﬁ  nition: 
of only moderate or ordinary quality, neither good nor bad. Language of origin: Latin, from the word mediocris. 
However, the French adopted this word in the 1580s in the form of mediocre, in search of a term more adequate to describe their culture. Let’s be real, the only good things the French have given to society have been crunchy, fried po-tato strings and those cute little bulldogs. 
Advice: Noun. Deﬁ  nition: something you deﬁ  -
nitely do not want from somebody named Simon 
Moskovitz.
Dear Mediocre Advice,
I am an extremely pasty young lady. Lately it’s 
been raining so much here that I have not been able to get some color. Do you have any advice on how to get more tan?
– Spectral Sandy
Sandy, here’s my advice on how to get a tan: 
DON’T DO IT. Trust me, pale is better. 
Any girl can be tan; they can just sit in the sun, 
lie in a tanning booth or get a spray tan. 
However, not any girl can be pale… think about 
it. Pale is elegant. Think Venus de Milo or any other ancient goddess shaped from milky ivory. 
Your veins have been beautifully painted on your 
marble skin; be proud of them, embrace them and, whatever you do, STAY OUT OF THE SUN.  
Also, be careful what you wish for. In the Middle 
Ages, you would have been considered a working peasant with the bronze tint you so dearly yearn for. They say fashion and style are cyclical. 
Skin tone is, too. Just like denim, back hair and mullets, pale will come back — you may just have to wait a few hundred years.
Hey there Mediocre Advice,Bae and I are pretty vanilla in the bed-
room: How do I hint at her to be a little more adventurous, try some new things and make things a little more “choco-late,” if you know what I’m saying?
– Anal Anonymous
Anal Anonymous? Really? Do I actually have to answer this question? God damn, I can’t believe I’m about to answer 
this question. 
Well — just like everything else in this column, 
let me clarify that I have absolutely no prior experi-ence that will help me answer this. 
Seriously, none. I promise.  If you want to make things more “chocolate,” the 
ﬁ  rst thing I would recommend is some sort of ﬂ  avor-based lubricant. 
Banana or peanut butter are fairly complemen-
tary ﬂ  avors, so I would recommend one or both of those. 
If you’re looking for an outlet in which you could 
purchase such a product, there’s always stayswet-longer.com. 
Not that I would know, but apparently they have 
six award-winning ﬂ  avors. 
If you’d like, you can enter your email address 
for a free sample. 
Just order one of them and it will ship in three-
to-four days.
 No, I’ve never done this, that’s just what it says 
on the website.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Mediocre Advice: fair skin, bedroom advice Column
Picture this: It’s Saturday morning and you desper-ately need a break from studying. So, you head to Paynes Prairie 
Preserve State Park to enjoy some fresh air and look for bison and alli-gators. But instead, you ﬁ  nd industrial feedlots. And instead of the calls of sandhill cranes and hawks, you hear riﬂ  e ﬁ  re and all-terrain vehi-
cle engines from nearby 
hunters. The turkeys, ducks and deer you always used to see are nowhere to be found. 
This ugly scene could become 
reality if current proposals by Gov. Rick Scott and Department of En-vironmental Protection Secretary Jon Steverson are passed. In a mis-
guided attempt at frugality, they 
are moving to decimate Florida’s award-winning state parks sys-tem by simultaneously slashing its funding and opening park lands — including Paynes Prairie — to commercial hunting and ranch-ing. To add insult to injury, com-mercial entities using park lands 
won’t even contribute to the parks’ 
funding. Instead, they will only be required to provide in-kind ser-vices, such as construction and maintenance of irrigation systems and fencing — “improvements” that would be completely unneces-sary in the absence of hunting or ranching.
The intended purpose of these 
proposals is to save taxpayer mon-ey. Steverson has stated his goal is to make the park system entirely self-sufﬁ  cient — that is, able to maintain itself solely on user fees. This may sound sensible until you consider that no state park system anywhere in the country is fully 
self-sufﬁ  cient and user fees cover 
only about 40 percent of most state park systems’ budgets. Florida’s state park system — voted the top state park system in the country — already gets by with relatively little state support (user fees cover 77 percent of its budget), so Flori-da taxpayers are already getting a 
great bargain.
Taxpayers across 
the country gladly sub-sidize their parks not only out of local pride, but also for their eco-nomic beneﬁ  ts. In 2013, the economic impact of Paynes Prairie to the lo-cal community was cal-
culated at $8.6 million, 
and it’s a safe bet none of its visi-
tors came to see industrial ranch-ing operations or game farms that could have been situated anywhere in the country. Are we going to undo that now just so a few private hunting and ranching interests can make a proﬁ  t?
Fortunately, you have the pow-
er to help stop this. Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., Alachua Audu-bon Society will be distributing pre-addressed, stamped postcards so you can let your elected repre-sentatives know you won’t stand silent as Gainesville’s premier natural attraction is destroyed. All 
you have to do is sign your cards 
and add a personal message if you wish (a brief, preprinted message is already included). We will be at Wild Birds Unlimited, located at 4212 NW 16th Blvd. (next door to Flying Biscuit Cafe).
The DEP is already talking to 
ranchers about using Paynes Prai-
rie lands. But public outcry against 
this plan is also getting noticed in Tallahassee. The only thing that can keep Paynes Prairie safe is widespread, persistent public op-position, and every voice counts. When Gators talk, Tallahassee lis-tens. Join us Saturday at Wild Birds Unlimited and make sure your 
voice is heard.
Felicia Lee is a board member 
of the Alachua Audobon Society 
and a former visiting UF assistant professor of linguistics.
Students can help preserve 
Paynes Prairie — here’s howGuest column
Felicia Lee
Speaking Out
Simon Moskovitz
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
The last time the Gators reached 
that mark in a season opener was 
in 2009, Tim Tebow’s final year on 
campus.
“Over 90,000 people for their 
first game of the season, a non-con-
ference game, is huge,” said junior 
linebacker Alex Anzalone. “There’s nothing like it, that’s for sure.”
Tickets for the game had been 
sold out since Thursday at 5 p.m., Mark Gajda, an assistant athletics director in ticket sales and opera-tions, wrote in an email. 
More than 20,000 of the tickets 
were claimed by students and their 
guests, Gajda said.
Students flooded UF Facebook 
groups in search of tickets for them-selves or their friends.
After posting on Facebook, UF 
psychology senior Carrie Green 
received a message from someone 
selling a ticket at 3 p.m. Saturday. 
She bought it for $20 at 4:30 
p.m., just three hours before kick-
off.
The 21-year-old said she had 
been to every season opener since she moved from Atlanta to 
Gainesville in 2012.
At her first game as a freshman, 
Green said she didn’t know any-
one. But for her last first game be-fore graduation, she said she went with friends.
“Now it feels like home,” she 
said.
•   •   •
The morning of the game, dark 
clouds loomed as fans began setting up tents and chairs around campus.
While a few donned ponchos as 
they unloaded coolers and cush-ions, others crammed into the beds of pickup trucks and waved to pass-ersby.
Despite the drizzle, the grill fires 
still blazed, the music still played and the Gators still danced.
Richard Schultz, 58, had been 
parked in his signature spot in front of Century Tower since 7 a.m.
His 1973 Volkswagen Westfalia 
bus has made the trip from Melrose to Gainesville for nearly 30 games, with curtains, cushions and doors emblazoned with the Gator logo.
In front of the bus, an alligator 
head rested on a wood table with a foam New Mexico State sign, shaped like a gun.
“It’s always there,” Schultz said 
of the head. “With somebody else in it.”
While he liked Muschamp, the 
advertising alumnus said he was ready for McElwain to take charge.
“It’s a big anticipation of a new 
era,” he said.
But for him, the best moments 
of the game were to come in the 15 minutes before kickoff.
“It’s got all the pre-game pag-
eantry,” he said.
•   •   •
The fans began trickling into the 
stadium hours before kickoff.
They cheered for the warm-ups, 
watching as cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III stood in front of the tunnel and high-fived every player who left the tunnel.
Once the players returned to the 
tunnel, the band took to the field for its signature opening.
It was then time for the game to 
begin.
Inside the tunnel, the Gators 
couldn’t keep still — bouncing, slapping backs and helmets and 
chanting.
And then they ran.
In the stands, there was sheer 
excitement.
Beach balls bounced across the 
student section, with field assis-tants tossing stray ones back into 
the fray.
Students crowd-surfed, held on 
the shoulders of their friends and 
fellow Gator fans.
Even Albert, one of the UF mas-
cots, took a break from posing for pictures and was hoisted into the 
air.
Larry Martin and his 9-year-old 
granddaughter Savanah Martin 
looked onto the field.
Martin, 62, has been going to the 
stadium for 56 years.
“Of course I love it when the 
Gators win,” the UF alumnus said.
He’s not the only one:  Alumni 
and students hooted and hollered at every firework-filled touchdown.
“Everyone was in such good 
spirits,” said UF psychology fresh-
man Sydney Major.
Major said she went to Satur-
day’s game to gauge how the rest 
of the season would be, and she wasn’t disappointed.
She said this was her first game 
in the student section, and the vibe was completely different.
“I wasn’t the only crazy person 
yelling at the football game,” she said. “We were all in it together.”
•   •   •
With the final score illuminated 
by fireworks, the fans in the sta-dium cheered, high-fiving strangers and hugging friends.
McElwain, who remained stoic 
for most of the game, hugged play-ers and slapped backs before greet-ing the other team. 
The Gators crowded around the 
band to sing, some conducting the musicians from the field.
As the band played its last notes, 
the players began to dance, exuber-ant with the victory.
A final roar came from the 
crowd when McElwain walked to the front of the band and chomped, a salute to the students.
On Monday, he said he hopes 
for the same support for the next game: a Saturday-night matchup against East Carolina University, 
the same team the Gators played in 
the Birmingham Bowl to close out the 2014 season.
“We’ve got a heck of a chal-
lenge,” McElwain said, “and we just need those fans out there like we did last game to make the Swamp a tough place to play.”
Alligator Staff Writers Jordan 
McPherson, Danielle Veenstra and Aaron Albright contributed to this report.FANS,  from pg1Tickets for the game 
were sold out by Thurs.
TOP LEFT:
Students shout from the stands 
during Florida’s 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday.
TOP RIGHT:
Fans do the Gator Chomp dur-ing the season’s first home game Saturday. More than 90,000 people flooded into The Swamp to see the game.
MIDDLE LEFT:
From left: Golfer Alex Romani, training specialist Keri Bachtel and pilot David Rog ride around UF’s campus on their “cruising coolers” before the game Sat-urday. The cooler gang can pa-rade around for as far as 8 miles on fully charged batteries. “We typically go all the way from the Bull Gator lot to the blue ca-boose tent every home game, ” Rog said.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Surrounded by media, Jim McEl-wain celebrates Florida’s 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday. This was his first game as head UF football coach.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Sophomore defensive back 
Jalen T abor (31) dances while the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band plays following Florida’s 61-13 win against New Mexico State. The win made a record for most points scored during a UF 
head coach’s first game.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Aaron Albright / Alligator StaffAndrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
A member of the University 
Athletic Association attempts to contain the Florida Gator football team until it was their time to run onto the field. The one-man barrier did not suc-cessfully hold back the excited pushing power of Florida’s of-fensive and defensive players.
RIGHT:
Juan Davila, 35, plays catch with his friends’ 1-year-old son Gian Fraga on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas before the game Saturday.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious at-mosphere. $425/mo includes high speed in-ternet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 352-631-0737    9-11-15-12-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
ATTENTION: VET STUDENTS, NURSING, 
MED STUDENTS. Close to campus, 3BR/2.5BA, new up-grade, 2-car garage + storage shed. $1300/mo. 1259 SW 21st Ave.  352-378-1221 / 352-871-4252    9-9-15-5-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
● HOUSE FOR RENT - 2927 SW 1st Ave ●
Directly across from UF Golf Coursel
4-5BR/3BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Only $1,775/month
No application fee, all pets ok.
352-258-0025
9-11-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
● 20 PIECE WILD TURKEY DECANTER 
COLLECTION (3 miniatures go with col-lection for free.) $1500. ● VALUABLE 
PLAYBOY MAGAZINES - 2000 - 2012 . $1500.  Call Lloyd at 352-262-4390.    9-10-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
2007 HYUNDAI ENTOURAGELike new, 6-cyl, Front-wheel drive, gas, 115,800 mi, gold, clean title. Nice, extra clean, ready to go! Leather, sunroof, DVD, full capt chairs, running-board, loaded. $6500. 352-226-7251    9-10-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
P/T cleaner needed for offices,apartments, and homes. Must have own transportation and be able to pass a background/reference/drug test..weekly pay and hrly rate of 8.25/hr..if interested please call 352-214-0868    9-10-5-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring deli 
and bar help. Must have reliable trans-portation. Weekend availability required. Applications accepted at the 2327 N W 13th Street location.    9-8-15-2-14
ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
352 Inc. is looking for a rockstar admin to work 20-25 hrs/week Mon-Fri. in a fun and creative working environment. Looking for someone who is proactive, reliable and hardworking. If interested please send re-sume and schedule to lclifton@352inc.com.    9-14-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
FREE DANCE CLASS - CARDIO-A-GO-GOThis Thursday, Sept 10th, 6pmThe Lingerie Co. - 2614 SW 34th St. Calltoday to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    9-10-15-4-21Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 15 Services 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
"Did they not wear socks?" 
Jim McElwain, when asked if his players dress like him.
UF football coachFlorida football's new indoor 
practice facility was originally slated to open in October, but the Gators moved in early. See the story and photos on pg. 14 .Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports or online at www.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics. By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
For tight end Jake McGee, the 
toughest part is over.
After almost two years with-
out being able to make an impact 
in a live game, the sixth-year se-nior showed up Saturday.
While he only had two catch-
es for 18 yards in Florida’s 61-13 win against New Mexico State, McGee said the season opener was a good way to transition back into action.
“It was a great feeling,” Mc-
Gee said. “Just really one of those that can’t be explained. To 
me, that was a happy day.”
While McGee’s return pro-
vided a spark and gave Florida 
another veteran on offense, the tight end corps as a whole found 
success.
On Saturday, in head coach 
Jim McElwain’s UF debut, Flor-
ida’s three tight ends — McGee,  C’yontai Lewis and DeAndre Goolsby — recorded seven catch-es, 100 yards and two touch-downs.
Lewis — a 6-foot-4, 228 
pound redshirt freshman  — paved the way with 44 yards and a pair of touchdown grabs from Will Grier. 
Goolsby had three catches of 
his own, gaining 38 yards in the process.
“I’m excited to see the way 
they’ve grown and the way 
they’ve really sort of stepped 
into what they’re going to be asked to do,” McGee said. “And can’t wait to see them keep go-
ing.”
McElwain said Lewis has im-THE GATORS HAD 606 YARDS OF 
TOTAL OFFENSE ON SATURDAY.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
Florida’s offense moved the ball at will, 
coughed up just one turnover and didn’t commit a penalty in the team’s season open-
ing 61-13 win against New Mexico State on 
Saturday night.
Sophomore quarterback Treon Harris 
started the ﬁ  rst drive and redshirt freshman 
Will Grier entered soon after. 
Together, the two quarterbacks com-
bined to go 30-for-37 passing for 381 yards and four touchdowns.
Following the mantra “if it ain’t broke, 
don’t ﬁ  x it”, Florida will continue using both quarterbacks in Saturday’s game against 
East Carolina.
“They’re all correctable mistakes, they’re 
not fatal ﬂ  aws,” McElwain said. “We’ll play 
both like we did next week as far as how 
we’ll do it.”
Overall, it was an encouraging opening 
to the season for McElwain, who said he no-
ticed different aspects of each quarterback’s game that helped lead the Gators to a win 
against one of the worst teams in college 
football in recent memory.
The Aggies came into Gainesville with 10 
straight losses, and a combined 5-31 record  over the last three seasons.
“I thought Treon showed some escape-
ability and created big plays down the ﬁ  eld, 
extended plays. I think that’s a real posi-
tive,” McElwain said. 
“I thought what Will did was come in 
with that two-minute drive right there be-fore half. We gave up a score and we an-swered.”
While neither quarterback was ﬂ  awless, 
McElwain said it’s encouraging knowing the mistakes are reparable.
To keep the defense guessing, the Gators 
plan to continue using a multitude of play-
makers on offense like they did against the Aggies.
UF had 14 players catch at least one pass 
on Saturday, with junior Demarcus Robin-
SEE TIGHT ENDS,  PAGE 15TORRES TELLS IT
Florida’s offense 
under Jim McElwain 
got off to a fast start on Saturday night against New Mexico State.
The Gators scored 
61 points, had 606 
yards of total offense 
and ended the ﬁ  rst week as the No. 12 offense in the country. 
Not bad for an offense that ﬁ  n-
ished last year ranked 96th in the nation. 
The 61 points Florida’s offense scored were also the most the team has put up on the scoreboard 
for a coach making 
his debut in the his-tory of the program.
But don’t get used 
to that type of of-fense from the Gators because it’s going to 
come back down to earth as the season goes along.
Yes, McElwain made his mark 
in the opening game against the Aggies and fans should be excited Gator fans must temper 
oﬀ  ensive expectationsFlorida to continue dual quarterback system against ECU
UF football utilizing tight endsEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF football coach Jim McElwain walks out of the tunnel during Florida's 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIIGroup had seven catches
“I’m excited to see the way 
they’ve grown and the way 
they’ve really sort of stepped 
into what they’re going to be 
asked to do.”
Jake McGee
UF tight end
14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
In previous Florida football seasons, a 
rainy day like Monday meant practice would 
be in the O’Connell Center or Florida Gym — not exactly an ideal situation.
But with the team’s new indoor practice 
facility, such problems are a thing of the past.
“It’s something that’s been long over-
due,” coach Jim McElwain said of the com-plex. “What it does is show a commitment — a commitment to this organization and this football program.”
When the University of Florida an-
nounced its plans to build the facility on Jan. 
21, the goal was to have the project finished 
by October.
But more than seven months and $17 mil-
lion later, the football team has already been making good use of the building the con-struction crew worked on around the clock to complete ahead of schedule.
In addition to rainy days, the Gators 
practice inside every Thursday and Friday 
with the goal of lessening the impact of the 
Gainesville sun on the player’s bodies.
“Anytime you can just take the heat drain 
off, it just helps you in the long run,” McEl-wain said on Aug. 14. “It helps you be a little fresher at the end of the year.”
The facility includes a full 120-yard syn-
thetic turf field plus extra room for drills, complete with scoreboards and a goal post 
on one end. Having that type of space al-
lows the team to make the choice to practice indoors without sacrificing any freedoms — except punting. 
With the height of the facility’s ceiling, 
punters are forced to take the day off when-ever they are unable to practice outdoors.
But kickoffs and field goals have no such 
issue, and redshirt junior kicker Austin Har-din says it actually gives him more freedom than before.
“It’s been pretty awesome actually,” Har-
din said. “It gives us a lot more field space so I’ve really been able to put in extra work and 
put in extra time. 
“When they’re using the two fields out-
side, or they’re using the indoor field, I’ve 
been able to go outside and work on post and work a lot of different aspects of my game that were kind of difficult to work be-fore given the limited field space.”
An inside look at Florida’s indoor practice facility
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffTOP:
Members of the media tour the UF 
indoor football practice facility, viewed at full length, on Monday.
LEFT:
Pictured is the south side of UF’s indoor practice facility. The Gator head logo lies at midfield while a field goal post stands in the end zone. 
RIGHT:
Reporters talk with Chip Howard (center), an executive associate athletics director for internal affairs, inside the UF indoor football practice facility Monday as they watch rain fall outside one of the facility’s windows. 
BOTTOM: 
This detail shot shows a close up of the artificial turf inside UF’s indoor practice facility.
pressed him since Spring practice 
and he enjoyed watching Lewis have a solid night against New Mexico State.
“I think as he grows, and con-
tinues to develop in the offense, 
he’s one of those versatile guys,” 
McElwain said. 
“He still needs to get bigger 
and stronger, but he might be our best point of attack blocker as well.”
Over the past two seasons, 
Florida’s tight ends have been virtually non-existent in the pass-ing game.
In 24 games, UF tight ends to-
taled just 30 receptions, 279 yards and three touchdowns in the last two seasons overall.
McElwain is making sure the 
poor production remains a thing of the past.“Well, we believe in using tight 
ends here and believe in multiple 
formations and shifts,” he said. 
“The more they can handle, 
the more effective we’re going to 
be offensively.”
And McGee said there’s no rea-
son why there should be any drop off from the tight ends as the sea-son progresses.
“As a unit, we expect to be 
productive,” McGee said. 
“We expect to make plays.”TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
from what they saw because the of-fense looks better than the previous 
regime under Will Muschamp.
But UF’s offensive explosion came 
against an Aggies team that won just 
two games last season and had just 
five total sacks last year in 12 games.
The two quarterbacks — Treon 
Harris and Will Grier — showed flash-
es of brilliance as they combined to go 30-for-37 for 381 yards passing and four touchdowns, while Grier added 
another score on the ground.
But overall, they weren’t too im-
pressive against the Aggies. 
And that should be an area of con-
cern for UF as the schedule gets pro-
gressively tougher. 
For one, Harris’ first touchdown 
pass to Brandon Powell wasn’t a great 
throw. 
It was a floating duck in the air 
that Powell had to wait for because it was underthrown. 
Without the extra effort by Powell, 
Florida likely wouldn't have scored. 
Harris struggled last year with un-
derthrown balls, which contributed to his completion rate being under 50 percent. 
If he throws that ball against a 
team with a better secondary, it’s go-ing to be a different story.
As for Grier, it took him a couple of 
series to get comfortable. 
He didn’t recognize when the Ag-
gies sent cornerback Terrill Hanks on a blitz, ultimately causing Grier to 
fumble. 
It was Florida's only turnover of 
the game, but it was costly: The Ag-
gies scored on the ensuing offensive 
series. 
If he eventually becomes the start-
ing quarterback, Grier has to do a 
better job of recognizing what the de-fense is throwing at him. 
The offensive line also had hiccups 
at the beginning of the game as Harris had to scramble and make something out of nothing.  
All of this against a defense that 
was one of the worst in the country last season and plays in the Sun Belt Conference.   
And New Mexico State’s defense 
doesn’t compare to the ones the Gators will face in the coming weeks and as they get into the heart of Southeastern Conference play.
East Carolina comes into 
Gainesville on Saturday, and while the Pirates didn’t have a good defen-sive performance in their first game — they allowed 416 yards to Towson  
— the Pirates are familiar with the 
players UF has.Florida was able to squeak out a 
win against East Carolina in the Bir-mingham Bowl when the two teams met each other on Jan. 3.
After the Pirates, Florida’s offense 
will be tested the following week 
when UF travels to Lexington to face 
the Kentucky Wildcats in its SEC opener.
The two biggest tests determining 
how good the offense will be comes after the road trip to Lexington.
A revitalized SEC-rival, Tennessee, 
and Ole Miss' menacing defensive front lead by Robert Nkemdiche both 
roll into Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.  
There are still too many questions 
surrounding the offense, and fans 
shouldn’t get excited about how well 
the offense played against the Aggies.
Quite frankly, this offense hasn't 
proven it's good, and don’t expect it 
to be a top-25 offense with the ques-tions surrounding it. 
Beating New Mexico State says 
nothing about the quality of Florida's team this season. 
Until the Gators score a sizable 
amount against an SEC foe, I'm not 
buying the offensive revival. 
The Gators will be lucky if they fin-
ish in the middle of the pack offen-
sively with the competition they will face as the season goes along. COLUMN,  from pg13
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris passes during Florida's 
61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF tight end C'yontai Lewis celebrates as he scores a touchdown during Florida's 61-13 win against New Mexico State on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
TIGHT ENDS,  from pg13McGee: W e expect to be productive
son leading the way with six re-
ceptions for 34 yards.
But when Florida released its 
Week 2 depth chart on Monday, Robinson had dropped from a starter to the third-team offense. 
Freshman Antonio Callaway 
was listed as a projected starter after snagging three receptions for 26 yards on Saturday. 
McElwain said fans shouldn’t 
read too much into the unofficial 
depth chart, however.
“What are depth charts?” 
McElwain said rhetorically. 
“As you look at rep counts, I 
think some guys … that weren’t 
No. 1 on the depth chart prob-ably played a bunch more than guys that were on there.
“I don’t ever look at even a 
backup as a non-starter. You got to think of yourself as a starter because if that person goes down, then you’re a starter. “
Junior running back Kelvin 
Taylor ran eight times for 54 yards and a touchdown while also hauling in a 43-yard catch that ended up being Florida’s 
longest reception of the day.
Expect the Gators to also 
continue using a revolving door 
in the backfield, with Taylor re-
maining the starter.
Freshmen running backs Jor-
dan Cronkrite and Jordan Scar-
lett will continue to receive con-sistent looks after running for 24 
and 34 yards, respectively.
“We’ve got to continue to do 
that in the backfield,” McElwain 
said. 
“There are five guys there that 
we feel totally comfortable with to help take a burden off that po-sition.”
Overall, the Gators unveiled a 
formidable offense that relies on multiple playmakers. 
McElwain, comparing the 
team’s offense to a gun, said 
Florida wouldn’t rely solely on 
those listed as first-string play-ers but rather an array of options throughout the depth chart.
“I’m about using all the bul-
lets and then put some more in the next game,” McElwain said. 
“I’m sure you’ll let me know 
when I don’t.”
Heading into the season, the 
Gators spoke often about want-ing to come out and finally unveil the team’s progress. 
For McElwain, the first-year 
Florida coach was most excited to see the Gators come together as a team and support each other.
“What I saw was a lot of guys 
get into this team,” McElwain said. 
“When the offense did well, 
the defensive guys were as ex-cited as anybody. That shows me 
there’s some bonding that’s com-
ing together here.
“The excitement for each oth-
er, that’s really what it’s about.”FOOTBALL,  from pg13UF played five running 
backs on Saturday16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015
