We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 133 TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
By Cresonia Hsieh
Alligator Contributing Writer
Marvin Andujar and Chris Craw-
ford have been inseparable for about 
three years and can practically read each other’s minds. Now they have a drone that can read theirs.
Andujar and Crawford, both UF 
human-centered computing third-year doctoral students, programmed a brain-computer in-terface software for a mind-controlled drone.
The 25-year-olds 
transferred from Clemson University together, in-terned at Intel together, roomed 
together and now share an ofﬁ  ce 
together.
Their drone responds to people 
when they wear an Emotiv Systems EPOC headset, a device that trans-lates electrical signals from the brain into code the drone can understand.
The drone responds to any ba-
sic directional command, Crawford said. However, ﬂ  ying is currently limited to forward and stopping mo-tions because it needs additional hu-man training and software develop-
ment. Users typically need three to 
four minutes of brain training to ﬂ  y the drone.
After more than two years of re-
searching, building and developing the drone, both students said they believe the most difﬁ  cult part wasn’t creating the drone. It was communi-
cating with people.
“One of the most 
restraining parts is to convince people that this actually works —  that this is the future and that this is very 
useful, too,” Andujar said.
Andujar said BCI technology, a 
realm of study with fewer than 100 
American researchers, has practical 
applications in the medical ﬁ  eld.
While it can be helpful to those 
with physical disabilities, BCI tech-nology can also serve able-bodied people, Andujar said. Robots can be used in the future for time- and 
Running back seeks fresh start
After being a backup for two years, Kelvin T ay-
lor is expected to carry the load at running back next season, pg 13.
Strawberry season delayed by cold
Local grower says berries are peaking now, pg 3.
UF Wetlands Club cypress trees selling fast
It even has buyers from T exas, pg 9.UF student memorialized with 
scholarship endowment
It will be awarded to juniors and seniors
studying health disparities, pg 5.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
From left: Ellen Allen, 68, Shirley Roseman, 25, and Krys Davis, 28, hold signs outside City Hall on Mon-
day morning protesting HB 583, which would require that single-sex public bathrooms only be used by persons of the legal sex the facility is intended for. “Everyone deserves to live their lives in a positive, equal way, ” Allen said.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
On Monday morning, a group 
of about 15 people called for 
Gainesville’s mayor and city com-missioner to take a stand against a proposed bill that would affect the transgender community.
At City Hall, the 
groups Trans Com-munity and Allies of Gainesville held a press conference to 
ask Mayor Ed Braddy 
and the commission to oppose House Bill 583, which would force transgender in-dividuals to use public bathrooms, dressing rooms, ﬁ  tting rooms and showers based on their legal sex or be punished with jail 
time and a ﬁ  ne.
Signs that read “We just need 
2 pee” and “Flush HB 583” were 
held by supporters.
Harmony Cole, a 25-year-old 
transgender woman who lead the rally, said the bill discriminates against transgender people. She said transgender people are more susceptible to harassment in pri-vate areas such as bathrooms.
Cole said she has experienced 
difﬁ  culties going in bathrooms of 
her assigned sex.
“I feel there’s great discomfort 
by crouching over and hiding my 
breasts,” she said.
Zot Lynn Szurgot, a transgen-
der woman, said the bill is cruel and inhumane.
“To be singled out 
and isolated is hard on 
transgender folks,” she 
said.
The group said they 
have called Braddy about seven times and left ﬁ  ve voicemails try-ing to set up appoint-ments to discuss the issue.
If the bill is approved, violators 
could face up to 60 days in jail and a $500 ﬁ  ne.
Cole said she wasn’t able to 
talk with the mayor or city com-missioners, but she was able to make an appointment with Brad-dy and with City Manager Russ Blackburn.
She said she plans to ask the 
mayor to put the issue on the agenda for the commission’s meet-ing April 16.GNV groups gather to protest trans bathroom bill
UF students program software for mind-controlled drone
SEE DRONE,  PAGE 4
Cresoniah Hsieh / Alligator 
Marvin Andujar, a 25-year-old UF 
human-centered computing doctoral student, poses for a photo with a mind-controlled drone that he and his partner, Chris Crawford, programmed.STATE
NEWS
CAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 133
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  64°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome Cinema presents ‘A 
Year in Champagne’ as next 
Cinema Lounge filmThe Hippodrome Cinema’s next Cinema Lounge presents “A Year 
in Champagne” tonight at 7 p.m. 
Journey through the vineyards of the French Champagne region and explore six Champagne mak-ers with wine importer Martine Saunier. Free champagne will also be served for those 21 and older courtesy of Dorn’s Liquors. Admission is $10. The 
Hippodrome Cinema is located 
inside the Hippodrome State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete listing of films and additional showtimes, please visit thehipp.org.
Edible Book Contest
The George A. Smathers Libraries’ 
annual Edible Book Contest will 
take place today from 11 a.m. to noon in front of Library West. Prizes are awarded in five cat-egories by a panel of judges, and the public is invited to vote for the People’s Choice Award. Winners will be announced at 12:15 p.m., and entrants do not 
have to be present to win. Free 
cake is served to everyone. UF students, faculty, staff and com-munity members are invited to submit an entry. The only rules are that entries must be edible and somehow related to a book. For more information, see uflib.ufl.edu/ebc.
Second annual Three-Minute 
Thesis competitionThe UF Graduate School and the Graduate Student Advisory Council are excited to an-nounce the second annual UF Three-Minute Thesis Finals Competition, which will take 
place today at 2 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium. Ten UF final-ists from across multiple disci-plines will explain their research in three minutes or fewer with one static PowerPoint slide. The judges will award a first- and second-place prize, and attendees get to vote for their favorite in the 
People’s Choice Award. 
Sacred Intimacy, Sacred Sexuality 
Join David Deida, UF alum-nus,  best-selling author and renowned workshop leader, for a free, interactive presen-tation today at 7 p.m. at the Health Profession, Nursing and Pharmacy Building Auditorium. Deida’s insightful and pro-vocative teachings continue to revolutionize the way men and women grow spiritually and deepen their sexual experienc-es. For more information about Deida, go to www.deida.info or call 352 -374-4478.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
A story published Monday under 
the headline "UF-based non-prof-it awards first scholarship to stu-dent with MS," the Alligator in-
correctly stated the organization's 
benefit concert is Thursday. The 
date of the concert is actually April 16.
TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Aaron Albright / Alligator 
Abby Kirksy, 2, picks strawberries for the ﬁ  rst time with her mother, Melissa Kirksy, on Brown’s Farm 
in Hawthorne on Wednesday. Kirksy, from Starke, said it was their ﬁ  rst time on the farm.
By Aaron Albright
Alligator Contributing Writer
For one Florida farmer, this 
year’s strawberry season will come 
a little later than expected.
At Brown’s Farm in Orange 
Heights, strawberry season usually 
begins around October or Novem-
ber and peaks around late March to early April, said owner Roy Brown. After a colder-than-usual start to the year, the peak season has been slightly delayed.
Now, Brown said he expects 
most of his crop to be ripe around mid-April. Last year, he said the 
berries peaked in March.
“We had a very good crop last 
year,” he said.
However, since not every berry 
ripens at the same time, it’s difﬁ  -
cult to measure a speciﬁ  c amount, he said.
But that doesn’t mean the ber-
ries aren’t ready to be picked.
Brown’s Farm, located at 18120 
State Road 26, opened up its rough-ly 500-acre strawberry ﬁ  eld for picking March 14, where anyone 
can pick the berries for $1.50 per 
pound.
Brown said when he was grow-
ing up, Bradford and Alachua County were the main strawberry-growing counties in Florida. But a few hard freezes over the years have resulted in most of the indus-try moving south to Plant City.
This makes selling to local gro-
cery stores more difﬁ  cult, he said, as there is more competition from Plant City and California, where the strawberries peak much soon-er due to the consistently warmer weather.Ward’s Supermarket buys 
its strawberries from farmers in Gainesville and Plant City, said  Produce Manager Brooke Ward. Ward’s typically buys from Brown’s farm, but the delay in the season has Ward’s buying straw-
berries from other farmers.
Brown said he grows two vari-
eties of California-bred strawber-
ries: Camarosa and Benicia, but next season he plans to grow a new kind of strawberry called the “Florida Sensation,” which was de-veloped by UF and introduced to Florida growers last year.
Overall, Brown said he ﬁ  nds the 
newest developments in strawber-ry varieties to be less ﬂ  avorful than they used to be, though he said they are certainly sweeter.
“The redder the better,” he said, 
smiling.Strawberry season delayed by cold
Gainesville Throwbacks
April 9, 1968:  
Forty-seven years ago and two days before a sched-
uled concert by the Beach Boys, tensions were high in 
Gainesville following the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. four days earlier. Police responded to reports of broken windows and gunshots; UF students and a professor were arrested in a sit-in downtown, and an 11 p.m. curfew was mandated.
April 9, 1983: A world record is shattered as the American Build-
ers Institute and a team of 300 workers build a four-bedroom, two-bathroom house in 11 hours and 11 minutes in Gainesville. Construction of the house at 7220 SW 18th Place started at 7 a.m. with the founda-tion laid an hour later and walls up by mid-afternoon. The entire 1,100 square-foot building was ﬁ  nished by 6:11 p.m. that same day.
April 11, 1985: 
Thirty years ago Saturday, state lawmakers raised 
Florida’s drinking age to 21 from 19. Under the law they passed, newly underage drinkers 19 and over were grandfathered in. Ever since, everybody else has been SOL — so out of luck.
April 8, 1995:  
We caught a photo of a smiling Chris Robinson, 
lead singer of the then-relevant Black Crowes, as he performed at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Sat-urday night. The day after, Flavet Field hosted Sun-fest ‘95, featuring acts like Beenie Man and Silver Cat. Seven people were arrested on drug-related charges.
April 6, 2001: Students, administrators and city ofﬁ  cials marched 
on the Reitz Union Colonnade in a “Rally Against Hate” in lieu of recent incidents at UF involving mi-nority groups. “We really want to show the school that racism needs to come to an end,” Julia Akamn, president of Asian Student Union, said. The rally was in response to a slew of racial incidents, such as “No Spicks (sic) for President!” being spray painted on the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures and banners ad-vertising Pride Awareness Month being vandalized.
— STAFF REPORT4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015By Chris Watkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
Investment in renewable energy re-
sources is up as costs for renewable en-
ergy drop.
According to a report by the United 
Nations Environment Programme, total worldwide investment in renewable en-ergy reached $270.2 billion in 2014, an 
increase of almost 17 percent 
from 2013. The jump made re-newable energy responsible for 9.1 percent of the total energy production in 2014, an increase 
of 0.6 percentage points.
But although Gainesville saw 
a peak in renewable energy investments 
over the years, those investments have 
slowed down, said Wayne Irwin, presi-
dent of Pure Energy Solar. 
This is in part due to a Gainesville 
Regional Utilities program that ended in 2013 that would offer rebates and feed-in-
tariffs, or compensation from the power 
company for the energy put back into the power grid
Currently, there is still a 30 percent 
federal tax incentive to install a solar system, but that will expire at the end of 2016, he added.
As the rest of Florida is pushing for 
more investment, Irwin’s company is do-ing more and more projects outside of Gainesville.
“I think that the grid that powers this 
country will be drastically different in 10 years,” said Wendell Porter, a lecturer and undergraduate adviser in the Agricul-tural and Biological Engineering  Depart-
ment at UF.
Porter said the price of renewable en-
ergy, such as solar and wind technology, 
has dropped as much as 60 percent over the 
past three years, and he does not predict it will stop.
Solar technology 
costs have plunged be-
cause the price of silicon, which is used in solar panels, also dropped, said Barry Jacobson, the president of Solar Impact.
Nearly half of the total investment 
— $131.3 billion in renewable energy — was made by developing countries, ac-cording to the report, with solar and wind technology leading the way.
The actual numbers are a bit bigger, 
said Porter, because the report did not take into consideration hydroelectric power production.
“Wind and solar is becoming cheaper 
than fossil fuels,” he said, with 60 coun-tries getting more than half of their en-ergy from renewable energy sources.
Giuseppe Sabella / Alligator
Pictured are solar panels outside ECS Solar Energy Systems Inc., the first licensed solar con-
tractor in Florida, in February. The price of solar energy technology has dropped 50 to 60 percent the past three years, according to Wendell Porter, lecturer and adviser in Agricultural and Biological Engineering at UF.
Renewable energy taking off worldwide, stalling in GNVIT NEEDS TO RAISE $5,000.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A nonprofit is raising money to 
start its free delivery service for people with disabilities.
Delivery Foundation, Lazy De-
livery’s nonprofit entity, launched its organization Monday to pro-vide free delivery services to peo-ple with physical disabilities or chronic conditions that prevent them from getting around easily, according to a press release. 
But before the Delivery Foun-dation can begin providing its free services, it needs $5,000.
The Delivery Foundation, 
while separate from Lazy Deliv-ery, will work similarly to the company.
The foundation’s team is made 
up of four UF students and Lazy Delivery Co-Founder Daniel Ze-laya.
The group first thought of the 
idea for Delivery Foundation in January, Marketing Director Pa-
tricia Potestades said.
“One thing that we noticed ... 
is that we have a lot of custom-
ers who have disabilities, and those were the people who were our most loyal customers,” Po-testades said. “(So) we decided we wanted to give back to these people.”
Gainesville residents with 
physical disabilities and chronic conditions who want to take ad-vantage of the free delivery ser-vice must first apply to the De-livery Foundation, according to the press release. Once accepted, they create a Lazy Delivery ac-count and use the site like regular customers.
But unlike Lazy Delivery, 
which operates in three Flori-da cities, Delivery Foundation will only provide services in Gainesville.
To cover the costs of free de-
livery, the Foundation will rely 
on donations, Potestades said.
Joy and Kat Drawdy, owners 
of Earth Pets, a pet food and sup-ply store in Gainesville, were the 
first to donate to Delivery Foun-dation.
“They’re just awesome,” Joy 
said of the team. “Really, it was just about the company and the people that came in and talked to us. They were just really, really nice, and it’s a great service, and it’s great what they’re doing.”
Delivery Foundation will begin 
providing free deliveries in May if it receives enough funds.
As of press time, the founda-
tion’s Indiegogo account has re-ceived three donations totaling $55.
Delivery service for people with disabilities raising money 
CAMPUS
By Adrian Cibran
Alligator Contributing Writer
Arturo Bustamante said gaming 
has shaped his UF experience.
Bustamante, a UF computer sci-
ence junior, is a member of UF’s 
Gator Gaming, an organization that 
promotes gaming for its communi-
ty-building and network-enriching environment. Gator Gaming will be hosting GatorLAN, the largest free-gaming event in Florida, on April 18.
Gator Gaming regularly hosts 
public gaming tents and tourna-ments where students play video 
games in a free social setting. Ga-
torLAN will host 10 to 15 games in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from noon to midnight.Bustamante, 20, spends more 
than four hours a week playing video games, which is how he met most of his friend circle.
“It’s actually helped me with 
getting through school,” he said.
Bustamante goes by the tag 
“Martakia.” Gamers use tags as a brand or nickname, which is how 
they often introduce themselves to 
others at tournaments.
J.J. Torres, a UF English sopho-
more, said he got hooked on video games as a child playing with his cousins. He likes that he gets to continue with the gaming commu-nity in college.
At a tabling event on Turling-
ton Plaza last week, Torres, 20, played “Super Smash Bros.” with 
members and passersby on two TV 
monitors and a projector. 
Members also volunteer at UF 
Health Shands Hospital and play video games with the children.
“You get to meet so many peo-
ple from so many different walks of 
life,” Torres said.
Bustamante said the culture be-
hind gaming isn’t just about the 
games themselves.
“It brings people together,” he 
said, “and it connects them into something that’s common ground for them.”Gaming group a haven for students 
energy-saving tasks as simple as carrying groceries.
The technology is also being 
implemented in fields like neu-rogaming.
“The most frustrating thing is 
that after you do make a break-through, is that if you submit a paper or if you do something or you try to talk to someone about funding, they don’t understand it,” Crawford said.
Andujar and Crawford have 
been working to make the technol-
ogy more user friendly.
“If people cannot use this, then 
it’s useless,” Andujar said.Juan Gilbert, associate chair of 
research in the UF Department of 
Computer and Information Science and Engineering, understands and supports their work. 
As their adviser, Gilbert has 
sponsored them and helped con-duct research since Fall 2013.
“They are relentless in their 
pursuits,” Gilbert said. “They re-ally are the kind of people who pick up a problem and can’t set it down.”
Both doctoral students and their 
adviser said they believe the drone 
is still unfinished, and it will con-
tinue to be a tool for BCI research at UF.
Next up, the duo plans to make 
a humanoid a reality.DRONE,  from pg 1Creators, adviser believe 
drone is still unfinished“One thing that we noticed ... is 
that we have a lot of customers 
who have disabilities, and those 
were the people who were our 
most loyal customers.”
Patricia Potestades
marketing director, 
Delivery Foundation
“It brings people together, and 
it connects them into something 
that’s common ground for them.”
Arturo Bustamante
member, Gator GamingLOCALTUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Maria Coady, a UF education associate professor, presents the Thomas J. Coady 
Memorial Scholarship Endowment in Emerson Hall on Monday. “T om taught me how motivation to learn and teaching go hand in hand, ” she said.
CAMPUS
IT WILL BE AWARDED TO 
JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
STUDYING HEALTH DISPARITIES.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
Maria Coady said goodbye to her son 
four months ago after he died in a motor-cycle accident, and now she has found a way to keep his memory alive.
Thomas Coady, 22, died following a 
Dec. 5 accident when he collided with a pickup truck at the intersection of North-west Eighth Avenue and 34th Street. An-other student, Halie Guelfi, also 22, was on 
the back of his motorcycle and died as well.
His mother, Maria Coady, a UF educa-
tion associate professor, created an endow-
ment in memory of her son.
“He was my heart,” she said.
The $30,000 endowment that was pre-
sented to a small crowd Monday afternoon at Emerson Alumni Center will go toward 
students in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences studying biology, just like Thomas.
The Thomas J. Coady Memorial Schol-
arship Endowment will be a fundraised award that will be given out every spring to a UF junior or senior studying health dis-parities, the field Thomas Coady wanted to 
dedicate his life to.
Carol Ritchie, Thomas Coady’s grand-
mother, said Thomas wanted to help peo-
ple.
“Those of us who knew Thomas knew 
he was a devoted, caring young man,” she said.
Michael Muir, Thomas Coady’s friend 
from Buchholz High School, described him 
as passionate about science and said he al-
ways put others before himself. 
“Tom actually taught me how to be a 
better person,” he said.
Maria Coady shared with family, friends 
and supporters a story about how she taught Thomas to read when he was 4 years old. 
She said the two of them crushed the 
“Harry Potter” series together, and her son 
would insist they pre-order the books be-
cause he could hardly wait for the next one 
to come out.
“Thomas was my inspiration, my voice 
of reason and my teacher,” she said.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
A proposed House bill would allow private 
adoption agencies with written moral or re-
ligious policies to refuse adoption to couples who violate those policies. 
House Bill 7111, sponsored by Florida Rep. 
Jason Brodeur, passed the Judiciary Commit-tee on April 2.
The bill would allow businesses to deny 
couples who don’t correlate with the agency’s policy, which could include gay and lesbian couples, mixed-faith couples and mixed-race couples, among others.
“My wife and I are a mixed 
couple — she’s Jewish, and I’m 
Catholic,” said Bob Rooks, the 
director of Florida’s Adoption In-formation Center. “There may be agencies that wouldn’t be willing to work with us because of a dif-ference in religion.”
Rep. Elizabeth Porter, a co-
sponsor of HB 1171, believes if people have a religious reason to object to 
something, they should be able to opt out of it.
“It will give more children homes and still 
allow people to adhere to their religious be-
liefs,” she said, “which is what this country was founded on.”
In 2010, Florida’s Third District Court of 
Appeals held Florida’s 1977 law banning adoption by gays was unconstitutional. Since then, same-sex couples have been allowed to 
adopt in Florida.
Some private adoption agencies receive 
state funding, said Jim Akin, the executive di-
rector for the Florida chapter of the National Association of Social Workers.
But Porter said this isn’t justification for 
private agencies being required to allow gay couples to adopt children under their care.
“Couples will still have the ability to choose 
which adoption agency to facilitate their adop-tion,” Porter said.
There are currently about 80 private adop-
tion agencies in Florida, Akin said.
Terry Fleming, co-president of the Pride 
Community Center of North Central Florida, said even if the bill passes the House, it’s un-likely the legislation will become law because 
the House bill has no Senate companion. 
Without a Senate companion, the 
bill cannot become law.
Fleming compared the bill to 
recent religious freedom legisla-tion in Indiana.
“It’s an Indiana-style law that 
allows discrimination against LGBT freedoms in the guise of 
religious freedom,” Fleming said. 
“It’s very disappointing that some legislators feel they need to en-
shrine discrimination against the LGBT com-munity in Florida law.”
Florida’s adoption agencies serve more 
than 10,000 people per year, Rooks said. While he said the bill may be a barrier to couples looking to adopt, it isn’t a major one 
because most adoption agencies aren’t reli-
giously affiliated.
But Akin said the bill would limit the num-
ber of agencies couples could go to.
“When someone refuses to provide ser-
vices to you, that’s also discrimination,” Akin said. “We have 859 children that currently need homes. The focus should be on getting these children into homes.”UF student memorialized in 
scholarship endowment
FL bill aims to apply religious freedom to adoption agencies  Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Baby Gators
Drew Carlton, a 19-year-old UF microbiology and cell science sophomore and mem-
ber of the Florida Cicerones, leads a tour group through Turlington Plaza on Monday morning.
“Those of us who knew Thomas 
knew he was a devoted, caring young 
man.”
Carol Ritchie
grandmother of Thomas Coady
STATE
NEWSThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Reﬂ  ections on the 
UVA/Rolling Stone 
report
It seems a chapter of one of the year’s most grueling sto-
ries — one that encompasses journalism, college life and 
sexual assault — has come to an end.
We’re talking, of course, about the controversy sur-
rounding an article published last year by Rolling Stone, a 
story called “A Rape on Campus.” It told the horrifying story 
of a University of Virginia student identiﬁ  ed only as “Jackie,” 
who told a Rolling Stone contributing writer she had been 
gang-raped at a fraternity party her freshman year. “A Rape 
on Campus” repeated this story and criticized UVA adminis-
trators for bungling the investigation.
Since then, it’s become clear that, at the very least, much 
of the story is inaccurate or false. On Jan. 12, a police inves-
tigation concluded Jackie could not have been assaulted at 
the fraternity she accused in the story. As things began to fall 
apart, Rolling Stone submitted the story to the prestigious Co-lumbia University Graduate School of Journalism for review. 
The report, released Sunday night, conﬁ  rmed public doubts 
about the story.
The exhaustive report has been described as “a piece of 
journalism... about a failure of journalism.” It explores the 
ill-fated and poorly executed story. In summary, the story was 
riddled with inconsistencies and inaccuracies that would have 
dismissed Jackie’s story immediately, but they weren’t found out because the magazine was reluctant to challenge Jackie’s 
version of events. Multiple people at Rolling Stone neglected 
crucial elements of journalistic procedure, cutting corners to 
publish a story that turned out to be too awful to be true.
The writer, Sabrina Rubin Erdely, didn’t pressure Jackie 
into providing the names of the rapists and three friends she claimed had betrayed her. Erdely’s editor was okay with the decision to use pseudonyms in lieu of attribution, ignoring 
the standard journalistic practice of contacting all parties for their sides of the story. Copy editors decided to go along with 
the decision rather than challenge their superiors on the call.
Irresponsibility on this level comes with huge consequenc-
es. First and foremost, the story — meant to publicize a par-
ticularly horriﬁ  c example of sexual assault so prevalent on college campuses — did a massive disservice to victims. It 
will serve as one more piece of evidence against them in the 
court of public perception and one more hurdle to overcome 
in the pursuit of justice. 
A society which is already quick to dismiss their stories 
will point to Jackie and Rolling Stone as reasons she shouldn’t 
be believed.
It has disgraced Rolling Stone and tarnished the reputation 
of the fraternity, which will be suing the magazine for defa-
mation, and it has validated the rape apologists who eagerly 
hounded the story from the very beginning. The fact that they 
happened to be right about this one will encourage them to 
perpetuate their warped worldview.
That’s what’s so infuriating about all this: Rolling Stone 
let us all down. Its botched reporting was irresponsible, but it wasn’t a hit piece — it was a mistake, based on hubris and 
the unreliable testimony of a source. Erdely could have writ-
ten stories just as horrifying but true. 
The problem of sexual assault persists. Rolling Stone only 
set back efforts to stop it.Too much texting hinders real-life connections
This weekend I was watching “Catﬁ  sh,” a popular 
MTV series that brings together couples who have never seen each other face to face. In the episode, 22-year-old Daisy expressed doubt over the legiti-macy of a guy she met on Instagram and had been 
in touch with for the past few years.
I watched, mesmerized, as she admitted they had nev-
er spoken on the phone or video chatted on Skype before — texting is the only way they “talk” to each other.
As ridiculous as it seems to form a relationship with 
someone completely over text, it isn’t uncommon any-more. Texting has become one of our primary methods of communicating with other people, especially when we are beginning to get to know someone.
It’s not hard to ﬁ  gure out why. Texting is incredibly 
quick, convenient and easy. At the tips of our ﬁ  ngers, we can connect with another person without having to worry about awkward silences or uncomfortable slips of the tongue. Anytime and anywhere, we can craft the perfect response to the person we want to impress, never once having to venture out of our comfort zone. For those who are afraid or nervous to have face-to-face conversations, texting is a welcome alternative.
There is much to appreciate about texting, and it has 
certainly made our lives easier and more comfortable in many ways. But as technology continues to advance, we need to be careful not to let texting replace the more genuine and meaningful ways of connecting with other people.
According to a recent Brigham Young University study, 
constantly connecting through technology can actually cause disconnects in relationships. The study, which fo-
cused on 18- to 25-year-olds, found using texting as a way 
to make important decisions or settle arguments resulted in lower relationship quality for women. For men, too much texting lowered the relationship quality.
Additionally, an Intel study found more than 60 per-
cent of young adults believe relying too much on technol-ogy can be dehumanizing.
Sure, texting is perfect for making plans, expressing affection or touching base when you don’t have time to talk or meet up in real life, but it is a detached and ineffective way of having important conversations and building the foun-
dation for a relationship.
Communication extends so far 
beyond just words. Facial expres-
sions, tone of voice, eye contact, laughter and physical touch are in-credibly important forms of commu-nication texting can never provide. 
Though we can send emojis like faces, winks, kisses and hearts to show how we are feeling, isn’t it better to read 
those emotions on someone’s face instead of on a screen?
“There is a narrowness with texting,” BYU researcher 
Jonathan Sandberg said, “and you don’t get to see the 
breadth of a person that you need to see.”
Not only does constant texting deprive us of mean-
ingful interactions with other people, but it also hinders our ability to effectively process emotions and social cues. Scientists at the University of California, Los Angeles, re-cently observed two groups of sixth graders: One group 
went ﬁ  ve days without looking at any digital screen, and 
the other group spent that time continuing to use phones, computers and televisions.
The group of children who didn’t look at any digital 
screen performed vastly better than the others at reading and interpreting human emotions.
This research implies we are in desperate need of more 
genuine face-to-face conversations. The more we rely on texting as our main way of interacting with others, the 
more likely we are to become worse at talking to people 
in real life.
If we truly want to form meaningful and genuine con-
nections with other people, we should look into some-one’s eyes instead of into our screens. But ﬁ  rst, we have to be brave enough to put our phones down.
Moriah Camenker is UF a public relations senior. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
There’s a common misconception that once marriage 
equality becomes a national standard, the struggle the LGBTQ+ community faces will be over. But as the bills emulating the Religious Freedom and Restoration Act in Indiana and Arkansas show, discrimination of 
LGBTQ+ people goes way beyond their ability to marry and extends to denial of service.
Denying business to people based on 
their sexual orientation or gender iden-tity truly makes no sense, especially giv-en how so many businesses have had to close because of their reputations for discrimination. Just because a law jus-tiﬁ  es discrimination does not mean the market forces won’t act against a busi-ness that decides to deny service. Mak-ing it possible for businesses to voice their disapproval of marriage equality through denial of services just makes a state look bad.
While many believe marriage equality is the only issue 
that affects LGBTQ+ Americans, a focus on marriage equal-ity distracts from the fact that the LGBTQ+ community is still ﬁ  ghting for respect and more general equality. Many of these issues deal with the often forgotten “T” in LGBTQ+, which represents the transgender community. These include ﬁ  ghts over the most basic rights, such as being allowed to use pub-lic bathrooms. Transgender people can experience problems in gender-speciﬁ  c restrooms, which forces many to resort to completely avoiding public restrooms. This can affect their health and cause urinary tract infections, dehydration and kidney infections. No one should have to cause themselves health problems because they feel unsafe using public rest-rooms.
Sometimes within the college bubble it can be hard to see 
how life is outside it. In many parts of the country, discrimi-nation against LGBTQ+ people is a fact of life. Luckily, in Alachua County, there is a human rights ordinance that regu-lates discrimination, but scary things are happening in the Florida Legislature that undermine the rights of trans people.
Even though marriage equality was recently legalized in 
Florida, there are still no statewide anti-discrimination mea-sures that protect discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. With House Bill 583, the so-called “bath-room bill,” the Florida Legislature is attempting to pass a bill that would force trans individuals to use the bathroom of their legal gender and allows them to be sent to prison for up to 60 days if they get caught. This bill also allows owners of public accommodations to be sued for allowing trans people to use the bathroom that they feel most comfortable using. Essentially, this forces trans people to either avoid public re-strooms, risking health problems, or be sued or imprisoned.
The policy clearly seeks to humiliate trans people. It is dan-
gerous enough to be a trans person as it is, with trans women of color being at a particularly high risk of being victims of murder or other hate crimes. HB 583 makes discrimination legally acceptable and even encouraged to avoid lawsuits. It would penalize people who want to run inclusive businesses. 
In a time when trans people need to be protected and sup-
ported, it ostracizes them.
Of course, the root of this discrimination cannot be legis-
lated away. It’s naive to think laws will make people more inclusive and accepting overnight. The underlying prejudices will be here for a long time to come. But we can at least put standards in place for how trans people should be treated, starting with the ability to use a public restroom.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science freshman. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Long road to LGBTQ+ 
equality demonstrated 
by FL's trans bathroom billColumn
On March 30, Indiana native Purvi Patel 
was sentenced to 20 years in prison after she miscarried her pregnancy. 
Convicted in February, Patel was 
charged with feticide — illegally in-
ducing an abortion — and accused of giving birth to a baby, whom she then neglected, re-
sulting in the infant’s supposed death.
This case has so many weird, uncomfort-
able and downright shameful aspects about 
it, especially the fact that all information sur-rounding whether Patel actually allowed a baby to die or even committed feticide are incredibly vague and unreli-
able.
However, despite extreme discontinuities in the facts 
of the trial, Patel has now been sentenced. The next 20 
years of her life are gone.
Patel, 33, went to an emergency room in Indiana in 
July because of a miscarriage. She claimed the fetus had been stillborn, and she had abandoned it, not knowing what else to do. 
After police retrieved text messages she exchanged 
with a friend that discussed the possibility of taking pills 
to end her pregnancy, Patel was charged with feticide 
and felony child neglect.
To start, there is much debate over whether Patel’s 
child was stillborn. During the trial, doctors used arcane 
tests, such as whether the deceased baby’s lungs were 
able to ﬂ  oat in water, to determine whether the baby might have taken a breath after birth, thus not being stillborn.
Honestly, this seems like a highly unscientiﬁ  c meth-
od.
There is debate over whether Patel knew her baby 
might have been alive and what she could have done in the situation, being medically compromised herself at the time.
Despite these points of contention, there 
were bigger forces of prejudice playing in Pa-tel’s trial.
Patel’s case, although unusual because of 
the length of its sentence and the murkiness 
of the facts surrounding it, is nonetheless an 
example of how women who have had mis-
carriages or stillbirths are sometimes uncon-
sciously and shamefully depicted as criminals.
Indiana — a state making waves in the news lately for 
unsavory law-making decisions — is now the ﬁ  rst state to 
have a state-level feticide law that was used to success-
fully prosecute a woman for trying to have self-induced abortion, although there have been other instances in the U.S. of women being charged with other crimes after taking abortion pills while not on prescription.
This case is disturbing to any woman who views her-
self as an individual with bodily autonomy and a value outside of a baby incubator. 
Pregnancy loss and miscarriage are not totally uncom-
mon; 10 to 25 percent of clinically known pregnancies result in miscarriage. Should every woman who has had a miscarriage or discussed the possibility of inducing an abortion with a friend be treated as a blatant murderer?
The idea of prosecuting a woman who might have 
suffered through the traumatic experience of a miscar-riage, especially with such broad assumptions and dis-crepancies occurring in the trial process, is highly offen-sive to Patel and to women everywhere in America who 
have undergone similar circumstances.
The treatment of the Patel case is especially unsettling 
because it raises questions about our entire health care 
system and the inequalities and prejudices within it.
Should we hesitate to seek medical treatment after a 
painful, damaging experience, such as a miscarriage, be-
cause of the chance our request for help might be viewed 
as incriminating?
Too often, scared, uniformed and isolated people in 
dire medical situations avoid professional treatment be-cause of the fear and concern generated by this bias, 
which only leads to more suffering overall. Perhaps Pa-
tel’s case is one such example. 
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations 
sophomore. Her column appears on Tuesdays. Indiana miscarriage case and feticide law unjust 
for convicted, setback to women's body rightsColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
In a time when trans people 
need to be protected and 
supported, it ostracizes them."This case is disturbing to 
any woman who views herself 
as an individual with bodily 
autonomy and a value outside 
of a baby incubator."
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Pride Prom 
Sajhmori Dunn, a 20-year-old UF nuclear engineering sophomore, and Laura Perez, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology sophomore, pose in a photo booth at the Queer Prom in Ustler Hall on Monday. The prom was held as part of Pride Awareness Month.
THEY CAUSED $40 BILLION 
WORTH OF DAMAGE LAST YEAR. 
By Shelby Pulley
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two of the world’s most destructive spe-
cies of termites are creating hybrid colonies 
in South Florida, and they may be more re-
sistant to pesticides.
A UF study published last month found 
that Asian and Formosan subterranean ter-
mites are swarming at the same time and 
now mating.
Nan-Yao Su, an entomology and nema-tology professor at UF’s Fort Lauderdale 
Research and Education Center, said he noticed both species migrated from their usual regions. In 2012, his team discovered 
the Asian termite spread from the Caribbe-
an islands to South Florida. The Formosan termite, which originated in China, is now established throughout Georgia, North Caro-
lina and northern Florida.
Both species of termites were responsible 
for about $40 billion worth of damage last 
year, Su said.
Their recent migrations also caused an 
overlap in swarming seasons. Although the Asian termites’ swarming season occurs from February to April and the Formosan termites’ is from April to June, the hybrids were first discovered last May.
In the lab, the hybrids were exposed to 
different termiticides. However, Su discov-ered they are more resistant to chemicals than any other termite species.
“When chemicals are put into the soil, the 
hybrids simply move on to another house-hold,” Su said.
John Scott, owner of Gainesville Pest 
Control, said a new species of termite will force his business to look into new treatment 
methods and ways to prevent infestations.
Scott’s company mainly uses the chemi-
cal Termidor for infestations.
“In my years of experience, I have found 
that this is the most successful treatment for 
termites,” Scott said.
Su said he plans to explore how much 
damage the hybrid termites are capable of. It will take about three years for Su and his 
team to gather information during each spe -
cies’ swarming season.UF researching termite species resistant to pesticides
LOCAL
By Nicole Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
ngomez@alligator.org
The end of the road is near for 
Northwest 16th Avenue lane clo-
sures.
All four lanes of 16th Avenue 
between Northwest 22nd Street 
and Northwest 34th Street should 
be opened by the end of May, said Brian Singleton, an Alachua County transportation engineer-ing manager and project manager.
Singleton said open lanes will 
be shifted from the south to north side of the road this week.
Between Northwest 22nd 
Street and Northwest 31st Drive, the reconstruction serves to re-move clay underneath the road, which caused bumps and cracks in the asphalt.
The repair is part of a larger 
county project affecting North-west 16th Avenue from North-west 13th Street to Northwest 57th Terrace. The entire area will have lane closures on certain Sun-days and week nights between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. until the project 
is finished in August, Singleton 
said.
The final part of the project 
will involve giving the whole stretch a new layer of asphalt.
The construction project, 
which includes sidewalk widen-ing and repair of the retaining walls, cost about $7.5 million, 
which Singleton said comes from 
gas taxes and impact fees.
Alisa Woofter, owner of Al-
ternatives Global Marketplace in Millhopper Shopping Center, said the construction has affected her store’s business. 
The median outside the plaza’s 
entrance was changed, Woofter, 
33, said, which may have made it 
confusing for customers to get to the store.
“The road was really bad,” she 
said, “so I’m glad to see it fixed.”Construction on NW 
16th Ave. nearing end
THEY WERE HIT ON 
WALDO ROAD.
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police released the 
name of the female pedestrian who 
died after being hit by a car Friday 
night.
At about 10:45 p.m., Shannon 
Michelle Lynn Justus, 44, and Dan-
iel William Buhi, 40, were crossing 
Northeast Waldo Road near 16th Av-
enue when Eric Bernard Darby, 34, hit them with his 1987 Chevy Monte Carlo, Gainesville Police  spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Justus was pronounced dead at 
the scene, and Buhi was taken to UF Health Shands Hospital where he remains in critical condition. He is expected to survive, Tobias said. Both Justus and Buhi were listed as homeless.
A witness told police Darby had 
a green light, Tobias said. No charg-es against Darby are expected as of press time.
Traffic was blocked in both direc-
tions for several hours following the accident, Tobias said.
Justus’ family learned of her 
death after they contacted the medi-cal examiner’s office over the week-
end. Contacting family members of 
homeless victims can be difficult, Tobias added.
The last time a pedestrian died 
after being hit by a car was Jan. 9, Tobias wrote, when UF student Rudejerry G. Declasse stepped into traffic on the 1200 block of North-east Waldo Road — four blocks from 
where Justus and Darby were hit.GPD releases name of 
fatal accident victim
By The Associated Press
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — A fraternity at the 
University of Virginia announced Monday that it will 
“pursue all available legal action” against Rolling Stone, saying a Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism review shows the maga-
zine acted recklessly and defamed its 
members by publishing an article that falsely accused them of gang rape.
“The Rolling Stone article viewed by 
millions fueled a court of public opinion that ostracized Phi Kappa Psi members and led to vandalism of the fraternity house,” the fraternity’s statement said.
“Clearly our fraternity and its mem-
bers have been defamed, but more importantly we fear this entire episode may prompt some victims to remain in the shadows, fearful to confront their attackers,” said Stephen Scipione, president of the UVA’s Phi Kappa Psi chapter.
Rolling Stone’s “shock narrative” about sexual 
assaults at UVA was rife with bad journalism, and the magazine has nobody but its own staff to blame, Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism Dean Steve Coll said Monday at a Q&A session about the review he led at the magazine’s request.
The magazine pledged to review its practices and 
removed “A Rape on Campus” from its website, but publisher Jann S. Wenner said he won’t fire anyone 
despite the blistering review. 
In a New York Times interview, 
Wenner described “Jackie,” whose claims provided the article’s narrative thread, as “a really expert fabulist sto-ryteller.”
“Rolling Stone Magazine admits 
its staff engaged in reckless behavior 
while covering this story, yet the maga-zine refuses to take any action against 
those involved in reporting the story or address needed changes to its editorial process. The reporter in question not only failed to apologize to members of Phi Kappa Psi, but doesn’t even acknowledge the three witnesses she quoted in the article but never interviewed. This is a clear and sad indication that the magazine is not serious about its journalistic obliga-tions,” the fraternity said.UVA fraternity suing Rolling 
Stone for retracted rape story
NATIONAL
NEWS“When chemicals are put into the soil, 
the hybrids simply move on to another 
household.” 
Nan-Yao Su
entomology and nematology professor, UFTUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator 
Showstoppers
Haley Straub, an 18-year-old UF animal sciences freshman, dances to the beat of a traditional West African drum 
Monday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The group, Agbedidi, is part of UF’s West African Dance class. Time Lapse: A Fashion Show was hosted by Volunteers for International Student Affairs (VISA).
Staff Report
UF is teeming with brilliant people working on cutting-edge 
technology that saves lives, reveals mysteries and solves prob-
lems. We’re here to share the latest in UF’s advancements, research and studies.
Take me out to the ball game
A UF study has found that baseball players in the South 
are susceptible to more injuries. The region’s warm weather 
allows for year-round baseball, which leads to throwing-arm overuse.
The study, according to UF News Center, shows that col-
lege baseball pitchers in the South are at a 5.5 percent higher risk for tearing a ligament in their elbow, an injury that pri-marily plagues pitchers. Former high school baseball pitchers in southern states are also 6.2 percent more likely to tear the 
ligament than former pitchers in northern states.
Of the 58 injuries they found in collegiate pitchers, 40 oc-
curred in the Southeastern Conference, and 18 occurred in the 
Big Ten conference.
Got milk?According to a UF study, vitamin D may decrease pain and 
improve function in obese people with osteoarthritis, the most common form of arthritis.
The study, according to UF News Center, indicated that 
obese individuals who suffer from osteoarthritis and have high vitamin D levels could walk, balance and rise better than obese participants with lower vitamin D levels. This suggested a correlation between obesity and vitamin D levels for tasks such as standing from a seated position.
Researchers analyzed blood samples for vitamin D levels 
from a racially diverse group of 256 middle-aged and older adults. Among the 126 obese participants, 68 were vitamin D-deficient while only 29 of the 130 non-obese participants 
were deficient.
Alcohol, death and taxes
UF Health researchers found that increasing state alco-
hol taxes can prevent fatal alcohol-related car crashes. In the study, according to UF News Center, they discovered these crashes declined 26 percent in Illinois after a 2009 increase in alcohol tax was instituted.
There was a 22-percent reduction in crashes involving alco-
hol-impaired drivers and a 25-percent decrease with extremely 
drunk drivers.
The research team used records of fatal crashes from the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from January 
2001 to December 2011. They looked at the 104 months before the tax was enacted and the 28 months after it was enacted to see whether the effects of the tax change differed according to a driver’s age, gender, race and blood alcohol concentration at the time of a fatal motor vehicle crash.Research roundup:
baseball injuries, milk and alcoholCAMPUS
By Paige Levin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Even Texans are looking to the UF 
Wetlands Club to buy cypress trees.
Increased advertising launched cross-
country excitement over $5 3-foot cy-
press seedlings and $10 5-foot cypress 
plants. Reaching out to more campus 
departments increased the club’s sales from 200 seedlings last year to 150 seed-lings in the first few weeks, said Mark Clark, the club’s faculty adviser and a UF professor of wetland ecology.
Haley Glaab, the fundraising chair, 
said she received more emails than she knew what to do with.
“I received an order for a tree for someone in Texas, and I don’t even 
know how to ship a cypress tree to 
them,” the UF environmental manage-ment sophomore said.
Money raised from the fundraiser 
goes back to the Wetlands Club for trips and activities. Clark said the cost of growing seedlings is low, so profit is high.
“We certainly have a good revenue 
stream for club activities because we purchased 500 seedlings for only 30 
cents each,” he said. “Everything else is 
free.”
Glaab, 19, said cypress trees are a 
good investment because they can be planted anywhere with sun and provide great shade.She is confident the club will sell all 
500 prepared seedlings.
“Our success rate has been excep-
tionally high,” Glaab said. “It’s crazy that we can go so far, and this has never happened before.”
Though the cypress fundraiser is the 
club’s main source of revenue, Glaab said she also sells apparel and hopes to sell different types of plants in the future.
“We want to sell smaller plants that 
are more mobile, like pitcher plants,” 
she said. “We’re trying for smaller house 
plants that are more decorative and geared toward students.”
She said the seedlings are selling out 
quickly. Those who want to order a cy-press can email ufwetland@gmail.com.Wetlands club cypress trees selling fastTUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balconyParking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA TownhouseDouble balcony; One left!$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental 
School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-
1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $495
Small Pet ok
352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-15-
14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-
cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
$475/mo May 1st Furn'ed Pvt masterBR 
incl utils, WiFi, W/D, TV. Quiet w/ 3 males in UF Midtown, 13th/8th area easy Bus, Bike routes. ROOM@COX.NET / ph(352) 338-1113    4-13-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsTUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR  11 
 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12Sell your running or not running carUp to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
Part-time student positionsat GatorWell:  STRIVE peer educators & wellness educators for the Health Hut. Details on our websitegatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu         4-10-15-4-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-14
College Female needed as Tutor/Driver 
for 7-8th grader. Strong math, organiza -
tion. Dependable. MTWRF 3:15p to 7:00p, Periodic weekend/late eve hours. Call 352-514-8944.    4-13-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsBy Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
Over the last few seasons, the Florida Gators secondary 
has garnered a nickname: “No Fly Zone.” 
As Kirk Callahan settles into his new role as UF's defen-
sive backs coach this Spring, it won’t be too difficult to con-
tinue to build on that tradition.
Returning starters include 2014 All-American Vernon 
Hargreaves III, sophomores Jalen Tabor and Duke Dawson, senior Brian Poole, and juniors Marcus Maye and Keanu Neal.
Having this kind of talented depth in the secondary is 
nothing short of a luxury in college football, and Callahan is 
grateful for the talent he inherited this spring.
“It’s a good problem to have,” Callahan said. “The great 
thing is the competition level. Each guy brings his own little 
variety, his own uniqueness to it.”
While the aforementioned starters were typically first or 
second on the defensive depth chart last season, new de-
fensive coordinator Geoff Collins has a different philosophy 
when it comes to filling out a depth chart. 
Instead of listing guys specifically at first or second team, 
he uses an “above the line” approach, meaning players 
above the line are included in the defensive back rotation.
“Let’s roll guys and keep guys fresh because if you sit 
there and play in the SEC East, you’re going to see teams 
that play with 10, 11 personnel, up-tempo speeds,” Callahan said. “We want to, like the d-line, keep guys going in fresh 
because at the end of the day, we’ve got a lot of playmakers 
and we have to put them in position to make plays.” 
Callahan touched on the versatility of the group by add-
ing there are six guys repping at the nickel spot this spring. 
Maye and Poole saw the most time at the nickel spot last 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Vernon Hargreaves III runs to catch a ball during practice at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Hargreaves led the Southeastern Conference in pass breakups last season with 13 and finished the season with three interceptions, good for second on the Gators' roster
Florida secondary building around depth, experience
Stay up to date with alligatorSports
For everything you want to know about UF athletics, go to alligator.org/sportsFreshman and Gainesville native T aylor T omlinson has been one of the UF women's golf team's most reliable players this season. Read the story on page 16.
Injury Update
UF offensive lineman Rod Johnson did not practice on Monday with a stinger 
that left his hand numb, UF coach Jim McElwain announced. Johnson is one of UF's most experienced offensive linemen, with three starts. The Gators now have only six healthy scholarship offensive linemen available for Spring practice.TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
It’s time for Kelvin Taylor to step up.
He is no longer sitting behind Matt Jones or 
Mack Brown. 
He’s going to have to be the workhorse out of 
the backfield this season.
He has to be more consistent heading into his 
third season and not have flashes of greatness in one game, and then completely disappear in the next.
Coach Jim McElwain brought Tim Skipper with 
him from Colorado State to coach Taylor and the other running backs.
And so far this Spring, Skipper has seen posi-
tive things from Taylor.“KT has looked very good. He has real good 
feet, that’s the number one thing that sticks out,” 
Skipper said. 
“The kid is a competitor. There hasn’t been a 
practice where he hasn’t showed up. He brings 
his ‘A’ game every day. He lets the defense know 
about it.”
In his first two seasons, Taylor rushed for 1,073 
yards on 227 carries. 
Last season, Taylor ran for 565 yards and six 
touchdowns.
But Taylor racked up most of his yardage in 
one game against Georgia, when he rushed for a 
career-high 197 yards with two touchdowns.
In the other 11 games he played in, Taylor 
rushed for a combined 368 yards and didn’t rush for more than 50 yards on seven different occa-sions.
The statistics speak for themselves, but his in-
consistent season last year isn’t getting in the way of Taylor trying to become a better player.
“He just brings a lot of energy, I enjoy coach-
ing him,” Skipper said. “He’s here whether we’re Running back seeks fresh start
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
With Duke holding a 66-58 with 
1:28 left on the clock, Wisconsin had 
one last chance for a comeback in the NCAA Championship game.
A Frank Kaminsky three and a 
Nigel Hayes dunk cut the Badgers’ deficit to 66-63 with just 50 sec-onds remaining.
But the Blue Devils 
held tight. 
Duke (35-4) iced 
the game with a pair of Tyus Jones free throws to earn a 68-63 victory and the fifth national title in program history on Monday in Indianapolis.
Jones was named the tourna-
ment's Most Valuable Player af-ter scoring 32 points on 10-of-21 shooting and making nine of his 10 
free-throw attempts in the last two 
games. 
He scored eight of the Blue Dev-
ils’ final 12 points against Wisconsin.
Coming out of the half tied 31-31, 
Wisconsin (36-4) dominated the first 
eight minutes of the second half, out-scoring Duke 20-14 to take a 51-45 
lead.
But following the 
Under-12 timeout, it was all Duke, shooting 7-for-14 from the field and sinking six of its final 10 free throws to 
seal the win.
Kaminsky led the Badgers with 
21 points and 12 rebounds. 
Hayes (13), Sam Dekker (12) and 
Bronson Koenig (10) also posted double-digit scoring efforts for Wis-consin.Duke basketball wins 
NCAA Championship SEE DEFENSE,  PAGE 15
SEE KELVIN,  PAGE 15NCAA“This offense here is just an offense that's 
really, to be honest, just a running back's 
dream. ... I think it just fits me perfect.”
Kelvin T aylor
UF running back 14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
Saturday was an important step 
for Florida.
Obviously, the Gators needed to 
ﬁ  nish ﬁ  rst or second to advance to 
the NCAA Semiﬁ  nals, something 
they accomplished easily.
But by step-
ping back under 
the microscope, feeling the pres-sure and deliver-ing, the Gators proved to themselves that they have made strides from the Southeastern 
Conference Championships.
From a scoring standpoint, 
Florida didn’t improve much — a 
197.475 compared to the 197.400 the team scored in the SECs.
But scoring is typically lower 
in regional competition, and com-pared to recent UF history, Satur-day was impressive.
Other than a 198.400 scored by 
Florida in 2013 when the university hosted the regional in Gainesville, this weekend’s regional perfor-mance was the program’s best since 2010. The championship-win-
ning team in 2014 only managed to 
score a 197.050.
More than anything, though, the 
team showed Rhonda Faehn com-posure and unity throughout the competition, attributes the coach 
was looking for and felt weren’t 
quite where they needed to be two weeks ago.
“The best thing I thought they 
showed was togetherness on the ﬂ  oor,” she said. “They didn’t seem rattled in any sense, we seemed completely together and focused 
only on what we 
were doing and 
nothing else.”
That was 
evident after Florida’s slow 
start on bars, something that could have easily caused the team to get nervous right before competing on beam — the event which gave the 
Gators problems competing for the 
conference title. 
But the group showed no signs 
of anxiety and scored a progres-sively higher score on each event.
While this was an important im-
provement for the Gators, there are more steps to be made before the team travels to Texas in two weeks for the NCAA Semiﬁ  nals and poten-tially the Super Six competition.
There, the teams will all be 
capable of scoring well into the 197-range and potentially the 198-range, and there will be no 
room for errors.
Any little mistake will throw the pressure right back onto Florida’s 
gymnasts, a pressure they have not 
felt all season.
This week was good, but every 
element of Florida’s arsenal will need to be in peak form come April 
17.
“It’s totally different,” Faehn 
said. “(Regionals) is very challeng-ing and it’s very stressful because you don’t want your season to end right there. That’s the stressful part of that.
“But the national championship 
is a whole ‘nother thing.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan celebrates with teammates following her bars routine at the Southeastern Conference 
Championships on March 21 in Duluth, Georgia.
UF held composure during regionals, still have room to improveFLORIDA FORCED 19 TURNOVERS 
AGAINST GEORGETOWN.
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
If the Gators buys into the old saying that 
defense wins championships, Florida took a 
step in the right direction toward that ultimate goal in their thumping of Georgetown on Sat-urday.
The No. 9 Gators (9-4, 3-0 Big East) took 
care of the Hoyas (2-9, 1-1 Big East) 18-4 on Saturday in Gainesville, and while UF’s of-fense displayed its typical dominance, the defense turned in its best performance of the season, coach Amanda O’Leary said.
Florida held Georgetown to four goals on 
just 17 shots while forcing the Hoyas into 19 turnovers and 26 ground balls. 
Junior goalkeeper Mary-Sean Wilcox made 
seven saves, and Caroline Fitzgerald and Ni-cole Graziano each forced four ground balls – a season-high for Fitzgerald and a career-high for Graziano.
“It was probably, in my opinion, the best 
we’ve played all season,” O’Leary said on Monday. “Offensively, defensively, through the ride – we truly played a complete game.”
O’Leary praised her defensive line and 
defensive midﬁ  elders for their one-on-one de-fense, their communication and their leader-ship throughout Saturday’s win. 
Florida displayed its full 
potential against George-town by utilizing its relent-less offense and powerful 
defense — a combination 
the Gators have been trying to perfect all season.
Sophomore Taylor Bresnahan was a 
player who, O’Leary said, had the best game she’s played all year in the win over George-town. Bresnahan has played at defender and midﬁ  elder this season, and has consistently brought a strong defensive presence to each 
game she’s played in. She said high intensity 
and trust among her teammates is the key to sustaining that balance between a strong of-fense and defense.
“It goes back to intensity, and just playing 
hard like we can, playing hard for each oth-er,” Bresnahan said. “It’s just easier to know that the person next to you has your back.”
O’Leary was quick to point out that there 
are still areas to improve upon, but now that Florida is ﬁ  guring out how to play with that combination of high-powered offense and brute defense, the Gators have the potential to be one of the most dangerous teams in the country heading toward the postseason.
“It’s fun to watch,” O’Leary said. “As 
someone who has seen them play day-in and 
day-out, when you watch it all come together, 
it’s an exciting time.”
Defense showing up during conference play for UF lacrosse
GYMNASTICSWilcox
TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
meeting in the morning or practic-
ing later in the evening it doesn’t 
matter. That kid is going after it. A real student of the game, works real hard and it’s been a 
joy coaching him.”
Doug Nussmeier has been the 
offensive coordinator for a num-
ber of talented running backs 
who have run for more than 
1,000 yards in a season.
At Alabama, Nussmeier was 
the coordinator who saw T.J. Yeldon and Eddie Lacy pass the 
century mark in yardage, with 
Yeldon doing it twice.
Throw in McElwain who was 
the offensive coordinator for two 
Heisman finalists: Mark Ingram 
won the award in 2009 and Trent Richardson finished in third.  
Both of those guys have the 
background that Skipper doesn’t.
This year will be the first time 
since Skipper was at Fresno State from 2006-2008 that he will be coaching the running back posi-
tion.
But under the leadership of 
McElwain and Nussmeier, Skip-per is coaching a position in a 
style that tailors to the running 
backs on the team.   
“This offense here is just an 
offense that’s really, to be hon-
est, just a running back’s dream,” Taylor said when speaking to 
the media last week. “It’s perfect 
for a back. Zone read, one cut, downhill, catch the ball out of the backfield. You got so many things 
you can do in this offense, and I 
think it just fits me perfect, so I’m excited.”
With the history of an offense 
that’s been prolific in producing 
some of the best running backs 
in college the past few years, he will have big expectations on his shoulders.
Taylor, however, isn’t lacking 
any confidence.
“This is going to be my best 
season I’m going to have at Flor-ida,” Taylor said. “I feel like this 
right here is going to be my best 
season. I’m just so excited. My first two years, I mean they were decent, but I know I can do way 
better.
“So that’s all I’m looking for-
ward to.” KELVIN,  from pg 13Taylor expects to be more consistent in his junior season
Alligator File Photo
Kelvin T aylor celebrates during Florida's 38-20 win against Georgia on Nov. 2 at EverBank Field in 
Jacksonville. T aylor will be one of the Gators' primary running backs next season.
season.
“We’ve been positioning people in different groupings to 
see how people play with each other,” Callahan said. “One guy with this guy to see how he works with this safety and vice versa. As of right now we’ve got about six guys repping at the nickel. I mean we have six guys rolling at the nickel posi-tion that can play at a variety of different spots.”
Callahan was on staff at Florida in 2010 as a staff intern and again in 2011 as a graduate assistant. In both seasons, Florida finished in the top 15 nationally in passing defense. Callahan spent three seasons at UCF before returning to Florida in Janu-ary.
Callahan says that despite the Gators going 29-21 since the 
2011 season, the recruiting prowess of the Orange and Blue hasn’t worn off due to the  poor product on the field.
“You can sit there and say, ‘Ask anybody who was your fa-
vorite team growing up and so it was the Gators.’ I don’t think that’s been lost,” Callahan said. “It’s just at the end of the day, you’ve got to win.” DEFENSE,  from pg 13Six players are practicing at nickel cornerBASEBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Two weeks ago, when Florida and 
Stetson faced off for the first time in six years, the Hatters nearly upset a struggling UF team trying to find its rhythm.
Two weeks later, not much has 
changed.
No. 10 Florida (24-9) will host Stet-
son (18-15) tonight at 7 after dropping its second Southeastern Conference series of the season. A live stream of the game will air on SEC Network+.
UF lost its first series the weekend 
before defeating Stetson 9-6 on the road.
That March 24 contest held some 
unexpected hostility — two UF play-
ers were beaned, a Stetson pitcher 
was ejected, and the Hatters quickly 
turned a four-run deficit into a one-run lead in the bot-
tom of the sixth in-
ning.
Ultimately, the 
Gators escaped with a win, but 
their bullpen’s streak of medioc-
rity has ensued.
UF sits in sixth place in the con-
ference in ERA (3.45), saves (9), runs 
allowed (131) and 13th in home runs 
allowed (24).
Meanwhile, Stetson is sixth out of 
nine Atlantic Sun Conference teams in hits (33) and runs (20) but is first in ERA (2.67). The Hatters are also on a four-game winning streak.
“Its up to us to get to work, 
we’ve got to get better,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said on Sunday. “We’ve got a good Stetson team coming Tues-day… so we’ve got to play better Tuesday night.”Florida faces Stetson in 
midweek game tonightBy Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
The teams at the Old Waverly Collegiate Cham-
pionship on Monday all had a common enemy: the 
rain.
The first of two days at the tournament in West 
Point, Mississippi, was delayed due to a morning rain delay that eventually led to playing through the effects.
Play suspended for the day during 
Round 2 due to weather conditions. 
Florida as a team shot four-under-
par through part of Round 2 to secure a share of third place.
The Gators sit at three-under-par 
for the tournament, four strokes off the lead.
"They're really working hard and they're buying 
into what JC (Deacon) and I are teaching them," 
assistant coach John Handrigan said in a release.
After a delayed start, the Florida men’s golf team 
shot 5-under-par to take an early lead through five 
holes and through the front nine, the Gators shot 6-under-par.
Everything took a turn for the worse when senior 
J.D. Tomlinson was the only player who shot under par on the back nine holes. The Gators totaled 11 bogeys, two double bogeys and an eight-shot par 
four by freshman Alejandro Tosti on the back nine.
Despite some poor play, Tosti was able to birdie 
three of his final six holes to end the round at three-
over-par.
The Gators were led in round one by seniors Eric 
Banks and Tomlinson who both shot under-par for the round and placed inside the top-10 at the end of 
the round on Monday.
The team was in fourth position af-
ter shooting a combined five-over-par 
heading into the second half of day 
one.
Heading into round two, the Gators 
again came out firing, shooting five-under-par through each of the players’ first five holes.
Tomlinson and Banks are both sit-
ting at 4-under-par for the tournament and are tied for fifth after Day 1.
Tosti is tied for 31st through part of Round 2 af-
ter shooting 2-over-par for the tournament, sopho-more Ryan Orr shot 3-over-par for a share of 37th, and junior A.J. Crouch rounds out the five for the Gators at 4-over-par.
The Gators return to action today for the re-
mainder of the Old Waverly Collegiate Champion-ship and will try to improve upon their third place standing.UF tied for third at Old Waverly
O'Sullivan
 MEN'S
GOLF
Key players returning in the secondary
Vernon Hargreaves III  
50 tackles, three interceptions, 13 pass breakups
Keanu Neal
45 tackles, three interceptions, four pass breakups
Jalen T abor
31 tackles, one interception, eight pass breakups
Brian Poole
45 tackles, four interceptions, 10 pass breakups
Marcus Maye
62 tackles, one interception, five pass breakups16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2015
By Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
Deciding where to attend col-
lege is arguably one of the hardest 
decisions a high school student must face.
But for women’s golf freshman 
and Gainesville native Taylor Tom-linson, her decision to attend the University of Florida wasn’t a hard one to make at all.
“Growing up in 
Gainesville, just being a Gator all my life, it’s really hard to go any-
where else,” Tomlin-
son said.
A big factor in her 
decision to become a Gator was the opportunity to stay near the people who know her best: her family.
“I wanted to be somewhere close 
enough where I can still be by my family, and still be close to them be-
cause we are a really tight-knit fam-
ily,” Tomlinson said.
One individual who celebrated 
her decision to stay in Gainesville was her brother J.D., the senior lead-er on the men’s golf team.
“I was really happy,” he said. 
“My family is here; it kept her here. … I was really glad she decided to 
stay.
“She’s always smiling, she’s al-
ways energetic, and she knows how 
to have fun.”
But before she could decide 
where to attend college, Tomlinson was becoming a student-athlete.
At Oak Hall School in Gainesville, 
Tomlinson was an all-around ath-
lete. She led the golf team in scoring 
each match during her senior season and represented the school as the individual district champion for four straight years. Her elite level of play had her ranked No. 2 in Florida and No. 10 in Golfweek’s girls’ junior rankings for the Class of 2014.
“For her it’s a lot of ﬁ  rsts, a lot of 
new experiences,” Florida women’s golf coach Emily Glaser said. “We feel like as much as we can get her into those types of situations, and playing and competing, the more comfortable she’ll be.”
With her ﬁ  rst year as a Gator 
winding down, Tomlinson has had an excellent opportunity to adjust 
to the college game by competing in each of the Gators’ tourna-ments this season, ﬁ  n-ishing in the top-25 on ﬁ  ve occasions.
In February, Tomlin-
son had the best tour-nament of her career, 
completing the Allstate 
Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf 
Championship with a three-round score of 4-over-par and a collegiate best sixth-place ﬁ  nish.
“It was really nice to see the re-
sults ﬁ  nally come,” Tomlinson said. “I’ve been playing pretty well, but the scores haven’t been showing. It 
really boosted (my) conﬁ  dence.”
While her play can be attributed 
to a boost of individual conﬁ  dence, 
her success has resonated with her teammates as well.
“When she plays well, being only 
a freshman, it gives the rest of the team a lot of conﬁ  dence,” Glaser said.
Despite Tomlinson’s success on 
the course, golf is just one of the many sports where she excels.
In high school, Tomlinson also 
played on the women’s basketball team for four years. During that time, Tomlinson was a catalyst on both offense and defense.
“She wanted the ball at the end 
of the game,” said Eric Ringdahl, Tomlinson’s high school basketball coach. “We wanted her to have the ball at the end of the game.”
As a senior, Tomlinson became accustomed to getting the ball, ﬁ  n-ishing the season with an average of 
11.5 points, 1.8 assist, 4 rebounds 
and 4 steals per game. 
Tomlinson ended her basketball 
career on a high note, as her team 
won their second district champion-
ship in three years. But her play went beyond the stat line and banners.
“It was physical, but also cere-
bral,” Ringdahl said. “They (Taylor and J.D., who also played basket-ball at Oak Hall) would sit there and watch a team play. They’re watching 
the tendencies of the other players. 
A lot of kids don’t do that and they did.”
While Ringdahl raved about 
Tomlinson’s basketball ability, he, along with the rest of the staff at Oak Hall, knew her becoming a collegiate golfer was inevitable.
“Her plan was to go and play at 
UF,” Ringdahl said, “and she never lost sight of that goal.”
And while golf and basketball 
don’t have any direct correlation, Tomlinson said the four years of bas-ketball helped her improve the men-tal aspect of being an athlete.
“If you make a mistake in basket-ball you just have to get right back into it,” Tomlinson said, “and I think 
with golf that helps in the sense that 
if you make a bad shot, you have to refocus as quickly as possible.”
Tomlinson has made mistakes. 
She’s had bad rounds and she has had bad ﬁ  nishes. All golfers do.
But as a freshman, getting accli-
mated to a new environment and the grind of being a Division I athlete is 
something that will go a long way in 
helping her improve as a golfer.
“I can see her being the leader of 
this team in the future. She brings that kind of quality to our team,” Glaser said. “I think it’s exciting for us as coaches to see the future out there.”
Aaron Albright / Alligator
UF freshman T aylor T omlinson putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on UF’s Mark 
Bostick Golf Course.
Early Success: Gainesville native leading UF in freshman year
WOMEN’S
GOLF“Her plan was to go and play 
at UF, and she never lost sight 
of that goal.”
Eric Ringdahl
Oak Hall School basketball coach