We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 4 THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
UF soccer caps road trip tonight
Florida plays Miami at 7, pg 18.
Hispanic-Latinx culture celebrated at assembly
UF President Kent Fuchs also spoke at the event, pg. 8
Check out our ﬁ  rst Avenue of the semester
Record label concert, music roundup and a Netﬂ  ix drinking 
game are some of the highlights, pgs. 9-12Bid Day photo story 
The new members were greeted on the 
lawns of their new houses, pg. 7
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Rick Nelson (right), 57, an advisor and educational training specialist at the Disability Resource Center, 
explains the functions of testing rooms to visitors during the DRC open house event at Cypress Hall on Wednesday.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF junior Adreenah 
Wynn came to college, she regis-
tered with the Disability Resource 
Center to be prepared if she got 
sick.
The 21-year-old has sickle cell 
disease, a blood disorder that can cause frequent infections and se-vere pain.
Now Wynn is a resident as-
sistant of the new Cypress Hall, which houses a new location for the DRC.
UF Student Government and 
the DRC hosted an open house at 
Cypress on Wednesday. Although 
Cypress holds part of the DRC on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor, some facilities are still next door in Reid Hall.
“It’s like an extension of the 
original DRC, and I think that’s great,” said Wynn, a graphic de-sign and art-plus-technology stu-dent.
UF created another space for the DRC because it was getting too crowded in Reid, said Zeel Patel, a student staff member for 
the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce.
“We want to make this the 
best experience for students here 
at the University of Florida,” the 
21-year-old said.
Currently, 1,700 students use 
the DRC’s facilities, Patel said.
The new facilities include test-
ing rooms, a computer lab and two learning specialists, who help 
students design their courses in a way that ﬁ  ts their needs, she said.  
The learning specialists can 
make students with learning dis-abilities full-time, even if they are taking fewer than 12 credits, Patel said. Textbooks can be convert-ed to a larger font or audio and 
braille if needed. Rooms can be 
created for students needing test-ing accommodations.
“For some disabilities, say a 
student needs to talk out loud, we have a quiet room (in Cypress),” New Cypress Hall dorm houses Disability Resource Center By Ariana Figueroa 
and Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writers
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
jmcpherson@alligator.org
A third political party will come into play in 
the Fall UF Student Government election cycle.
Liberal Arts and Sciences Sen. Chris Boy-
ett broke away from the Access Party to start the Impact Party, which he said is focused on 
bringing together both parties to achieve a 
common goal.
The party is currently made up of two 
Swamp Party members — District A Sen. Su-san Webster and former Director of External Affairs Blake Murphy — and two Access Party senators — Liberal Arts and Sciences Sens. Saneh Ste. Claire and Boyett.
Boyett said he registered the third party 
because he wants to overcome gridlock in the Senate chambers, such as the approval of 13 agency department heads in the executive branch.
After the ﬁ  rst seven department heads were 
approved at the April 21 Senate meeting, it took the executive committee — which consists of 
three Swamp and three Access Party members 
— 105 days to compromise and bring a second set of nominees to the Senate ﬂ  oor. The ﬁ  nal six were approved Aug. 4.
“I don’t think the students deserve that,” 
Boyett said. “I think they deserve much bet-ter.”
While minority party leader Michael Christ (Access, Graduate) said it’s unfortunate one of his members abandoned ship, the Access Party is still determined to accomplish its goals.
“We’re going to continue to run on our 
message of expanding Student Government to be for every Gator,” Christ said.
Majority Swamp Party leader Sen. Charlie 
Brown Jr. could not be reached for comment as of press time.
Boyett said he is conﬁ  dent students will be 
interested in slating with the party come Fall elections.
“We want results, and we want students to 
be happy,” he said.Third political party forms ahead of Fall elections 
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Throughout the week, students have been 
invited to catch a behind-the-scenes look into 
the lives of well-known faculty and students, 
and today, UF President Kent Fuchs will take 
hold of the account.  
They have the chance to take selﬁ  es, stream 
videos and doodle across the UF Snapchat this week.
No matter where they were, UF students 
and alumni saw Ted Spiker, the Department of Journalism chairman, jam out to Phil Collins.
Per his Snapchat story, they now know he 
prepared for his sports media and society class 
by bobbing his head to “In the Air Tonight.”
“I feel like there’s a ﬁ  ne line on social me-
dia, and you can either be safe or crazy, and 
I didn’t want to be totally safe,” said Spiker, who took over the UF Snapchat on Tuesday, allowing students who follow user uf1853 to see short videos and pictures posted to the app 
in the past 24 hours.
“I wanted to be interesting,” he said.
Christina Yi, a UF advertising junior follow-
ing the Snapchat takeovers, said she enjoyed 
Spiker’s antics.
“I felt like every single snap was very comi-
cal and witty, which I didn’t expect because 
it’s hard to come up with a good snap story,” the 20-year-old said.  UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines was the latest to take over the snap story. UF students, faculty take over Snapchat stories for a day
SEE SNAPCHAT,  PAGE 4SEE DISABILITY,  PAGE 4It hopes to make an ‘Impact’ on SG
“I feel like there’s a ine line on social 
media, and you can either be safe or 
crazy, and I didn’t want to be totally 
safe.” 
T ed Spiker
UF Department of Journalism chairSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Welcome back party
Have the summertime blues got-
ten to you? Don’t worry! UF’s Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures and Institute of Black 
Culture invite you to a Welcome/
Bienvenida Block Party on Friday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Come out to the IBC and La Casita on 1510 W. University Ave., next to Chipotle, and enjoy some free food, music, carnival games and more. The event is open to the public and completely free of 
charge. For more information find 
the event page at Facebook.com/events/1614374718833314/.
GRR Swamp City Sirens vs. Palm 
Coast Roller Derby!Come cheer on the Swamp City Sirens Saturday as they take on Palm Coast Roller Derby in 
the last home bout of the 2015 
season. As a bonus, the Ocala Cannibal Roller Derby junior team, the Ocala Carnivores, will show off their skills during half-time. Doors open at 6 p.m. and the event starts at 7 p.m. Tickets are $8 in advance and $10 at the door. 
Tickets can be purchased at 
brownpapertickets.com, Volta Coffee, Sweet Dreams, Wild Iris Books or from your favorite derby girl. As always, kids 12 and under get in free. FED Food Company will be providing delicious good-ies for you, and we will also have drinks available for cash or 
credit. After the bout, join us at 
Gainesville House Of Beer for our after party.
Learn to live in motion at 
RecStravaganzaJoin UF RecSports today from 6 to 8 p.m. at Southwest Recreation Center for our annual open house, RecStravaganza. The event will feature complimentary chair massages, fitness demon-
strations, weight room orienta-
tions, free food, giveaways and more. Interested in joining one of UF’s 47 sport clubs? Members from each sport club will be present to answer any questions about joining a team. Additionally, information on the 10 league sports and seven flash 
tournaments RecSports is offering 
this semester will also be avail-able. Participants can earn a free Live in Motion T-shirt by visit-ing different tables at the event and meeting our staff and par-ticipants. No registration is neces-sary. You won’t want to miss this event. Visit recsports.ufl.edu for 
more information.
GatorNights
GatorNights will kick off the Fall 
semester with Hidden Stages, a music festival themed event, Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature live music from Evan 
Taylor and Duke, free food, hen-
na tattoos and more. GatorNights will also be hosting two showings of the movie “Jurassic World” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with a comedy show from Jerrod Carmichael, supporting ac-tor in the movie “Neighbors” and 
star of NBC’s “The Carmichael 
Show.”
Have an Adventure
Outdoor Adventure Recreation (OAR) is holding a meeting Thursday (and subsequent Thursdays) in Yon Hall at 6:30 p.m. Hiking the Appalachian 
Mountains, cave tubing in 
Tennessee, road tripping to spec-tacular sites in the Southwest, paddling and rope swinging on the Suwannee, exploring coun-tries in the Caribbean and even weekly climbing and Ultimate Frisbee are all real possibili-
ties with OAR. Come to the first 
meeting to discover how you can explore the outdoors, embark on adventures and master recreation skills. Go to ufadventure.com to join the organization, sign up for upcoming trips and find more in-formation.
Gay Movie Night
Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St. This screwball comedy follows a young gay couple who discover a secret room filled with cash house-sitting for celebrity friends. When their friends die under mysterious circumstances 
while overseas, can they make a 
clean getaway with the money? Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to help cover cost of snacks.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 4
HIGH  91° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
Patel said.
To help students with physical disabili-
ties, some bathrooms in Cypress’s DRC 
have lifts for students with wheelchairs to 
maneuver on and off the toilet.
Cypress also houses seven students 
with physical disabilities. One is currently 
using the lift system, said Tara Scruggs, a 
learning specialist at the DRC.
These students also received an iPad 
that controls the door, blinds and lights to their bedrooms, Patel said.
UF is among few schools to offer such 
housing on campus, Scruggs said.
“We are the only school in the South 
that offers these resources,” she said. “The closest school that serves this range 
would be Illinois.”
Cypress is also offering support-group 
services to DRC students in an effort to 
have students help students, Wynn said.
She meets with her support group to 
work with other students like her, she said.
“It’s nice that this hall was built for the 
purpose of helping people — that’s why I wanted to be an RA at Cypress,” Wynn 
said.DISABILITY,  from pg 1It offers support-group services
She spent all day Wednesday showing stu-
dents what her day-to-day life is like, taking 
them virtually to a meeting with Vice Presi-
dent for Student Affairs Dave Kratzer and vis-
iting student organizations tabling on Turling-ton Plaza.
“I always make it a point to talk to students 
and student organizations, so I thought, ‘Why not showcase them on the story?’” she said.
Parts of the story feature her on Turlington 
Plaza strutting toward a Gator Fencing mem-ber and laughing; posing with her arm flexed, 
Rosie-the-Riveter style, at the Reitz Union 
food court in celebration of Women’s Equal-ity Day; and typing in her office as someone narrates her actions in an Australian accent.“I’ve learned a lot about Snapchat,” she 
said. “I was not an experienced Snapchatter 
before.”
While UF elementary education sopho-
more Gabrielle Yatauro said she just skims 
the snap story, she appreciates seeing a new face every day.
“It’s nice to see what’s going on and be 
informed,” the 19-year-old said.
Yi said she is looking forward to Fuchs’ 
snap story today.
She said she has enjoyed his previous UF 
videos, like when he attempted the nae nae dance in the convocation video, and can’t wait to see what he brings to Snapchat.
“I’m super excited for him to take over be-
cause he seems like a great guy,” she said. “Maybe he’ll do the nae nae again.”SNAPCHAT,  from pg 1It’s UF’s Snapchat takeover week
“W e are the only school in the South 
that offers these resources.”
Zeel Patel
Staff memeber for Dean of Students Office  THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents are some 
of the first in the nation to try 
Wendy’s new and improved 
chicken.
The city is one of four test 
markets in which Wendy’s is in-
troducing antibiotic-free chicken 
sandwiches to the menu, accord-
ing to Frank Vamos, director of brand communications for the company. 
He said it was seen as a good representation of national opin-ion.
The chicken raised without 
antibiotics is being offered in all menu items containing grilled chicken and also in Wendy’s new grilled chicken sandwich. 
It has been in Gainesville since 
late July and will continue to be offered for a few months, Vamos said.
The new chicken option is also 
being tested in Orlando, Kansas City and Austin, he said.
According to the Wendy’s website, the antibiotic-free effort ensures animals are treated with more humane methods, which 
also helps keep the integrity of 
Wendy’s food.
For some students, like John 
Carlo Nuguid, an 18-year-old UF 
engineering freshman, it is a re-
minder of home.
“My cousins have a chicken 
farm back home (in the Philip-pines),” he said while waiting 
in the Reitz Union Wendy’s line. 
“There’s a different taste to it.”
What happens to chickens raised with antibiotics is cruel, Nuguid said. 
“So if you can find a way to 
raise chickens without drugs,” he said, “it’s better.”
Other students, like Mayu Mizutani, an 18-year-old UF envi-ronmental engineering freshman, 
said it is a way to ensure she is 
living up to her standards. 
She said the new chicken 
would make her more inclined to visit Wendy’s.
“I’m pretty environmentally 
conscious,” she said. “If you’re increasing the use of antibiotics in chickens, eventually diseases 
will become immune to them, 
and you’re just going to need more and more and stronger and stronger antibiotics. It’s only go-ing to increase the problem.”Wendy’s brings antibiotic-free chicken to Gainesville 
“If you’re increasing the use 
of antibiotics in chickens, 
eventually diseases will become 
immune to them, and you’re 
just going to need more and 
more and stronger and stronger 
antibiotics.”
Mayu Mizutani
UF environmental 
engineering freshmanIt’s offered for grilled chicken sandwichesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialYet another 
shooting leaves 
more questions 
than answers
When we began brainstorming today’s editorial, 
there was every intention of writing a pleasant little column on the inability of Florida lawmakers to rectify the blatant gerrymandering that plagues Florida. But, as with so many American mornings, 
tragedy made it all but impossible to write anything that even remotely resembled a “pleasant” demeanor.
We don’t need — or particularly want — to regurgitate the 
details of Wednesday’s shooting in Roanoke, Virginia, which took the lives of television station WDBJ7 journalists Alison Parker and Adam Ward and wounded Roanoke local Vicki Gardner. You can find the factual account of what happened in every American source of news. Given the horrific frequen-cy with which these murders occur in our country, there’s a 
strong chance that, even if you don’t know the explicit de-
tails, you can fill in the blanks on your own.
We are also not going to use this column as a platform to 
declare that the U.S. has a frightening gun problem. Consider-ing nothing has changed in the two and a half years since 20 children were murdered in their own classroom, there is not much of a point in banging a proverbial head against a wall.
Our vocabulary is not wide enough to describe the mix 
of anger and profound sadness that these shootings produce: 
anger for the lobbyists and corporate interests who ensure 
business will continue as usual, and sadness for the wholly unnecessary and deeply upsetting loss of human lives. As journalists, this strikes us a tinge harder, seeing individuals in our own field killed doing their job.
Much of the coverage surrounding Wednesday’s shoot-
ing focused on Parker’s boyfriend and fellow reporter Chris Hurst, who shared on Twitter that they had been in a nearly year-long relationship. “We didn’t share this publicly, but 
(Parker) and I were very much in love,” one of Hurst’s tweets 
says. “We just moved in together. I am numb.” Ward himself had been engaged to a producer for WDBJ7, Melissa Ott; she witnessed her fiancée get shot from the WDBJ7 control room, a hellish scenario we would not wish on anyone.
So, what do we do now? What can we do after the one 
of only countless American shootings of 2015? We wish we knew. Reading about these stories again and again, time after time, with little to no movement by our citizens or govern-
ment to change things can leave even the most positive of 
individuals disheartened. What can any of us do? We’re col-lege students trying to improve our lives one class at a time, not politicians with millions of dollars and legislative power at our disposal.
It would seem as though the only rational response is to 
get angry. It’s commonly accepted that the U.S. suffers more instances of gun violence than any other developed country in the world — why are we OK with this? Why is it that two and 
a half years after the Newtown shooting, arguably the most 
horrific instance of gun violence this country has ever seen, this has continued to happen?
Tragedies like these present no simple answers; they only 
make them harder to find.Black Lives Movement needs legislative action
Black Lives Matter has become the most powerful movement in the national dialogue. Whether you agree with it or not, its message of detailing the inher-ent racism in many aspects of Ameri-
can life has kick-started an important conver-sation about race as it pertains to ideas such as white privilege. In the interest of full disclo-sure, I support the movement; I have been in situations that would have had a tremendously different outcome were I not white. With that said, the movement has problems that need resolving if it is going to create lasting, meaningful change in the country.
First, the movement is highly unorganized in terms 
of having a centralized spokesperson or activist leader. There are different chapters based in different cities, which is not uncommon for grassroots movements; how-ever, given the important goals of Black Lives Matter, there ought to be more organization within these chap-ters. When Bernie Sanders was interrupted in Seattle by a protester ostensibly acting on behalf of BLM — some-thing I witnessed firsthand — it turned out the person 
was not even associated with the Seattle chapter.
The next issue is a consequence of lack of organiza-
tion — namely, that the movement needs to evolve. Pro-
testing in the streets to inform the public at large can only go for so long before there is a need to switch gears. In other words, without a substantive platform to change the system through new laws or reforming old ones, the movement will eventually dissipate without accomplish-ing substantial reform.
Two relatively recent movements show what hap-
pens when they reach this crossroad. The Occupy Wall Street operation petered out because it failed to create real change through laws or court cases. Yes, we cer-tainly talk more about the 1 percent, but nothing has happened to alter the circumstances that birthed Occupy Wall Street in the first place. Conversely, for better or for worse, the Tea Party was able to mobilize a group of people who made change within the government by actually electing candidates that reflected Tea Party interests.
Another improvement that could be made 
would be to distinguish between the Republi-can and Democratic candidates. I understand the perspective that Hillary Clinton once sup-ported legislation that negatively affected mi-nority communities and broke up families. At the same time, the movement would benefit 
from questioning the huge GOP field more critically. Attacking only the Democrats that have a better — al-though not perfect — civil rights record is not productive 
to the national discussion.
Hillary Clinton’s recent discussion with BLM activists 
highlights the issues I have already laid out. One activist 
asked Clinton detailed and well-thought-out questions, beginning a constructive conversation. However, by the end of the conversation, the arguments put forth seem to render the first part useless, making it counterproduc-tive.
I do not want to oversimplify the exchange that took 
place, and I strongly encourage anyone with a passing interest in the Black Lives Matter movement to watch it themselves. With that being said, Clinton’s response to one activist, who had been maintaining that the move-ment sought to change the hearts of white people who had been unaware of the black plight, is particularly per-tinent. “Look, I don’t believe you change hearts,” Clinton said. “I believe you change laws, you change allocation of resources, you change ways systems operate.”
I am not the biggest Hillary Clinton fan, but as a sea-
soned politician, she makes an excellent point. Retweets and hashtags are not the same as laws or changing the system; if Black Lives Matter is to have staying power, they need to realize that.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays. 
Column
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
High heels clacked against 
wet sidewalks as smiling girls rushed to their new houses. The drizzling Florida rain stopped 
Wednesday evening, allowing the sun to spotlight the new re-cruits on sorority row during Bid Day. These new members have been rushing since last Wednesday. After three rounds of recruitment and a preferential round, sororities ﬁ  nally revealed which girls were given “bids.” During this process, more than 1,700 girls visited each sorority house in hopes of ﬁ  nding their perfect match, feeling out which group of girls they could poten-tially call sisters.
Photos by Sungwhan Cho 
and Nicole Gomez 
LEFT:
Phi Mu sisters stand outside their house to celebrate with their new members during Bid Day on Wednesday. 
BELOW LEFT:
Rachel Koller, a 20-year-old UF biology junior and member of Delta Gamma, hugs a friend before new members arrive. “I’m so excited to meet the new pledge class, ” she said.
BELOW RIGHT:
Alpha Omicron Pi members take a group photo holding Bid Day signs in front of their soror-ity house.8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Outside a hospital window, Su-
perman waved to a group of smiling 
children.
He was one of four superheroes 
who swung on rappel lines outside 
a children’s hospital, high-fiving 
through the glass. It was an event organized by police two weeks ago in Colorado — an event local agen-
cies are hoping to replicate at UF 
Health Shands Hospital. 
The Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office shared a video from the Aug. 12 visit that was uploaded by Children’s Hospital Colorado on Facebook on Aug. 20. They tagged Gainesville Police and wrote the 
two departments “need to team up 
and pull this off at UF Health.”
“And the wheels of planning 
are already turning,” GPD said in a Twitter comment.
The post has received nearly 600 
likes on the sheriff’s office’s Face-book page as of press time, and the original video has more than 12,000 likes. Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
fice spokesman Art Forgey con-
firmed the planning and said initial plans have been in the works since he and GPD spokesman officer Ben Tobias spoke to their SWAT teams. 
“It would be a collaborative ef-
fort between the four agencies with Shands’ cooperation,” Forgey said.
Rossana Passaniti, the media re-
lations manager at Shands, said she expected an update on the idea.
“I know that the issue is kind of 
being looked at by the powers that be,” she said. “But I haven’t seen any movement on this one since last week.”
The original event happened 
a year ago when cancer survivor 
Hallie Wastell posted the idea on a 
Facebook page called The Bucket List Life, according to Diana Cooley, an Aurora Police Department public information officer. Cooley said the event motivated patients, including a child who left the bed for the first time after weeks of recovering from a boating accident.
“The kiddos and the staff and 
the families and the hospital were very excited and happy that we did this,” she said.
Dave Krieger, an Aurora SWAT 
team leader who participated in the event as Spider-Man, said a lo-cal shop donated the costumes and everything came together after a 
couple of months.
“It was a very powerful experi-
ence for all of us, and somewhat 
emotional actually,” he said.
The experience was even more 
meaningful, Krieger said, because the officers are all fathers.
“We kind of all walked away 
from it just shaking our heads and 
counting our blessings.”
Krieger said he and the rest of his 
department are available to answer 
any questions that Gainesville’s agencies might have about planning a successful superhero appearance. Superheroes to possibly visit Shands
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dave Krieger (right), an Aurora SWAT team leader dressed as Spider-Man, propels down the side of Chil-
dren’s Hospital Colorado on Aug. 12, 2015, during an event organized by Colorado’s police department.UF PRESIDENT KENT 
FUCHS ALSO SPOKE AT 
THE EVENT.
By Gabriella Nuñez
Alligator Staff Writer
The Hispanic-Latinx Student As-
sembly was centered around em-
powerment, culture and inclusivity.
When the event started Wednes-
day night, there was only standing 
room left in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom for attendees. The event’s theme was “¡Viva la Voz!,” which means your voice lives on. 
Jacof Terán, a UF sociology 
senoir and the senior director of HLSA, made it a point for his voice to be heard. Terán said he is a rep-resentation of his community, the 
Hispanic-Latinx community.
That’s why he focused on his 
voice. He said his goal is to make 
the assembly as inclusive as pos-sible, and it started with the word “Latinx.”
“I’ve been asked, ‘Is there a typo 
in the name?’” he said.
“Latinx” is used to express the 
wide varieties in Hispanic-Latinx culture, which includes queer, transgender, female, black Hispanic, non-Spanish-speaking Hispanic and other individuals who don’t fit into the label “Latino,” he said.
He ended his speech with an 
emphasis on individuality in the Hispanic-Latinx community.
After his opening speech, UF 
President Kent Fuchs welcomed the energetic crowd — in Spanish.
Switching to English, Fuchs 
spoke of identity and how he identi-fies with UF’s Class of 2019.
“I consider myself a freshman, 
like all of my first-years,” Fuchs said.
In the freshman class, one-fifth of 
students comes from a Hispanic-La-tino background, and Hispanic en-rollment is still on the rise, he said. 
He added that different back-
grounds raise the overall quality of 
the education at UF.
The event directors tried to make 
sure all types of people were repre-
sented, including those from Multi-cultural Diversity Affairs, UF Student Government and the Gainesville community.
Michael Samper, a UF computer 
science freshman, said the event 
was eye-opening.
“It’s amazing to be with so many 
people that share your cultures and 
experiences,” the 18-year-old said.
Because of this, Samper said he 
resonated with keynote speaker Cesar Cruz, who is a poet, human rights activist and teacher.
He moved from the spotlight on 
the stage and requested for the lights to be turned on.
“It’s not about seeing me,” he 
said.  “It’s about seeing each other.”
He told students they should ed-
ucate themselves and their history, and he emphasized that there is still progress to be made.
“Don’t celebrate your work,” 
Cruz said. “Celebrate your voice. Celebrate your passion.”Hispanic-Latinx culture 
celebrated at assembly
John Hursh / Alligator
Cesar Cruz speaks about various social injustices surrounding the 
Hispanic-American community Wednesday night at the Hispanic-Latinx Student Assembly.  
LOCAL
By Oriana Bravo
Alligator Writer
Alachua County management is now considered 
excellent nationwide.
Alachua County was one of 33 jurisdictions 
awarded the certificate of excellence, the highest 
award given by the International City/County Man-
agement Association for Performance Analytics.
Alachua County Manager Lee A. Niblock will be 
accepting the award on behalf of the county at the 
ICMA’s annual conference in September.
“Being one of only 33 agencies nationally that 
have received this level of award is very positive feedback for all the efforts we put into this,” said Donna Bradbrook, the strategic performance man-ager for Alachua County.
Gerald Young, the technology, analysis, and user 
support coordinator with the center, said the certifi-cate of excellence rewards local governments with noteworthy achievements but also sets examples for others.
“I think what it demonstrates is that the county 
is dedicated to trying to track and improve upon its 
performance from year to year, and I think that’s a 
laudable goal,” Young said.
When awarding certificates, Young said the 
ICMA evaluates the local government’s ability to col-lect reliable performance data and its ability to use performance data to improve the community and look at outcomes.
In the last three years, Alachua County has 
tracked a 6-percent decrease in water usage and a 
7.5-percent decrease in electricity consumption by 
collecting data for performance management and following the success of their conservation plans, ac-cording to this year’s planned budget strategic plan.        
“I’m not going to say that we will ever be perfect 
at it, but we are always striving for improvement,” Bradbrook said.Alachua County wins agency awardKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
UF acting senior opens theater in GNV
See what events are coming up at The Primitive Studio, pg 12.What’s inside: 
The Avenue reviews “The End of the T our, ” pg 10.Music Roundup: New releases to look out for, pg 10.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
After a 10-year hiatus, Gaines-
ville-based label Nook & Cranny 
Records is back with a new album 
— celebrating the latest release 
with two days of live music this weekend.
The album, “The Power Blend 
Compilation,” will be performed by eight of the 12 artists on the album on both Friday and Satur-day at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.Single day tickets 
are $6 and a weekend pass can 
be purchased for $8. Tickets are available on Ticketﬂ  y.com
Guests can catch local band 
Shermy D & The Luscious Ones headlining Friday night. Doors open at 8 p.m. and the show be-gins at 8:30 p.m. Saturday’s show will be headlined by rocksteady 
ska reggae locals The Duppies. 
Doors open at 9 p.m. and the show starts at 9:30 p.m.“The Power Blend Compila-
tion” is just like the compilation 
CDs released by Nook & Cranny 
in the past. It serves as a snapshot of the Gainesville music scene.
“This event is a really good 
cross section of local music, ev-
erything from hard rock, to reg-
gae to hip hop,” Pat Lavery, own-er of Glory Days Presents, wrote 
in an email.
“I think it’s really representa-
tive of a certain scene within the 
Gainesville music scene,” Lavery said. “One that is highly repre-
sented at High Dive, and appeals 
to a large group of music lovers.”
Nook & Cranny Records is 
run by husband and wife team David and Vicki Sherman, who 
are longstanding members of the 
Gainesville music scene.
Lavery says they are “two of the 
nicest, most positive musicians and people in the Gainesville mu-
sic scene.” All of the effort they 
put into their projects comes from the right reasons, Lavery said.
“They aren’t looking to get 
famous or make money or be popular,” Lavery said. “They do it because they love music, they love performing for and meeting good people, and they care about 
Gainesville.”
For Nook & Cranny founder 
David Sherman, it’s all about cre-ating an accurate representation 
of the music scene and spotlight-ing local bands.
“Where most labels have a 
sound, mine is very eclectic,” 
Sherman said. “I mean there is 
hip-hop, there is punk, there is hard rock, there’s a little bit of psychedelia.”
Documenting these bands on 
one album beneﬁ  ts all those in-volved and allows bands to cross market their fan bases, Sherman said.
It was this idea that led to the 
inception of Nook & Cranny.
Sherman said he was playing in a band called Fat Vacuum in 1994 and through his desire at the time to “make it” in the music in-dustry, he thought a compilation CD would beneﬁ  t local bands by 
helping expose each other.
During that time, Gainesville’s 
now-closed Hardback Cafe, was a 
venue where local bands got their 
start.
“Now it’s a piece of history, 
but at the time it was like, ‘We’re 
gonna make it, we’re gonna tour and do all this stuff,” he said of 
the Hardback.
In a time before Spotify or 
iTunes, compilation CDs were 
one of the best ways for bands 
to get their music in the hands of 
new fans.
“Someone in another state can 
check out a band on the comp and: ‘Oh, I like this band’ and do 
some research and try to ﬁ  nd out 
about them,” Sherman said. “So it just supports everybody and helps get more exposure than if 
you’re just the one band.”
The birth of the record label? 
During the early years, every pen-ny Sherman had went to music. 
He looked into how much it would cost to have a CD made and then sent a proposal to a number of lo-cal bands on how much money 
they would need to contribute. 
The ones who were interested or could afford to later signed on to what would be the ﬁ  rst Nook & 
Cranny compilation CD.
A friend of his created a web-
site and the label and CDs be-
came more reputable. After the ﬁ  rst two albums, bringing bands 
on board became way easier, 
Sherman said.
“I kept learning how to do it 
better, you know,” Sherman said. 
“I got better at my craft over time 
and then as time got on it got easier.”
Sherman’s goal is for people 
to hear the music and to spotlight 
those who are contributing to the 
scene.
Sherman said it’s about sup-
porting the scene.
“Exposing the bands and just 
people who love music...and get it.”THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
GNV label Nook & Cranny releases album after a decade
The CD release party is this weekend
Courtesy to the Alligator
Rock band Gorilla Candy, one of the 12 bands on Nook 
& Cranny Records’ latest compliation album, will be performing Saturday at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. The two-day live local music event will begin Fri-day at 8 p.m. and wil continue Saturday at 9 p.m. Tick-ets for both shows can be purchased for $8.FRIDAY, AUG 28
Sherman D 
& The Luscious Ones
Punk Indie Hip-Hop
One Drop
Hip-Hop Reggae
Dear Abbey
Hard Rock / Alt.
Gris Gris Boys
Extreme Rock & Roll
Shawn Manley
Singer / Songwriter
SATURDAY, AUG 29
The Duppies
Rocksteady Ska Reggae
Doom Patrol
“Rockin’ Doom-y, Patrol-y”
Gorilla Candy
Rock
Jenarchy
Pop Electronic / Indie PunkJohn Hursh / Alligator Staff
POP SOME TAGS
(Left to right) Katherine 
Tison, 21, Hannie Glenn, 21, Dana Roberson, 21, and Cassidy Sizemore, 20, attended the Thrift Shop Dance Party on Monday night. The event was spon-sored by  Campus Crusade for Christ. Collectively, they spent less than $20 on their outfits.10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
ff the Record
MUSIC ROUNDUP: NEW RELEASES TO LOOK OUT FOR
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
“Break the Law” by Mac Miller
Released Aug. 17 — A hazy soul-sampled instrumen-
tal follows Miller as he delves into vulgar yet charismatic arrogance. Compound rhyme schemes combine with an eccentric choice of words to yield something both re-
freshing and raunchy: Miller’s most impassioned song in 
years. “Break the Law” and the recently released “100 Grandkids” can be found on Miller’s forthcoming album, “GO:OD AM,” due out Sept. 18.
“Gibraltar” by BeirutReleased Aug. 18 — Beirut is a band from Arizona, 
but the music sounds like it hails straight from Lebanese folklore. “Gibraltar” revolves around an infectious piano pattern and tender vocals. A lone conga drum opens up 
the track before a rolling snare and some jerky keys ﬁ  ll 
in the wavering gaps. From start to end, lead singer Zach Condon ﬂ  uctuates between solemn stalemates and ca-thartic release, siding eventually with the latter. 
“Levels” by Nick JonasReleased Aug. 21 — Fans of suits and ties and dance-
pop rejoice. Nick Jonas reincarnates the sound Justin Timberlake wooed us with years ago in his latest offer-ing, “Levels.” Soulful falsettos and a lively rhythm propel 
the track, which climaxes in a wobbly drop. Jonas has 
come a long way since he sang alongside his brothers, launching a successful solo career and venturing onto TV screens and magazine spreads.
“PPP” by Beach HouseReleased Aug. 21 — A woozy slow-dance ballad ﬁ  t 
for a dimly lit ball, “PPP” revolves around ascending and descending guitar arpeggios and a harrowing voice belonging to lead singer Victoria Legrand. Beach House, a pop duo from Maryland, lives up to its name on this track. The dual repetition of the strings and the vocals contrast impeccably, conjuring seaside thoughts. A faint but steady hi-hat keeps time as the song oozes along me-thodically. “PPP” will live on the band’s upcoming “De-
pression Cherry” album, slated for release Friday.
“Smile” by The Royal Concept
Released Aug. 21 — A folky chant starts off “Smile” 
before an electric guitar and vocalist David Larson’s falsetto take the reins. Larson’s singing is lively, seem-ing to ﬂ  oat overtop the forceful power chords and slamming drums. During the chorus, the earthy chants make a return, this time with layered lyrics sung above the melody. Although the song sounds like it sprouted 
from middle-American shrubs, the band actually hails 
from Stockholm, Sweden, oddly enough. “Smile” can be found on The Royal Concept’s latest EP, which goes by the same name.
“Drive” by HalseyReleased Aug. 21 — A glitchy synthesizer acts as 
the backbone for “Drive,” but by no means does it stop there. The production on this track is thoroughly laced with layers of distortion and instrumental switch-ups. 
Halsey croons along about losing control of her car on 
the interstate and attempting to kindle a romance, do-ing so pretty nonchalantly. Halfway through the song, a male voice belonging to her actual ex-boyfriend (produc-er and rapper Lido) adds back-up vocals and a touch of tension. Halsey’s approach to pop music is dark, messy and uncompromising. Her debut album, “BADLANDS,” is set to drop Friday.Take a shot…
 When you fall in love with the Aussie 
accents (Thisʼll only take a few seconds.)
 During every ﬂ  ashback
 When the guards engage in questionable 
behavior
Take a sip…
 During every scene that thereʼs blood
 Every time you hear someone being called 
“mate”
 When someone deﬁ  es the top dog
 Every time thereʼs a drug smuggle
 When someoneʼs thrown in the wet cell 
(Thatʼs the Aussie version of the SHU.)
Finish your drink…
 When someone dies
 While youʼre crying (Because you will.)
 To deal with the emotional trauma
 When you realize youʼve watched a whole 
season in one sittingDuring my two weeks of 
freedom between the Summer and Fall terms I, of course, did what any other college kid in America would do: binge watch 
Netﬂ  ix and binge drink.
But now with the semester 
rolling back in, we’re aware it’s 
hard to have both a social life and some downtime to catch up on your favorite shows. So every week this semester, the Avenue has a solution for you. You can, in fact, combine both. 
How so? Netﬂ  ix binge drinking 
games.
This week’s game? A show 
you may or may not have heard of, but will deﬁ  nitely keep in mind while you’re skimming through Netﬂ  ix on a Friday night.
After watching the inmates 
of Litchﬁ  eld Penitentiary splash around in a lake for a dreadful 10 minutes, my heart broke for three reasons: One, there was no epic ending to “Orange Is the New Black” season three. Two, “Orange Is the New Black” sea-son three is over. And three, WE HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL 
NEXT JUNE?
Luckily, I found just the right show to hold off on our new-
found female-prison-life craze: “Wentworth.”
The Australian television 
series follows the story of Bea 
Smith, a ﬁ  rst-time offender in-
carcerated on a much more se-rious offense than Litchﬁ  eld’s Piper Kerman.
With badass women and 
intense violence consuming al-most every scene, Wentworth prison makes Litchﬁ  eld look like a walk in the park.
While the inmates of Litch-
ﬁ  eld braid each other’s hair and sew panties, the inmates of Wentworth engage in merciless “top-dog” wars, stopping at no cost to avenge anyone who gets in their way.
And before you assume 
the Aussie drama is a rip-off 
of “Orange Is the New Black,” 
you may want to know the show was released May 2013, a month before “Orange Is the New Black” premiered.
The score as far as women’s 
prison shows are concerned? One for Australia. Zero for America.
Oh, and one too many for 
my liver. Bottoms up!By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer By Erica Bahrenburg
Avenue Writer
There is nothing ﬂ  ashy about 
“The End of the Tour.” It is visually bleak, does not have much of an emotional climax and the narrative just ﬂ  ows like one long conversa-
tion, which is basically what this 
ﬁ  lm is. Yet, the ﬁ  lm is incredibly rewarding on a cerebral level.
In 1996, after the publication of 
David Foster Wallace’s (Jason Se-gel) widely popular and immensely successful novel, “Inﬁ  nite Jest,” Wallace goes on a ﬁ  ve-day touring interview with Rolling Stone report-
er and writer David Lipsky (Jesse 
Eisenberg). Throughout the trip, the two men become friends shar-ing in humor, life and fears.
Jason Segel’s performance is 
revelatory. Segel usually plays the silly, just-getting-by friend with a heart of gold. In this role, he loses himself in the role and brings a low-key approach displayed through micro-movements, passing com-ments and idiosyncrasies.
Through layers of characteriza-
tion, the viewer can see Segel dig-
ging through many hidden and sad 
aspects of Wallace’s life. Wallace does not want to reveal everything to Lipsky and, rarely coming across as aggressive, politely asks Lipsky to keep some conversations off the record.He is so concerned with how 
Lipsky will spin the story and that he will be written off as a jerk that 
he is never revealing his true self 
when they are together.
While Eisenberg’s role is one 
we’ve seen him do before — the jit-tery smart aleck — he ﬁ  nds a way to bring new life to this character. His complex conﬁ  dence shows through his professional admiration and un-professional envy of Wallace.
Director James Ponsoldt has 
been proving himself as a new ﬁ  lm-maker to watch with critically ac-claimed ﬁ  lms such as “Smashed” and “The Spectacular Now” — and “The End of the Tour” seals the deal.
Film review: ‘The End of the Tour’
FILMTHURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE/uni2219  film  /uni2219  dance  /uni2219  music  /uni2219  art  /uni2219  theatre  /uni2219  community  /uni2219 /uni2219  community  /uni2219  theatre  /uni2219  art  /uni2219  music  /uni2219  dance  /uni2219  film  /uni2219
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27 FRIDAY, AUGUST 28 SATURDAY, AUGUST 29 SUNDAY, AUGUST 30
Cliff James Beneﬁ  t Show
High Dive 
7 p.m. | $8 - $20
College Night
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar
Doors 6 p.m. | Free EventRenaissance T our
8-bit Bar 
9 p.m. | $6
The Lacs
Eight Seconds
Doors 8 p.m. | TBAAll Request ‘80s with DJ Donna
The Atlantic Nightspot
10 p.m. | Free Event
Road T o III Points
The Jam
9 p.m. | $5The Tribe
Hippodrome State Theatre
2 p.m. | GA $7.50, Student $5.50
“True Blue and Orange, T oo”
Artisans’ Guild Gallery
10 a.m. | Free EventBy Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
Director of six plays, actor in more than 20, and producer of 
his own, Sam Richardson is now a founder of his own theater.
The Primitive Studio, located at 618 S. Main St., is the result 
of Richardson’s intentions to grant Gainesville a fresh take on 
theater.
The 27-year-old cofounder and UF acting senior came across 
the space he has now after working at several theaters in the 
downtown area. Then he took a gamble and signed the lease 
with his cofounder, Iver Thue. They opened the theater in May along with a third partner, Lisa Demanuel.
According to Richardson, space within The Primitive Stu-
dio can be rented for workshops, group rehearsals, seminars 
and other educational events. Greek life socials and other large events would be well suited for the 3-acre lot that sits behind 
the theater, Richardson said.
“What we’re really focusing on is shifting that paradigm so 
that, yeah, I want to bring my brand of theater to Gainesville,” Richardson said, “but I want people to discover it as their brand of theater because it’s not the same (as mine).”
The theater, which seats 50 people, will premiere “The Hairy 
Ape,” Richardson’s own play, Friday through Sept. 6. It will be the third show at The Primitive Studio.
In his plays, Richardson said he focuses on avoiding what 
he calls “deadly” theater, the repetition of cliche shows. He said 
he wants the audience to think about the show and what’s truly 
going on.
As a director, Richardson said he gives the actors notes about 
where to stand and how to act, but he also gives them some leeway. This evokes a rawer feel, rather than a measured and precise one, which Richardson said he can ﬁ  nd aggravating.
“I’ve been trying to create a rough theater experience,” Rich-
ardson said. “When we go down the rough route, we actually have something more visceral. We have something more on-the-edge.”
In addition to the style of direction, Richardson worked with 
Thue to create a type of light effect called projection mapping. 
This technique emphasizes objects as small as bricks or as large 
as cars and manipulates them to embellish the stage and serve as another prop.
One of the most important things for Richardson is the 
branding and image of his theater.
“We want people to not come in and settle into their chairs 
and think that their phones are a better alternative to the play in front of them,” Richardson said. “(We want them) to walk out with three words: ‘What the f**k?’”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
Elena Castello / Alligator
Sam Richardson, a 27-year-old UF acting senior, has recently opened The Primitive Studio, where his own 
production, “The Hairy Ape, ” will be premiering Friday.
UF senior founds new local theater, hosts upcoming show
THEATRE
UPCOMING EVENTS
The Hairy Ape | GA $15, Student $13
 Friday, August 28 at 7:30 p.m.
 Saturday, August 29 at 7:30 p.m.
 Sunday, August 30 at 2 p.m.
Hot Tamale Dance Party | Admission $5
 Saturday, September 12 at 6 p.m.
Dog Sees God: Confessions of a Teenage 
Blockhead | GA $15, Student $13
 Friday, September 25 at 7:30 p.m.
 Saturday, September 26 at 7:30 p.m.
 Sunday, September 27 at 2 p.m.
Theophilus North | GA $15, Student $13
 Friday, October 30 at 7:30 p.m.
 Saturday, October 31 at 7:30 p.m.
 Sunday, November 1 at 2 p.m.THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious atmosphere. $475/mo includes high speed internet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 325-631-0737    9-3-15-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like 
new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $675/mo. Call Joe 727-423-9463    8-28-15-6-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2 fem roommates wanted for 3 bedroom spacious, house. Shaded fenced backyard, wood floors, screened living porch. Washer/Dryer. 6 blocks from campus/from "Swamp/UF Plaza, NW 6th Ave. $490/m + Utl. Call/Text: 607 351 8655     9-1-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
BACKPACKSNorth Face, Osprey, & Jansport on Sale!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13 St /1 mile North of UF on 13th St352.372.37836    9-2-5-10
YETIRambler Cups In Stock. Keep it as cold as possible!Lloyd Clarke Sports1504 NW 13th St / 1 mile North of UF352.372.7836                    9-2-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
For sale: HIGH VISABILITY motorcycle rid-
ing JACKET, large, greenish-yellow with high visability BACKPACK - same color. Paid $262 for both - will sell for half-price at $130 together. Don 352-328-0764    9-1-5-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-1398 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
HOME/OFFICE/APARTMENT CLEANER 
NEEDED if interested please call 352-214-0868..MUST own a reliable car, pass a back-ground, drug ,and reference check. Paying $8/hr and weekly pay..    8-27-15-5-14Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos 13 WantedTHURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Homework coach wanted for bright but dis-
organized 8th grade girl. $10 per hour plus mileage for 4-6 hours per week. Flexible hours. Email qualifications to maddy56@ufl.edu.    8-28-5-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
8-28-15-3-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.A large reptile farm in Newberry is seeking enthusiastic new team members. The pri-mary hours of operation are Monday-Friday 9am to 5pm. Weekend hours may also be available. Starting salary of $9.00 per hour with a pay increase to $12.00 per hour and a benefits package after a 90 day probationary period. We welcome students and offer flex-ible scheduling!
This position involves caring for various rep-
tile species, and may include tasks such as feeding, watering, cleaning cages, breeding, and recording data. Being comfortable work-ing around insects, reptiles, and rodents is important for this position.
This is a hands on position. Candidates can-
not be afraid of handling reptiles and possi-bly being bitten. Don't worry; we do not have any venomous species at our facility!
If you are a motivated hard worker with re-
liable transportation and are interested in working with animals, please contact us!
The Gourmet Rodent
352-472-9189       9-2-15-5-14
MAKE $$$ Referring College/University Students To Our Website!!!Send Inquiries To Dr. Wayne Hunter:  (386) 801-1599; khunter35@cfl.rr.com; www.drwayneeditsandresearch.com    9-1-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined in a new, online scion society, please send email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-15-15-19
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Attention Runners:2 New Races on Oct. 11th!Alachua Lake Half Marathon & 5K Prediction Run on the Hawthorne Trail.Sign up at www.lloydclarkesports.com    9-2-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
RED'S TAVERN 2 Year Anniversary Aug. 
29 Su/Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-
Ladies Night/Karaoke Th.-Men's Night, Fr.-
Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-$1 PBR Drafts 
Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 
27 Ft White 352-339-6978           8-28-10-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event Notices 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Becky Burleigh and 
the Florida soccer team faces the challenge of replacing its midﬁ  eld with freshmen. Read the story on pg. 17. Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at@alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports for updates on UF athletics. THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators in the NFL: Grossman returns
Former Florida quarterback Rex Grossman signed a one-year, $1 million 
contract on Wednesday with the Atlanta Falcons. Grossman, 35, was a ﬁ  rst-round pick in the 2003 NFL Draft by the Chicago Bears. He last played in an NFL regular-season game during the 2011 season with the Redskins. FOOTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
There haven’t been many play-
ers making more noise for the 
Gators in Fall camp than Caleb 
Brantley.
The redshirt sophomore defen-
sive tackle has garnered a lot of 
praise from teammates and the 
coaching staff for how much he’s 
improved his game.  
Last year, Brantley showcased 
ﬂ  ashes of his ability in the 12 games he played and ended up 
totaling 21 tackles — four of them 
for a loss — and forcing two fum-bles while recovering one.
To take the next step in his 
game, however, Brantley had to renew his focus and not pay at-tention to the chatter off the foot-ball ﬁ  eld.
“This year, I cut out all the 
other distractions and stopped be-ing immature,” Brantley said on Tuesday. 
“Just knowing that I had to 
step up and the team needed me.”
Following his redshirt fresh-
man season, where he had decent success, the defensive lineman was searching for something or 
someone to help motivate him so 
he could reach his potential.The answer came when head 
coach Jim McElwain hired Chris 
Rumph from Texas on Feb. 6.  Following Florida’s Spring 
practice on March 27, Rumph said Brantley wasn’t playing up to his ability and he was relying 
too much on his athleticism and 
not enough on his technique. “He’s so result-oriented, that’s 
all he sees,” Rumph said. 
“When I tell him, ‘Hey look at 
your footwork here. Look where 
your eyes and your hands were on that particular play.’ He blocks 
that out. …So trying to get him 
to buy into it, which he is, he’s trying, all those guys are trying to do that, but him in particular be-cause he’s so talented.”
Rumph’s words quickly reso-
nated with the Crescent City na-tive. 
The words made Brantley eval-
uate how he was doing things on the ﬁ  eld and it had a positive ef-fect on him. 
He used the message as fuel to 
keep improving. 
“I mean, obviously I didn’t like 
it. But coach Rumph did his job. He motivated me,” Brantley said. 
“He brought out something 
in me I didn’t think I had in me. It’s just the work that I put in the Summer, he sat me down and just told me what I needed to do to make my dream happen.”
Part of the equation was Brant-
ley’s ability to trust Rumph — a crucial element that was lacking with former defensive line coach 
Brad Lawing. UF coaches McElwain, Rumph bringing out Brantley's best
THE GATORS FACE THE 
HURRICANES AT 7. 
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
After Sunday’s tough loss to Ohio State 
in overtime, the Gators will have a chance 
to get a pair of wins against teams from 
their home state. 
The No. 14 UF soccer team concludes 
its three-game road trip tonight at 7 in 
Coral Gables against the Miami Hurricanes 
(0-1-0) and rounds out the weekend with 
its home opener against No. 1 Florida State (2-0-0).
Following the loss to the Buckeyes, 
coach Becky Burleigh said the team isn’t 
focused on the loss but what they can 
learn and take away from the game.
“Well I think that there are different people learning different things,” Burleigh said. “As a team, I think we have to elimi-nate distractions and be more focused.”
The Gators (1-1-0) know that as a team 
with as much youth as they have, suc-
cess won’t be immediate, but junior midﬁ  elder Liz Slattery thinks the team has already learned a lot 
from its ﬁ  rst two match-
es.
“When you have 
as much talent in the 
younger years and hon-
estly in the older years too we’re going 
to peak when we need to peak,” Slattery said. 
“I think that as the progression con-
tinues and we keep moving from game to game, as long as each person each time Florida soccer caps road 
trip tonight against Miami Alligator File Photo
Redshirt sophomore defensive lineman Caleb Brantley recovers a football during Florida's 65-0 
victory against Eastern Michigan on Sept. 6 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
SEE ADVANCE,  PAGE 19SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
AIR JORDAN
V  olleyball isn’t big in Macomb, Michigan.
And Carli Snyder was 
just ﬁ  ne with that.
There was no pres-
sure, no overly high expectations 
and no limitations on how much 
playing time.
“I didn’t win a national cham-
pionship. I never played on like 
the highest of highest levels,” Snyder said. “But it was fun and something that kept me in love with the game.”
But when the offer to playing volleyball at 
Florida came around — a stark contrast from her hometown in Michigan — Snyder couldn’t turn it down.
The adventure, the opportunity to move 
halfway across the country to play the sport she loves, the chance to play under Mary Wise, was too good to pass up.
“I just wanted to try something new and 
go to school with a great volleyball program, 
great coach and a great legacy,” Snyder said. 
“It seemed like the perfect ﬁ  t.”Now she’s playing at the high-
est collegiate level.
And with her sophomore sea-
son with the No. 4 Gators start-ing Saturday, the outside hitter is 
on the inside track for a breakout 
year.
As a freshman, Snyder led 
UF’s outside hitters in sets played (95), total kills (194) and digs (47) while also recording a .231 hitting efﬁ  ciency.
She had moments of success that shined 
brighter than her goldenrod hair, such as an 
18-kill performance in UF’s 3-1 loss to Tex-
as early in her freshman year and a block in Florida’s NCAA Tournament match against Miami, a block that shifted the momentum in the Gators’ favor.
She’s tasted victory, helping the Gators go 
undefeated in the Southeastern Conference and advance to the Elite Eight for the ﬁ  rst time since 2011.
Working under Wise — arguably one of Snyder becoming comfortable at UF 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19Slattery
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   17
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
The midﬁ  eld tends to be a 
crucial factor in determining 
the winner of a soccer game.
The team that controls the 
middle of the ﬁ  eld typically comes out on top. 
Coach Becky Burleigh and 
the Florida soccer team didn’t have a problem being in com-mand of the midﬁ  eld in 2014. Led by Annie Speese, Ha-vana Solaun and Tessa An-
dujar, the Gators ﬁ  nished the 
season deep into the NCAA Tournament — losing in the quarterﬁ  nals to Stanford in 
overtime.
Of the team’s 59 assists — 
good for second in the South-
eastern Conference and sixth in the nation — the trio ac-counted for twenty-seven. 
Unfortunately for this 
year’s squad, Speese, Solaun 
and Andujar were seniors in 
2014, hence their absences on the 2015 roster.
The loss of some of the 
team’s most reliable creators has done little in taking away the Gators’ conﬁ  dence in what they can achieve this season.
But UF doesn’t seem con-
cerned with who’s not there. The focus is on who is ready to step up in their absence. 
“There’s no real pressure I 
don’t think,” junior midﬁ  eld-er Liz Slattery said.
“We all know that no one 
is going to be like Havana (Solaun), no one’s going to be like Annie Speese, no one’s going to be like Tessa (Andujar) but we have our own things that we bring to the game and we’re going 
to bring it harder than ever. 
We’re not trying to ﬁ  ll any-one’s shoes, we’re just trying to make our own.”
Solaun, Speese and Andu-
jar served as three of UF’s top four point-scorers in 2014, with 27, 20 and 16 points, re-spectively.
Juniors Savannah Jordan 
and Brooke Sharp are the only players on the current roster who had double-digit 
point totals in 2014.
Jordan, who led the team 
in both goals (19) and points 
(46), described her playing style as a type of a “go-get-ter”, but she isn’t afraid to let the ball come to her.
“I would like to go out and get the ball, but at the same 
time there is times where I 
think the ball should come to me and kind of let the game play itself out,” Jordan said.
Florida is coming off one 
of its biggest recruiting class-es in the program’s history. 
A total of 15 true fresh-
men ﬁ  ll the Gators roster this 
season, nine of which are 
listed as midﬁ  elders.
Freshman Mayra Pelayo, 
a native of West Palm Beach, 
wasted no time getting set-
tled into her new team, scor-ing a goal in the 32nd minute in the ﬁ  rst game of the sea-son — the ﬁ  rst of two goals 
for UF in a 2-0 win over UCF 
on Friday.
Pelayo was frequently in-
volved in the game through-
out her high school years, 
totaling 18 goals and eight assists during her senior year at The Benjamin School in West Palm Beach. 
She also managed 16 goals 
and 34 assists during her sophomore year at American Heritage-Delray.
Alongside Pelayo are fel-
low freshmen midﬁ  elders Briana Solis, Sara Troccoli and Samantha Chung — all of whom have played signiﬁ  -
cant minutes in the Gators’ 
ﬁ  rst two games.
Burleigh said if the mid-
ﬁ  elders play to the ability 
she knows they’re capable 
of, the Gators will overcome the absence of the departed seniors. 
“We have a lot of mid-
ﬁ  elders here and we have a lot of people who are capable of keeping possession,” Bur-leigh said. 
“It’s not one person step-
ping up, it’s everybody doing what they’re capable off.”Gators reloading midﬁ  eld with youth MIND OF MAMINAKIS
The New York Mets are the most exciting team in Major League Baseball.
Yes, you read that correctly. The team 
from Queens that has been riddled with ﬁ  nancial issues, injuries and general lack 
of hope since its last postseason appearance in 2006, its only one since 2000, is back on top.
It’s almost September and the Mets have 
a season-high 6.5 game lead in the National League East over the Washington Nationals. New York is on track to win the division and be a force to reckon with come October. 
You no longer need to wait until the postsea-
son to watch exciting baseball — the Mets are providing that right now.
In their recent four-game stretch from Aug. 
21-24, the team scored 49 runs on 65 hits. On Monday against the Phillies, New York set fran-chise records for number of home runs hit in one game (8) and extra-base hits in one game (15). That was also the ﬁ  rst game back for captain 
and third baseman David Wright, who had been 
stuck on the disabled list since April with a back injury. Wright homered to deep left ﬁ  eld in his ﬁ  rst at-bat.
New York City baseball is once again a two-
headed monster. The Yankees are also in the midst of a pennant race, and the Mets are no longer the punch line of the Subway Series. It’s hard to imagine just how electric the crowds at 
Citi Field will be from Sept. 18-20 when the Mets 
host the Yankees.
The Mets are becoming the Manchester City 
of the MLB. For a long time, they have been per-The Mets are back, 
which is a good 
thing for baseball 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 18Jordan McPherson  / Alligator Staff
Freshman midﬁ  elder Mayra Pelayo celebrates her goal with a teammate during Florida’s 
2-1 win against Troy in an exhibition match on Aug. 11 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Alex 
Maminakis
twitter: @alexmaminakisThey added nine midieldersceived as the littler brother to the Yankees just as Man-
chester City was to the mighty Manchester United. But then Manchester City won two Premier League titles in 
three years. 
The Mets are on that kind of rise. No, they haven’t won 
anything yet, but they will. There is too much talent on 
their team for them to continue to fall short of expecta-
tions. 
Coming into the season, most people knew about the 
strong pitching rotation the Mets have: Matt Harvey, Ja-
cob deGrom, Noah Syndergaard, along with Jon Niese and Bartolo Colon. But what has been impressive has been the 
powerful Mets’ offense, particularly since the July 31 trade 
deadline.
New York brought in Yoenis Cespedes, Juan Uribe, Kel-
ly Johnson and pitcher Tyler Clippard before this year’s 
trade deadline. 
On July 31, the Mets were two games back in the NL 
East. Since then, the team has gone 17-6 in August and the 
Nationals have gone 9-15. In a month, New York has gone from being the lowest scoring team in the National League 
to the highest scoring team. While the Nationals continue 
to slide, the Mets are starting to see the playoff possibility on the horizon, hoping it isn’t the mirage they’ve seen in years past.
The Mets are ﬂ  ying high. They’re winning ballgames, 
their pitching, offense and defense are all running at full strength, and they are on track to win the division and ﬁ  nally get back to the playoffs. And the expectations are quickly growing. ESPN’s Jayson Stark said Tuesday on 
“Mike & Mike” he believes there’s a real chance the Mets 
can make it to the NLCS, if not the World Series.
If they can sustain this level of performance throughout 
September, Stark is right. Only the St. Louis Cardinals’ 
pitching staff can match up to New York’s in the Nation-
al League, but it’s still hard to imagine a scenario where Harvey, deGrom, Syndergaard and possibly rookie Steven Matz, who is currently on the DL, get out-pitched in any series.
This will not be a team that others want to face in the 
playoffs. The Mets’ pitching staff is as good as any in the league, and now, with their offense playing the way it is, the Amazin’ Mets are one scary bunch.Watch a game if you get the chance, it’s worth it. 
You’ll hear the “Let’s Go Mets” chant no matter where 
the game is being played, and you’ll get a small glimpse 
of what has been a truly amazing season for this talented, tight-knit team. 
COLUMN,  from pg 17
AP Photo
New York Mets’ Yoenis Cespedes (52) celebrates with teammate Wilmer Flores after scoring a run on a Michael 
Cuddyer double in the ﬁ  rst inning of a baseball game against the Philadelphia Phillies on Wednesday. 
18   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015THURSDAY, AUGUST 27. 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
There were times where Brantley had 
problems with the direction Lawing tried 
to take with him. 
But that isn’t the case with Rumph, 
who has slowly worked with him and taken a more patient approach with the defensive lineman.
“Coaching was definitely a problem 
for me. Like last year, me and Lawing obviously didn’t get along and it was just a hassle,” Brantley said. 
“I didn’t want to go to practice every 
day because I didn’t want to deal with the kind of coaching I was getting." 
All it took for Brantley to reach his po-
tential was for a coach to take the time 
to develop his skillset and positively en-
courage him to reach his ceiling. 
 He found that in coach Rumph. “Rumph, he’s more patient with me," 
Brantley said. "Coach Rumph just re-
minded me how good I could be if I just 
pushed myself.”  
Now more focused than ever before, 
and with the guidance that he’s been seeking heading into this year, Brantley 
has a chance to make a name for himself 
once the season opens on Sept. 5 against New Mexico State.  
“I’m giving 100 percent every rep. Ev-
ery rep you go, it’s a game situation,” Brantley said. “You’ve got to push your-self, and if you push yourself in practice, it’ll have you ready. Now it feels like re-creation in me.”FOOTBALL,  from pg 16Rumph said 
Brantley has 
talent to shinetries to bring the best version of them-
selves, and by that, we create the best ver-sion of the team and each game that grows 
and grows, I think that we’re going to kill it.”
Florida has true 15 freshmen on this 
year’s roster, and as they continue its sea-
son-opening road trip the team is trying not to let outside pressure affect their game.
“I think it’s trying not to feel like we’re 
under too much pressure to perform. I mean we had a really good ranking at the beginning of the season, and I feel like it’s 
hard not to focus on outside pressures com-
ing in on everyone, especially these fresh-men,” Slattery said.
“We have all this pressure from outside 
forces coming in on us, and I think it’s hard 
to block all that out and focus on the people 
to the right and the left of you and focus on what you have to do for the task at hand.”
The Gators have already seen some 
things in their first two games that they can implement as the season progresses. 
“I think we saw a lot of good things. Def-
initely things we can work on and improve on, but I think our intensity especially com-
ing out against UCF, a really physical team, coming out as strong as we did, getting that 
first one is really big for us,” junior forward 
Savannah Jordan said. “I think also we learned how it is to travel. I know for the 
upperclassmen we know that, but for the 
freshmen it was good to get two games on the road.” 
Jordan scored her 42nd career goal in 
the team’s 2-0 victory against UCF on Fri-
day night. Jordan, a two-time All-American and the 2013 Southeastern Conference Of-fensive Player of the Year, has already seen double teams this season as opponents are 
defending against her scoring abilities.
“Yeah I’ve seen that a little already just 
by playing UCF,” Jordan said. “I think our 
team kind of adjusted well to that.”
Jordan and the Gators aren’t going to 
dwell on their early season loss but think 
it is better that a loss came earlier instead 
of later.
“I think it will just boost us up even 
more,” Jordan said. 
“Kind of light a fire under us. For us, it 
kind of gave us like a wake up call. … be-cause we do have a lot of new freshmen on our team I think that getting that wake up call early on is really great for us."ADVANCE,  from pg 16Slattery: Difficult for UF to ignore pressure and expectations
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Liz Slattery dribbles during Florida's 2-1 win against Troy in an 
exhibition match on Aug. 11 at the soccer practice field at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
the best coaches in Division I 
women’s volleyball history — has only made her better, she said.
“I forget how successful she 
is sometimes because she’s my coach,” Snyder said. “I see her everyday. People in Michigan ask me ‘Can you get me Mary’s auto-graph?’ You forget how big of a deal she is.”
With a year of experience un-
der her belt, Snyder is ready to prove that she can be more con-sistent during her time on the court.
“I know my teammates better. 
I know the coaches better. I know myself as a volleyball player bet-ter,” she said, “so taking all the 
skills I had last year, hopefully 
I’ll see the improvement on the court.”
Come Saturday, the adventure 
will resume.
“It’s amazing playing for a pro-
gram with such a legacy of win-ning,” Snyder said. 
“I couldn’t imagine being any-
where else.”
COLUMN,  from pg 16
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Carli Snyder awaits a play during Florida's 3-1 win against Miami in the second round of the NCAA T ournament on Dec. 6 
in the O'Connell Center. 
“W e have all this pressure from outside 
forces coming in on us, and I think it’s 
hard to block all that out and focus on 
the people to the right and the left of 
you and focus on what you have to do 
for the task at hand.”
Liz Slattery
UF midfielder20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015
