By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
Burgers and fries? There’s an app for 
that. 
As part of the second annual Gainesville 
Burger Week, people who download the 
free Gift Certiﬁ  cates and More app can 
enjoy $5 burgers and fries at 11 different 
restaurants this week. The event began Monday and will continue through Sun-day, with TGI Fridays included for the ﬁ  rst time this year. 
In order to receive the discounted 
meals, people need to show the app to waiters when ordering their burgers and fries, according to Gift Certiﬁ  cates and 
More President Edward Lavagnino.
He said last year the app was redeemed 
more than 2,000 times at 10 Gainesville 
restaurants, and he’s hoping for 3,000 re-demptions this year. 
“We enjoy it because the big thing 
about deals and Gift Certiﬁ  cates and More is that people can go out with friends and family,” Lavagnino said. “We enjoy giving 
people the chance to visit new places for 
cheaper.”
Vellos Historic Brickstreet Grill kitchen 
manager Tyler Johnson said after partici-pating in the event last year, he’s excited to see how many people come this year.
“We had such a large crowd come in 
for lunch on Monday that we realized we needed to order more ingredients for 
burgers and fries for the rest of the week,” 
Johnson said. 
UF ﬁ  nance sophomore Carolina Ham-
moud said she didn’t start eating burgers until her junior year of high school. Now that she’s in college, she eats at least one burger a week and plans to purchase a $5 burger from The Swamp Restaurant or Texas Roadhouse.  
“I think that Gainesville Burger Week 
is a great way to get people to try burgers from places they’ve never been to before,” the 19-year-old said. “It’s a good catch and good marketing.”We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 41 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
Projecting the College Football 
Playoﬀ  
The alligatorSports football team makes its 
picks for the top four teams, pg. 13
UF IFAS opens new research facility in Cedar Key
The building was sold for $585,000, pg. 4
3 Natives acai and juice bar opens
It had its grand opening on Monday, pg. 8Textile Healing
Sexual assault survivors create quilts as a method of healing. Check out the photo story, pg. 9
By Jennifer Louissaint
Alligator Contributing Writer
Under the chiming of Century Tower, stu-
dents gathered to scribble letters of love and 
encouragement Monday.
Students visited the UF Campus Cursive 
tabling event on Turlington Plaza on Mon-
day afternoon spreading words of kindness 
to help encourage and uplift students across UF. The table was piled with 103 love letters by the end of the day, exceeding the original goal of 50.
This was Campus Cursive’s ﬁ  rst event as 
an organization, said co-director Molly Dono-van, a UF journalism sophomore.
After hearing about a UF student’s suicide 
Wednesday, Donovan said she and Campus Cursive co-director Allie Seelig, 19, decided to create a way to help prevent any more from happening.
“Something as simple as a letter is huge,” 
Donovan, 19, said. “You are not alone.”
Students approached the table covered 
with a rainbow of letters and created their own to be placed around campus for students in need of some love.
The event also caught the attention of Stu-dents Advocating Informed Decisions. Its di-
rector, Halle Goodwin, encouraged members 
of the organization to participate in the event. 
Some students who gathered at the event 
saw the impact the letters could have on fel-low students.
“When you receive a compliment from a 
stranger, it makes your day,” said Shannon Domfort, a 19-year-old UF health science and psychology sophomore.
Seelig, a UF biotechnology sophomore, 
said Campus Cursive’s members hope to con-tinue the tradition of writing letters to people who need support.Campus Cursive spreads love to students 
They wrote uplifting letters 
Gainesville celebrates Burger Week
Emma Green / Alligator
UNDERHANDED
Jacob Kissel, an 18-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, 
plays spike ball on Turlington Plaza on Monday. While he has only been playing for a few weeks, Kissel was one of four enthusiasts promoting an upcoming spike ball tournament on Saturday.
The Swamp Restaurant, 1642 W. University Ave.“When you receive a compliment from 
a stranger, it makes your day.”
Shannon Domfort
UF health science 
and psychology sophomore
PARTICIPATING RESTAURANTS
Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffMiller’s Ale House, 3950 SW Archer Road
Chomps Sports Grill, 5109 NW 39th Ave.
Vellos Historic Brickstreet Grill, 115 SE First St.
Beef ‘O’ Brady’s, 1999 NW 43rd St.
Sweet Mel’s, 1 W. University Ave.
Texas Roadhouse, 3830 SW Archer Road
TGI Fridays, 3598 SW Archer Road
The Crafty Bastards, 4860 NW 39th Ave.
Gators Den Sports Grill, 4200 NW 97th Blvd.
Wahoo Seafood Grill, 3833 NW 97th Blvd.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Graduate Student Panel presented 
by HSF
Pre-professional? Come out to our Graduate Student Panel, where students will learn more about 
various graduate schools. The 
event is free, dinner will be pro-vided at no cost and scholarships are presented at every meeting. Join us in Little Hall, Room 239, on Oct. 29 at 7:20 p.m. Please RSVP at bit.ly/1ZsLRKv and join the Facebook group at facebook.com/groups/hsfatuf. GatorNights ThrowBack
GatorNights will have an '80s ThrowBack Carnival-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The 
event will feature a roller skat-
ing rink, carnival games and live music from the band WD-HAN, sponsored by RUB Bands. GatorNights will also be hosting showings of the movie “Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will 
end with free breakfast during 
Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. 
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 41
HIGH  81° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Gainesville Throwbacks
Oct. 21, 2003
Noam Chomsky spoke to a crowd 
of about 4,000 people inside the Ste-
phen C. O’Connell Center about the 
United States’ dilemmas of dominance in foreign policy. While protests were expected to be a possibility, the only 
sounds heard when the 74-year-old 
political dissident took the stage came from the crowd’s standing ovation.
Chomsky took the crowd on a his-
tory trip, starting in the 1980s by dis-
cussing Ronald Reagan’s presidential 
tenure and how he became unpopular after his time in ofﬁ  ce before explain-ing his view on how the U.S. wants to 
dominate the world.
“One of the ﬁ  rst dilemmas is how 
you control the domestic population,” 
Chomsky said.
The event was sponsored by Ac-cent Speaker’s Bureau and the Civic Media Center.
Oct. 19, 1995A Florida Blue Key party at the Sun 
Center was cut short after Gainesville Police arrested seven attendees, four 
of whom were UF students.
Police responded to the Fourth An-
nual Homecoming 1995 Swamp Party 
on the 100 block of SE Second Place at about midnight after residents and 
businesses complained bands at the 
party were playing too loudly, said Gainesville Police Sgt. Joe Stein.
Seven ofﬁ  cers hired by FBK to 
monitor the party made the arrests.
Oct. 22, 1986While UF ofﬁ  cials want to raise the 
student activity and service fee for next year, Student Government lead-ers voted to at least temporarily halt the proposal.
The ﬁ  ve-person Activity and Ser-
vice Fee Advisory Board — three students and two faculty members — voted 3-2 against the proposed fee in-
crease UF administration said it wants 
to see passed.
All three students — Student Body 
President Pan Bingham, Student Body Vice President Russ Bergin and Stu-
dent Body Treasurer Brad Walker — 
voted against the proposal.
If passed, the activity and service 
fee would have risen from $3.81 to 
$4.09 per credit hour.
UF administration said because 
there are about 1,000 fewer students 
at UF than in 1984 — when the fee was initially set to $3.81 per credit hour — the school would need to raise the activity and service fee by at least 11 cents per credit hour in or-
der to compensate for the decrease in 
students. The remaining 17 cents per credit hour increase would go toward funding the Reitz Union and intramu-
ral sports, administrators said.
Oct. 22, 1975
Both city and county commission-
ers voted 4-to-1 in favor of removing 
Sunday alcohol bans. Nov. 2, 1975, 
became the ﬁ  rst day that unfortiﬁ  ed wines and mixed drinks were allowed to be sold between the hours of 1 p.m. 
and 11 p.m.
- Jordan McPhersonBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
University Police Officer Chad 
Holway helped Alex Waler, a 
21-year-old UF biology junior, put 
on a black helmet as she got on his 
parked motorcycle on Turlington Plaza on Monday.
This is how Holway taught stu-
dents the importance of wearing a helmet while on a bike, scooter or motorcycle as part of Student Gov-ernment’s first scooter safety week. Scooter companies also participated 
by donating more than 25 helmets 
to be raffled off Wednesday.
SG members handed out fliers, 
stickers and T-shirts to students 
with the week’s theme: Helmet hair 
is hot.
Sen. Carter Long (Impact, Dis-
trict A) worked to highlight the is-sue of not wearing helmets. She 
said this topic is important to her 
because her Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority sister, Gabriella Molden, was injured while riding her scooter 
without helmets over the summer. 
“My hope is to change the cul-
ture on campus,” Long said.  
While there is no law requiring 
students to wear a helmet on a bi-cycle or scooter, it’s important for 
students to protect themselves, Hol-way said.
When students fall off of a bi-
cycle or scooter, their first instinct is to protect their bodies, not their heads, he said. 
“They think they’re invincible,” 
he said.
The number of bike crashes rose 
from nine to 14 over the last year, according to UPD. No statistics on scooter accidents are kept.
Erica Eldayrie, 19, rides her bike around campus but doesn’t use a helmet most of the time. The UF 
criminology sophomore said she 
feels it’s necessary to wear a helmet when riding a scooter. Following the event, she said she might con-
sider wearing a helmet when she bikes.
She said SG should have had sta-
tistics telling students the number 
of bicycle and scooter accidents UF has each year.
“Sometimes the fear can change 
people’s perspective,” Eldayrie said.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Faith Percival, an 18-year-old UF nutritional sciences freshman, 
mounts a University Police motorcycle on Monday afternoon on Turlington Plaza. UPD helped raise awareness during scooter safe-ty week by encouraging students to wear helmets.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
SG hosts first scooter safety week
The Associated Press
Florida police help take care of a victim who was injured during the shooting at ZombiCon in Fort Myers on Saturday. Police are still trying to identify a suspect.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Fort Myers — Florida police re-
leased a vague description of a sus-
pect who shot into a crowd during 
a zombie festival over the weekend, 
causing people dressed in ghoulish costumes to scream and sprint down the streets.
Authorities have not identified 
a motive or made any arrests, and the investigation was challenging because thousands of people at the event were in costume, wearing 
masks and smeared with fake blood. 
Some even carried fake weapons that looked real.
One person was killed and five 
were wounded.
Police said the shooter is a white 
or possibly Hispanic man in his late teens or early 20s. He was dressed in a black T-shirt and wore a flat-billed, 
black-and-red ball cap. He was spot-
ted firing a black semi-automatic handgun.
Police also released a video from 
someone who was at the festival. In the footage, hundreds of people in costume could be seen milling around, some having their photos taken with a person dressed in a large 
skull head and holding a scythe. Four 
loud pops are heard in the video, and then people start to run.
The shooting happened around 
11:45 p.m. Saturday.
Authorities quickly cleared out 
nearby bars, set up crime scene tape and patrolled the area with rifles. Of-ficials are hopeful that through social 
media, tips and videos, they will find 
the shooter.Police seek clues after 
ZombiCon shootingTHE BUILDING WAS 
SOLD FOR $585,000.
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
A former motel in Cedar Key, 
Florida, now serves as a UF bio-
logical station.  
UF’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences opened its Nature Coast Biological Sta-tion in Cedar Key this fall to 
improve research, teaching and 
resource management on the nature coast, said Mike Allen, a UF freshwater fisheries ecology professor. Allen, the station’s 
director, said the building was 
purchased in Summer 2015 and research has already begun. 
Renovations have also begun 
and will include a clam aqua-culture facility and water treat-ment technology. He said clam aquaculture is an approximately $50 million industry on the Gulf 
Coast.
The college has been doing 
research in the region for de-
cades, and the new lab will en-
hance productivity and help UF 
researchers connect with locals in the community, he said.
“We are going to have an 
opportunity to improve our re-
search in order to make better 
decisions for fish and wildlife agencies,” Allen said.
According to Jack Payne, 
the IFAS senior vice president for agriculture and natural re-sources, the building sold for $585,000 with contributions by UF’s Office of the Provost and Santa Fe College. Santa Fe will 
store boats at the station.
Mike Davis, the owner of 
Cedar Key Seafarms, said he is 
specifically excited about water 
sampling in the new facility.
He said the company had to 
stop farming clams for days as 
it waited on water samples from Florida Fish and Wildlife Con-
servation Commission water 
treatment labs to ensure water contamination was not an issue.
“We will use (the research 
results) to prove the value of what we’re doing down here,” Davis said.
Savanna Barry, a 27-year-old 
UF fisheries and aquatic scienc-es doctoral student, said she is 
looking forward to conducting 
research in the new lab.
“The nature coast is one of 
the best-kept research places in Florida,” Barry said. “This 
research center is going to be a 
really good jumping off point for research in the area.”UF IFAS opens new 
research facility in Cedar Key, Florida
“W e are going to have an 
opportunity to improve our 
research in order to make 
better decisions for fish and 
wildlife agencies.”
Mike Allen
UF freshwater fisheries ecology 
professorTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Prospective students across the 
country will soon be able to see the 
Potato, the French Fries and other UF landmarks from their homes.
UF’s director of social media Todd Sanders said in about one to two weeks, UF will give virtual tours of campus using Periscope, a video-streaming app.
Sanders said Periscope allows us-
ers to ask questions, so they’re ex-pecting tours to have a ﬂ  ow similar 
to in-person tours.
“You’ll get to see campus in its real environment, not something 
that’s been produced and edited,” 
he said.
UF music freshman Macy 
Schmidt said a Periscope tour would 
have been helpful, but she ultimate-ly chose UF when she traveled from Houston, Texas, to tour the campus and speak with professors in her ma-jor.
“I think that, in general, that 
would be a really cool way to save money because Lord knows I ﬂ  y back and forth way too much,” the 18-year-old said.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email that UF tweeted about the Periscope tour Sunday to gauge interest in it.
Becca Chadwick, a high school 
junior from Pewaukee, Wisconsin, said she will be watching the tours when they begin. She said she hopes to attend UF to major in biology and later apply to the veterinary pro-gram.
“Since I live in the Midwest, it’s 
a struggle for me to hop over to UF and tour it,” the 16-year-old said. 
“It’d be nice to have that student 
view of the campus.”UF to use streaming app for live virtual tours of campus
The app is Periscope
“You’ll get to see campus 
in its real environment, 
not something that’s been 
produced and edited.”
T odd Sanders
director of social media
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
Balloons and lanterns will glow outside the 
stadium on Thursday night for those with can-
cer. 
The lights will be part of the annual Light 
the Night Walk on campus, co-hosted by UF’s 
chapters of Pi Delta Psi Fraternity and Premed-
ical Chapter of the American Medical Student Association, to raise money for blood cancer research.
This is the ﬁ  rst year the two organizations 
have partnered to host the walk held on behalf of the Northern and Central Florida Chapter of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. The theme for the event is “Hope is Alive.”
Events will be held throughout the week in 
an effort to gather more funds and to better inform the public, Gabe Abreu, a co-director,  said. They hope to raise $42,500. The UF me-chanical engineering junior and Pi Delta Psi member said he walks for his mother, who passed away from breast cancer in September.
“It will be my own way to ﬁ  ght against can-cer,” he said.
The walk is free and open to the public, 
Abreu said. 
Alexandra Galbo, a co-director for the 
event, will walk for her mother, a Non-Hodg-kin lymphoma survivor. The UF psychology senior said she is concerned with educating people on why the event is important.
“Why not help to ﬁ  ght cancer?” Galbo, 21, 
said. “It really hits home to spread the word.” Night walk for  cancer researchCAMPUS
By Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
A former senator instrumental in writing 
and passing the 1990 Americans with Dis-abilities Act will speak at UF today.
Former U.S. Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) 
will be in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
at 6:30 p.m. in honor of the act’s 25th an-
niversary, said Kevin Baron, a graduate as-sistant at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.
“Getting a caliber speaker like this is a 
unique experience that students don’t often get,” Baron said.
The Graham Center and the Common 
Reading Program at the Dean of Students 
Ofﬁ  ce are hosting the event, which is free 
and open to the public. He is not being paid, but his travel expenses will be covered, said Shelby Taylor, the digital and communica-tions director of the Graham Center.
Baron said the host organizations expect 
Harkin to discuss the history of the legisla-tion and any resulting debates, as well as is-sues people with disabilities face every day.
Jim Gorske, the director of the UF Dis-
ability Resource Center, said the senator 
will attend a reception be-fore speaking and take a tour of Cypress Hall.
“It’s a great opportu-
nity to reﬂ  ect on where services and support and access has come for stu-
dents with disabilities 
since the legislation was 
enacted,” he said.
Tyler Richards, the director of internal 
events for Gators For All Abilities, will be attending the event and said he is interested in getting advice on passing disabilities leg-islature.
“I’ve always been interested in working 
with people and speaking out for people 
who can’t speak out for themselves,” the 
19-year-old UF industrial and systems engi-neering sophomore said.Former U.S. senator visits UF
Harkin
 Today and WednesdayIclada Silva Bone Marrow Drive10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Turlington Plaza
 Wednesday
Blood Cancer Awareness Forum, featuring Dr. Robert Hromas6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in Little Hall Room 101
 Thursday
Light the Night Walk4 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium
 Friday
Boss Party10 p.m. to 2 a.m. at Jolie’sThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Conversion therapy poses threat to LGBTQ+ youth
On Thursday, the U.S. government issued 
a report calling for an end to “ex-gay”  conversion therapy. A practice devastat-ing to LGBTQ+ children and teenagers, conversion therapies “reinforce harmful 
gender stereotypes and are not appropriate men-tal health treatments,” according to a Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administra-tion ofﬁ  cial.
Essentially, conversion therapy is the practice 
of repressing an individual’s sexuality or gender-identity curiosities and replacing them with heterosexual tendencies. Geared primarily toward young LGBTQ+ indi-viduals, the “therapy” consists of one-on-one talk therapy, 
emotional or physical isolation of the child, or, in the most 
tragic cases, abuse through shock therapy and physical harm.
Underlying this practice is the notion that homosexuality 
is unnatural, which prevailed until psychological research in the ‘50s and ‘60s led the American Psychiatric Association, albeit hesitantly, to remove homosexuality from the Diagnos-tic and Statistical Manual-II classiﬁ  cation of mental disorders in 1973.
Not all psychologists agreed with the changing times, 
however, which led to the creation of institutions such as the National Association for Research and Therapy of Ho-mosexuality and Jews Offering New Alternatives for Healing  dedicated to the research of “curing” homosexuality. Such institutions persist to this very day.
On the surface, the conversion therapies appear gentle 
and unimposing. Christopher Rosik, former president of NARTH, contends “people with unwanted same-sex attrac-tions and behaviors have the right to self-determination and 
autonomous decision making in pursuing goals that match 
their values.”
Unfortunately, we live in a society still coming to terms 
with embracing LGBTQ+ people (along with a slew of other minority groups). Consequently, many culturally conserva-tive parents of children who come out or express gender-identity curiosities feel helpless or resent their children’s dif-ferences.As a result, these parents send their children 
to ostensibly professional or religious (sometimes both) institutions to make them “normal.” And the effects can be devastating: A 2014 University of California, Los Angeles, study revealed 22.8 
percent of surveyed LGBTQ+ youth attempted 
suicide the previous year, and a Human Rights Campaign study found family rejection was the No.1 personal problem youths faced.
In fact, LGBTQ+ children are still not protect-
ed by law from being bullied in schools. Sen. Al 
Franken (D-Minnesota) is currently pushing this legislation through the senate, but it is still in progress. And while there is gridlock in Congress, more minority children face isolation 
and depression.
Take the case of Leelah Alcorn, a victim of gender dis-
crimination and conversion therapy. In December 2014, at 
17 years old, Alcorn took her life because, as she expressed in her publicly posted suicide note, “The life I would’ve lived isn’t worth living in…because I’m transgender.” Alcorn ended her note with, “My death needs to mean something. My death needs to be counted in the number of transgender people who commit suicide this year. I want someone to look 
at that number and say ‘that’s f----d up’ and ﬁ  x it. Fix society. 
Please.”
Although many professionals and clerics who facilitate 
conversion therapy claim to operate with humble and noble intentions, the consequences are immensely devastating. 
We have evidence dating back to the ‘70s as well as the 
extensive report released Thursday to prove conversion therapy does not work. Now it is a matter of ridding it from society. Four states — New Jersey, California, Illinois and 
Oregon as well as the District of Columbia — have ofﬁ  cially 
banned gay conversion therapy for LGBTQ+ youths. Even the White House, back in April of this year, called for the banning of conversion therapy.
“Fix society,” Alcorn and thousands just like her have 
asked of us. In my estimation, we have an obligation to.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.As we extend our 
stay in Afghanistan, 
the ghosts of Bush 
and Cheney linger
Following the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. ﬁ  rmly and conﬁ  -
dently planted itself in the Middle East beginning with Afghanistan in late 2001. At the time, there were few 
who would have publicly disagreed with this course of 
action, but then again, how could they? The nation had 
just been attacked on a scale that had never been seen before and has yet to be matched. We were hurt, and, perhaps more 
than anything else, we were scared. Not to go after the men 
who had hurt us so deeply would have been a decision rooted in fear and cowardice.
Fourteen years, two presidents, 40,000 deaths and $715 
billion later, and here we are: still no closer to stabilizing 
the Middle East. Thursday, in a major reversal of policy, 
President Obama announced the U.S. would be renewing its commitment to maintaining a signiﬁ  cant military presence in Afghanistan past 2017 rather than terminating it as originally 
planned.
It doesn’t take a geopolitical strategist to understand why 
Obama, his advisers and the Afghan government would want 
U.S. military forces to stay in the country. Not only is Af-ghanistan suffering internal turmoil with the Taliban’s re-con-
solidation of power, but also the threat of the Islamic State 
group — which has already assumed a degree of control in Nangarhar Province, one of 34 provinces in Afghanistan — looms ever present.
In an ideal world, we could leave the Middle East without 
having to look over our shoulders every so often as we made our way home. In an even more ideal world, the military re-sponse to the 9/11 attacks would have been measured and well coordinated rather than reactionary and short-sighted. 
But we have to live with the cards we’re dealt, even if we’re 
the ones who dealt them in the ﬁ  rst place.
Our geopolitical reality is one wherein the U.S. has effec-
tively trapped itself in an unwinnable war against an unstop-
pable ideology. Our intrusive presence in the Middle East has 
mobilized and informed a generation of young men and wom-en who attribute the awfulness of their lives to the existence of Western culture and military powers. And if we’re going to talk about this honestly, they’re not entirely wrong to jump to 
that conclusion. Misery breeds anger, and if there is one thing 
that has enabled the Islamic State’s continued existence, it is the raw, gushing anger that has infected the Middle East.
Like it or not, we are going to be in the Middle East for the 
foreseeable future. Fourteen years later, the rash decisions of the Bush and Cheney administration have presented our gov-ernment with an impossible choice: Do we leave the Middle East alone to consume itself in the hope the ripple effects won’t be too harsh, or do we allow more Americans to die 
and maintain some kind of say in the quagmire we helped 
create? The answer, painful as it may be, is obvious.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
I’m a people watcher. Whether it be at 
Midtown, Turlington or in class, you can 
often ﬁ  nd me unabashedly staring at peo-ple from a stationary viewpoint — usu-ally just watching, but occasionally taking 
notes. What started as a slightly creepy habit has recently been exacerbated by my indepen-dent research class, which requires me to take extensive ﬁ  eld notes on basically anything I observe people doing. Sure, I was used to standing in a corner at any given social event and idly watching people interact. However, something about taking notes took it to a sociopathic level I wasn’t particularly comfortable with.
For the ﬁ  rst few weeks I situated myself in Starbucks 
or on the Plaza of the Americas and just watched people to my heart’s content, the echoes of my mother’s voice in my head yelling, “Don’t stare, it’s rude!” growing fainter by the minute. Anything that struck me as slightly inter-esting I would take note of. You’d be surprised by how many things I noticed: the way people interacted with friends, recurring themes in conversations and even how people ordered their coffee. Yet, the most prevalent ob-
servations concerned cellphone use.
Ah, cellphones. Between your parents complaining, 
“Your eyes are glued to that phone!” and the constant ar-
ticles decrying our generation’s technological addiction, you just can’t escape the discussion that surrounds our favorite little device.
When you observe people for hours on end, patterns 
are bound to appear. One after another, I watched stu-dents walk through Turlington Plaza without looking up 
once from their phones; a concerning yet impressive skill 
in my estimation, considering I’ve walked straight into lampposts without any distraction to blame. People with headphones in, texting and FaceTiming kept passing me as I marveled at something I hadn’t noticed before be-cause, well, I’m usually on my phone, too. After I start-ed noticing it, I became hyper aware, seeing more and more people completely disengaged with reality whenever I ventured outside my apartment.
I’m really trying to not be that girl — the 
one that whines about the evils of technology 
and praises a time period she never actually 
experienced — because, let’s be honest, that girl’s the worst. I may have a strong distaste for Kindles, but I use my phone just as much as any other 20-year-old college girl. I don’t yearn for “the good ol’ days” or wish people 
sent more letters. Technology has made this world unde-niably better, and for that I’m forever grateful.
However, sometimes it takes watching the video of 
the Arizona State University “selﬁ  e girls” at the Dia-mondbacks game or seeing Eric Pickersgill’s photograph-ic series “Removed” to realize how much time we’re spending staring at a screen and scrolling through use-less information instead of enjoying the moment we’re in. For those who haven’t seen “Removed,” it’s a collec-tion of black-and-white photographs capturing people in everyday situations with the phones removed from their hands. What results is an eerie series of images depict-
ing utter isolation, people blankly gazing at the empty 
space in their hands instead of their families, friends or signiﬁ  cant others.
As I scrolled through some of the photos in the series, 
I was struck with the same guilty cognizance I felt watch-ing students dash through Turlington Plaza with com-plete disregard for what was going on around them. It’s unquestionably difﬁ  cult to ignore those notiﬁ  cations for the sake of being present in the moment, but I promise 
you it’s worth it. Feel free to start some people watching 
of your own, but maybe skip taking notes and potentially creeping out everyone around you.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Life is what happens while you’re on your phoneColumnLetter to the Editor
Homeless of Gainesville need help
The homeless community in Gainesville 
is not doing well. The situation is bad and 
getting worse, regardless of what the news 
media says. The weather is cooling, and in two months, the homeless population here will double as people come south to avoid 
freezing to death during the frigid winter 
up north.
There are about 2,500 people without 
shelter right now, and opportunities for shrinking that number are few and far be-
tween. Tent City closed more than a year 
ago. Bo Diddley Community Plaza closed for a year of renovations in March, al-though several homeless people barely sur-vive in nearby doorways. The St. Francis 
House is reeling, looking for dollars so it 
won’t have to shut its doors on the few who live there. The Salvation Army houses no one and recently cut 80 percent of its 
dinner meals.
Grace Marketplace near the airport is 
in total disarray with GPD responding to 
several calls daily and the administration lacking in a myriad of ways. Extra money 
allotted by the city for Grace is often mis-
spent on kitchen renovations instead of beds for unused buildings on that property. Dignity Village, a misnomer at best for the tent community surrounding Grace, has 
been taken over by the city, which will try 
to straighten out a nightmare where people are knifed over a pack of cigarettes.
The sad fact is 90 percent of Gaines-
ville’s homeless literally live on the street. By December, it will be near freezing. I have lived through a Gainesville winter in a tent, and let me tell you, it’s not fun and I hope that I never have to do that again.
The time is now for intelligent, common 
sense vision and spirited action backed by private donations from the wealthier indi-viduals in the gated communities here. But do these people have a heart for those less 
fortunate than them? Or will it be the same 
old N.I.M.B.Y. (Not In My Back Yard) syn-drome?
When you go to church this Sunday, 
will you propose a new church project to help these poor people? Or will you just sit in your pew for an hour and pretend they don’t exist? What would Jesus do?
Bruce Frendahl
Gainesville resident
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgSelﬁ  es say a lot 
about a person and what vari-ous parts of his or her life is 
like. For some, selﬁ  es can let those you care about know you are alive.
In the October is-
sue of Time magazine, Karl Vick’s “The Great Migration of 2015” explains how Syrian war refugees post selﬁ  es of “re-
lief and joy” to let other refugees 
know they have arrived safely to a Greek island, using SIM cards and solar generators issued to refugee camps by the United Nations. The refugees also use social media to make the jour-ney to new and safer lives by es-sentially following a digital map 
made of posts left by those who 
have already made the trip.
Although we are fortunate to 
live in a country unaffected by postwar destruction and con-tinuous political turmoil that has currently displaced more than six million people, and our self-ies aren’t a signal of life, what 
they say about us as individuals 
is still incredibly signiﬁ  cant.
There are humorous and psy-
chological approaches when it comes to correlating selﬁ  es with speciﬁ  c personality traits, but those aside, what does your story look like? When you look back on your selﬁ  es, those posted to social media 
and those just in your 
camera roll, what do you see?
Are they all the 
same? Same angle, same faces, same ex-
pressions? Are there interesting and different things in a lot of your backgrounds? How many 
selﬁ  es are of only you, and how 
many are with other people? Are you always with the same peo-ple? How different do you look in your photos compared to real life? How often do you post them to social media networks?
Maybe instead of taking so 
many selﬁ  es — half of which end 
up being blurry, poorly framed 
or taken of your “bad side” — you should just take them when it really counts, when you’re with the people you really care about, when you’re just having a good day of selﬁ  e conﬁ  dence, when something really cool is happening wherever you are, 
when it captures something im-
portant.
Haleigh McGill is the opin-
ions editor at The Rocky Moun-tain Collegian in Fort Collins, Colorado.What does your selﬁ  e say?UWire
Haleigh McGill
UWire8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
FREEWHEELING
Ryan Aulton (above), executive director of The Freewheel Project, and his 2-year-old son, Daniel 
(right), level off a retention wall to support a bank on the organization’s bike track on Monday. Aulton said he hopes to finish building the track by the project’s grand opening on Nov. 7. “Baby Danny and I rock it here every night, ” he said. “I call it our labor of love. ”
THE POLICE DOG 
FOUND THE DRUGS.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a Largo man 
Monday morning after he reportedly had 
about 12 pounds of marijuana in his car.
At about 9:35 a.m. Monday, 36-year-old 
Ponce Deleon Collins followed a car too close-
ly while traveling on State Road 93, according 
to a police report.
An officer working with the Alachua Coun-
ty Drug Task Force then pulled over Collins’ silver Kia, according to the report. The officer asked to search the car after he noticed Collins’ hands shaking, but Collins said he didn’t have anything in the car and wouldn’t allow police to search it, according to the report.
Another officer reportedly arrived and walked around the car with a police dog, which eventually smelled drugs.
An officer searched the car and found about 
12 pounds of weed inside a green military bag 
stowed in the trunk, ac-
cording to the report.
Since 1996, Collins has 
received 18 traffic infrac-tions for offenses such as speeding, driving carelessly and running a stop sign, ac-cording to Pinellas County court records. 
This year, he was found 
guilty on charges of obstructing an officer 
without violence and possessing cocaine with-
in 1,000 feet of a place of worship, according to Pinellas County.
Police arrested Collins for marijuana pos-
session with intent to sell and took him to the Alachua County Jail, where as of press time, he remains without bond.Police arrest Largo man for 
having 12 pounds of marijuana
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK — An aging gangster went 
on trial Monday on charges he was in on 
the $6 million Lufthansa holdup in 1978, a 
legendary theft dramatized in the hit film 
“Goodfellas.”
The brazen armed robbery of cash and 
jewelry in the dead of night at a cargo ter-
minal at John F. Kennedy International 
Airport was “the score of all scores” for Vincent Asaro and other mobsters of his generation, Assistant U.S. Attorney Lindsay 
Gerdes said in opening statements in fed-
eral court in Brooklyn, New York.Asaro, 80, teamed with heist master-
mind the late James “Jimmy the Gent” Burke – played by Robert De Niro in the 1990 Martin Scorsese film – “because he knew Burke was someone he could make 
money with,” Gerdes said. “Jimmy Burke 
and Vincent Asaro were true partners in crime.”
The prosecutor told jurors — who had 
been asked on questionnaires if they had seen “Goodfellas” — that Asaro became a real-life member of the Bonanno organized-crime family in the 1970s, following in the footsteps of his father and grandfather. She 
also said he has the mob slogan, “death 
without dishonor,” tattooed on his forearm.
“For him, the Mafia was literally the 
family business,” she said. “The defendant 
is a gangster through and through.”
If convicted of racketeering conspiracy 
and other charges, Asaro faces a maximum 
sentence of life behind bars.Aging gangster goes on trial
LOCAL
By Lexie Bajalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Since coming to UF, Alyssa Rubin has 
missed her favorite restaurant.
The UF engineering freshman said she 
would visit 3 Natives, an acai and juice bar, 
all the time in her hometown of Jupiter, Flor-
ida.
“It’s just different than most other food 
places,” the 18-year-old said, emphasizing 
how she enjoyed all the fruit.
But Rubin said she was beyond excited 
when she found out the restaurant was com-ing to Gainesville. She even took pictures of the restaurant’s upcoming location and sent them to friends.
On Monday, 3 Natives, located at 1023 W. 
University Ave. between Karma Cream and Mother’s Pub and Grill, celebrated its official opening. While the restaurant has been selling 
acai bowls — acai, a berry-like fruit, mixed 
with fruit, granola, peanut butter, honey or coconut — since its soft opening Thursday, they began selling smoothies Monday as part of the grand opening.
Monica Kripps, the restaurant owner, said 
they plan to gradually introduce more variety in their food choices, including wraps, sand-wiches, bagels and cold-pressed coffee.
“Nothing is processed,” she said, adding 
that acai is a healthy food option. “We’re try-ing to make it all go organic, and a lot of it already is.”
Kripps, who decorated the restaurant to 
include a lounge area, said she wants 3 Na-tives to be more than a place to get food and coffee and hopes students come to study and socialize.
The restaurant is currently open from 11 
a.m. to 6 p.m., but she said the hours may change to accommodate the customers.
“The hours are going to vary depending on 
what you guys need,” Kripps said.
Emily Lassandro, a 3 Natives employee, 
said the light-blue walls, beach-themed paint-ings and music give the restaurant a “chill” feel and makes up for Gainesville not having a beach.
“3 Natives feels like a home away from 
home,” she said. 3 Natives acai and juice bar hosts GNV grand opening
“The hours are going to vary depending 
on what you guys need.” 
Monica Kripps
restaurant owner
Collins
NATIONAL
“For him, the Mafia was literally the 
family business. The defendant is a 
gangster through and through.”
Lindsay Gerdes
Assistant U.S. Attorney TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Textile Healing
Sexual assault survivors 
came together to quilt their stories on Mon-day evening at Wild Iris Books, a feminist 
bookstore at 22 SE Fifth Ave. The evening was the last of three monthly workshops at Wild Iris, where participants created squares for The Mon-ument Quilt, a project that collects stories from rape and abuse survivors on red fabric squares and displays them in public spaces around the U.S.
All photos by John Hursh / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
Erica Merrell, a co-owner of Wild Iris Books, chooses fab-ric to use on a square for The Monument Quilt. She said the workshop was held to help survivors heal and to combat rape culture.
FAR LEFT:
Participants use felt, zippers, stencils and paint to create squares for The Monument Quilt. Merrell said the finished blanket will be more than a mile long.
LEFT:
A survivor, whose name was not given due to the nature of the event, sews her fabric square for The Monument Quilt.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
MUST SEE-
3/2 house minutes from UF and Shands.Beautiful inside - upgraded kitchen with granite and stainless steel appliances, large fenced in back yard. $1400. 727-512-2468. Available immediately.    10-20-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-23-15-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 8 ElectronicsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. 
Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
Girls Place is Your First Place to Make a Difference! Now hiring CDL drivers, af-ter school counselors and tutors. Visit GirlsPlace.net for details. @girlsplaceinc    10-21-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
A North Florida sign-language teacher and/or lead teacher aide is presently on duty in Alachua County. Call my service, obtain ref-erences, etc. 352-375-8606     10-26-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
15 Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida volleyball team 
is riding the strength of its blockers midway through the team's Southeastern Conference slate. Read the story on pg. 14.Even after seven weeks of the 
college football season has come and gone, the fight to 
be a top-four team and clinch 
a spot in the College Football 
Playoff is still too close to call. But at the halfway mark of the season, 
each member of the alligatorSports 
football group — sports editor Gra-ham Hall, assistant sports editor Luis Torres, staff writer Graham Hack and managing/online editor Jordan 
McPherson — has his own thought 
of who will be playing for the na-tional title come January. If the sea-son were to end today, here is who 
each writer would have in their Final 
Four:
Hall: Baylor Bears, LSU Ti-
gers, Michigan State Spartans, 
Clemson Tigers
Led by junior quarterback Seth 
Russell, who has thrown for 1,907 
yards and an NCAA-leading 27 
touchdowns in just six games, Bay-
lor has blown its opponents out of 
the water. 
LSU, led by Heisman Trophy 
frontrunner Leonard Fournette, 
seems like the clear-cut favorite to 
win the Southeastern Conference. 
The Tigers should run the table the 
rest of the way despite road contests 
against a hungry Alabama team and 
Ole Miss. 
Michigan State hasn’t looked 
impressive in recent weeks — close contests against a weak Purdue 
team and a miraculous victory over Michigan in The Big House haven’t 
done the Spartans any favors in the 
polls — but the team is undefeated 
and has just one opponent remain-ing that could ruin the team’s playoff hopes: Ohio State. 
The Clemson Tigers have impres-
sive wins over Notre Dame and I 
fully expect coach Dabo Swinney’s 
team to take care of business against Florida State in three weeks. 
Torres: Ohio State Buck-
eyes, Baylor Bears, Utah Utes, 
Clemson Tigers
Ohio State hasn’t blown its op-
ponents out of the water this sea-son like everyone expected, but the 
Buckeyes are still the best team in 
the country. While Urban Meyer 
continues to rotate Cardale Jones and J.T. Barrett as quarterback, Ohio State is still ranked a respect-able 30th in total offense this season. 
Baylor has the most explosive of-
fense in the country and quarterback Combine Russell with a solid ground game and the Bears should be able 
to reach the Final Four.
Utah may be a surprise to some, 
but while the Utes don’t have the 
most impressive numbers in the country — they rank 70th in total 
offense and 50th in total defense — 
they get the job done. 
And finally there’s Clemson. The 
Tigers have an impressive win on 
their resume when they beat then-
No. 6 Notre Dame 24-22 at home. The Tigers are stout defensively as they are tied for 12th in the nation in passing defense. 
Hack: Ohio State Buckeyes, 
Baylor Bears, Alabama 
Crimson Tide, Stanford Cardinal
The Buckeyes haven’t been the 
most impressive team this season, 
but how can you blame them? If it’s 
tough for you and I to get excited for 
games against Central Michigan and Indiana, it’s tough for the players, 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators in the NFL
Thirty one former Gators are currently on NFL rosters. Riley Cooper became 
the lone former Florida player to record a touchdown when he scored in the first quarter for the Philadelphia Eagles on Monday night. Reggie Nelson had a team-high 11 tackles in Cincinnati's 34-21 win over the Buffalo Bills. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
LSU running back Leonard Fournette carries the ball during the Tigers' 35-28 win against Florida 
on Saturday at Tiger Stadium in Baton Rouge, Lousiana. 
Picking the College Football Playoff teams midway through the season
FLORIDA FOOTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
The Florida football team has had its 
share of kicking woes this year, and now the team is looking for some help.
The Gators announced on Monday that 
they are holding walk-on tryouts in search of place kickers since Austin Hardin and Jorge Powell have dealt with their share of injuries and inconsistencies making field goals.   
The Florida recruiting office tweeted out 
on Monday: “All calls for kickers! #Gators are looking for walk-on kickers. Visit the football office today by 4:30 p.m. to sign up for a tryout.” 
Neither kicker on the team has impressed 
so far through seven games. Hardin began the season as the starter and was 3-of-3 but missed his next three attempts before being 
sidelined with a right leg injury. The Atlanta 
native also has the team’s longest field goal 
this season at 37 yards. 
Powell, a walk-on him-
self, filled in the last four games after Hardin’s in-jury and made 2-of-3 field goals, while also missing an extra point.
He was injured during 
a kickoff in the first quar-
ter of Florida’s 35-28 loss 
to LSU on Saturday and was helped off of the field by trainers. 
Powell was seen after the game on 
crutches and he will miss an unspecified amount time.
The Gators’ 55.6 percent field goal per-
centage is tied for 114th in the nation out of 128 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision. Gators hold kicker tryouts
THE GATORS ARE ONE OF 
THREE TEAMS ATOP THE 
SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE. 
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Despite there being just three regular 
season games remaining on the schedule, a lot can change for the No. 13 Florida soccer team from now until the end of the season.
The Gators are one of three teams sitting 
atop the Southeastern Conference with 16 points apiece, joined by Thursday night’s opponent, South Carolina, and Missouri.
As if that isn’t comfortable enough for 
Florida, three teams — Auburn, Ole Miss and Texas A&M — are just one point behind the conference leaders.
A couple of bad games, or even bad mo-
ments, can be costly considering how close the SEC table is. 
The previous two games for the Gators 
had great potential to put the team in a deep hole heading into the final two weeks, if not for multi-goal leads.
On Oct. 11 at home against LSU, with 
Florida up 2-0, a goal that built up off a LSU free kick landed in the back of the net, end-ing the shutout opportunity. However, the Gators still escaped with three points.
On Friday night in Starkville, Mississippi, 
another 2-0 lead was shortened against Mis-sissippi, this time with just seconds remain-ing in the game. 
A long throw-in from the Bulldogs’ Ari-Florida soccer faces 
challenges in final stretch
Powell
SEE PLAYOFFS,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFFSBy Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
You can’t hit through it.
You can only hope to hit over or 
around it.
Constructed with outstretched 
arms and firm palms, Florida volley-
ball’s wall of blockers was dynamic 
Sunday, just as it has been all sea-son.
The Gators’ blockade turned in a 
season-high 17 blocks in the 3-1 win over Kentucky in Lexington, Ken-tucky.
The last time UF had more total 
team blocks came on Oct. 12, 2007, 
when Florida put up 17.5 against Ar-
kansas.
Coach Mary Wise knew the per-
formance was special.
“It was really the defense that car-
ried us,” she said. “Seventeen blocks in four sets against a very good of-fensive team speaks volumes to our team’s serving and our blocking.”
Behind UF’s barrage of blocks 
was sophomore middle blocker Rha-mat Alhassan. The Glenarden, Mary-land, native tallied 10 blocks alone.
But those numbers are expected 
from her.
Alhassan, who has led the na-
tion in blocking for a majority of the season, still sits atop those rankings 
with 1.92 blocks per set and has an-
chored Florida’s 3.06 team blocks per set.
What’s even more impressive is 
how much better she is from last year.
Alhassan had 79 stuffs through 
her first 17 games in her freshman season last year. The 6-foot-4 middle blocker has 121 blocks through her first 17 games this season.
And it’s not just Alhassan carry-
ing the load.
Senior setter Mackenzie Dagos-
tino has helped fortify the backbone of the blocking unit. 
Dagostino has already racked up 
53 block assists this year, one shy of her 54 all of last season.
For the Tampa native, it’s all 
about the mindset.
“It’s just a ‘I’m not gonna let you 
hit past me anymore’ mentality,” she said after UF’s 3-0 win over Auburn Oct. 11. “We’re gonna try and stop 
every single thing you do.”
Florida dropped its first South-
eastern Conference match this sea-
son to Kentucky on Sept. 27, but Wise said she and her team never talked about revenge.
Instead, they went back to the 
drawing board.
Wise said associate coach Dave 
Boos put together a game plan based on how the Wildcats beat them.
“This is what they did to find 
kills, (and) this is how we weren’t able to find kills the first time we played them,” Wise said. 
“Then the work we put in over 
the next month, if we do this we’ll see good results, and that’s what 
happened.”
In the end, Florida’s elite-level 
blocking prevailed and helped  serve Kentucky its first SEC loss of the sea-
son on Sunday.
With four straight wins, the 
Gators have slowly climbed their way up the conference rankings and now sit fourth behind Texas A&M with a 5-3 SEC record.Florida now prepares for two 
matches this weekend against oppo-
nents who it has already lost to this 
season — Arkansas and Missouri.
“We’ve either played on the road 
or played a ranked team every single weekend so far,” Wise said. “You gotta have your A-game in 
the SEC.”
But as her squad picks up steam, 
Wise has been satisfied.
With a confident smile, Wise 
needed three words to sum up her team’s play: “We’re feeling it.”14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF senior Diego Hidalgo hits a closed-stance forehand during the singles semifinals of 
the USTA/ITA Southeast Regional Championships on Sunday at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan and setter Mackenzie Dagostino go up for a block during Florida’s 3-0 win against Ole Miss on Sept. 25 in the O’Connell Center. 
VOLLEYBALL
THE DUO BEAT THE NO. 1 
RANKED TEAM IN THE NATION.
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
The USTA/ITA Southeast Regional Tour-
nament at the Ring Tennis Complex in 
Gainesville ended Monday after the singles and doubles finals.
Senior Diego Hidalgo competed in the 
singles final draw Monday morning. Hidalgo eventually fell 6-2, 6-3, to USF’s Roberto Cid.
Cid was the tournament’s No. 1 seed and 
defeated four different Gators over the course of the week-long tournament.
As of last season, the highest ranking that 
Hidalgo held in singles was on Feb. 10 at No. 34. Hidalgo played as the No.1 singles player for the Gators last season.
In the 2013-14 season, Cid went 1-1 against 
the Gators. 
He defeated then-freshman Elliott Orkin, 
6-2, 6-3. Later in the season, Cid lost to then-junior Florent Diep, 3-6, 7-6 (5), 6-1, in a three set battle.
In doubles action, Hidalgo and fellow se-
nior Gordon Watson defeated Georgia’s No.1-ranked doubles pairing of Austin Smith and 
Ben Wagland, 6-3, 6-4 in the semifinals Mon-
day morning.
This is not the first time these doubles 
teams have met. Early in the 2014-15 season, the teams met for their annual match when Florida was ranked No. 17. Smith and Wa-gland defeated Hidalgo and Watson, 7-6 (9-7). 
The Gator duo caught up to the Bulldogs 
and forced the match into a tiebreak, but would eventually lose.
The Gators and Bulldogs met early in the 
2014-15 season, with UF taking a tough 4-1 loss. Smith defeated then-sophomore Maxx Lipman, 6-1, 6-4. 
Wagland played against then freshman 
Chase Perez-Blanco in what would be an un-finished three-set match; 3-6, 7-6 (7-0), de-fault.
Hidalgo and Watson moved on to the fi-
nals of the doubles main draw. The Gator duo took down UNF’s Jack Findel-Hawkins and Yannick Zeurn in a straight set victory going 7-5, 6-4.
In the 2014-15 season the Gators faced the 
Ospreys at the Florida Invitational. The Gators went 5-0 against UNF in the third day of play. In singles play, Findel-Hawkins was defeated by Lipman, 6-2, 6-1.
In the doubles draw of the Florida Invi-
tational Hidalgo and Watson saw Findel-Hawkins and then partner Norbert Nemcsk. The Gator duo defeated the Ospreys 8-5 on the first day of play. 
The pairing of Hidalgo and Watson held 
the No. 28 spot on Feb. 10 of last season. They played as the No. 1 doubles team last season.
The Gators have a quick turnaround this 
week. They head to Auburn, Alabama, on Friday for the Southeastern Conference Fall Event, which runs through Oct. 26. Many of the teams the Gators faced this past weekend 
will be attending the upcoming tournament.
Coach Bryan Shelton said he believes that 
this year’s team is better in shape to handle 
the rigorous schedule of this semester.
The pre-tournaments lead to the USTA/
ITA National Indoor Championships being held on Nov. 12-15.UF seniors take doubles titleBlockers continuing to set the tone for resurgent Gators too. 
Ohio State still has the most 
talent in the nation, though, and 
once Urban Meyer stops messing 
around and makes J.T. Barrett his permanent starting quarter-back, this team will be ready to 
roll for its big games at the end 
of the year.
Baylor’s offense, simply put, 
is unstoppable. The Bears are av-eraging 63.8 points per game — more than 13 points a game more 
than the next closest team — and 
if the defense can get a stop or two, it’s game over for the oppo-sition.
In terms of resume, Alabama 
trails LSU. But the Crimson Tide would beat the Tigers on a neu-tral field right now, and unluckily for LSU, the two teams will play 
in Tuscaloosa on Nov. 7. 
Stanford’s title chances took a 
hit with an opening weekend loss 
to Northwestern on Sept. 5, but since then, the team has rolled 
off five-consecutive wins and 
looks to have its swagger back. 
The Cardinal will be favored 
in every game left on its sched-
ule until a final home matchup 
against Notre Dame.
McPherson: Baylor 
Bears, LSU Tigers, Ohio State Buckeyes, Clemson 
Tigers
Baylor is the best team in the 
country right now. Even with a 
middle-of-the-road defense, the 
Bears’ offense that’s averaging a 
ridiculous 719.7 yards per game and 8.94 yards per play while scoring at least 52 points will 
carry them to victory every time.
LSU has the best offensive 
player in the country in Heis-
man Trophy frontrunner Leonard Fournette and a defense that can 
compete with any team in the na-
tion. 
If Brandon Harris can con-
tinue the success he had over 
the last two weeks (430 passing yards, four touchdowns, zero in-
terceptions), the Tigers’ offense will be even scarier than it al-ready is.
OSU’s biggest tests will come 
in the final two weeks of the sea-son against Michigan and Michi-gan State, but the Buckeyes have 
done enough for me early in the 
season to justify keeping them in the top four.
I’ve liked what Clemson has  
done this season. A quality win 
over then-No. 6 Notre Dame, a 
top-10 defense and commend-able work from both quarterback Deshaun Watson and running 
back Wayne Gallman give the Ti-
gers the push they need.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
AP Photo
Ohio State quarterback J.T. Barrett drops back to pass against Penn State during the second half of the Buckeyes' 38-10 
win on Saturday at Ohio Stadium in Columbus, Ohio. 
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
For the second straight tour-
nament, No. 18 Florida sprung 
to life in round two after burying 
itself beneath the competition in 
round one. 
UF had the best round two 
score of any team on Monday, 
finishing the day with a 1-over 
289 at the Tavistock Collegiate in Windermere, Florida. The Gators moved up four spots into eighth place and are 16-over par for the tournament at Isleworth Country 
Club.
So far, the Tavistock Collegiate 
has played out eerily similar to 
the Jerry Pate National, which the 
Gators competed at in Birming-
ham, Alabama, on Oct. 5. At the Jerry Pate, the Gators began with a disappointing opening round (7-over) and came roaring back 
to finish in second place after in-
credible second and third rounds.
Coach JC Deacon was con-
fident the team would flip the script with their backs against the wall, just as they did in Alabama. 
“We had a great practice ses-
sion and a great team meeting last night,” Deacon said in a release. 
“And I told the guys in the meeting that I knew that they were going to come out and play well today. We just needed to fig-ure out how to do that in the first 
round, but they came out really 
focused this morning.”
Sophomore Alejandro Tosti led 
the way for UF, shooting a 2-un-der 70 on Monday and is now tied 
for seventh individually.
“The biggest thing for Ale was 
composing himself after that 7 he 
made on his second hole yester-
day,” Deacon said.  “He’s prob-
ably played better than anyone in the whole field since then.”
Junior Ryan Orr was the other 
low Gator on Monday, logging a 1-under 71 and putting himself in the top 20.
Individually, Cal’s Collin Mori-
kawa leads all golfers at 7-under. 
ASU’s Max Rottluff and Jon Rahm 
are in second and third, respec-tively.
As a team, California holds 
a commanding lead at 7-under 
and is the only team below par 
through two rounds. No. 1 Illi-nois is in second place at 2-over, followed by No. 19 Arizona State 
in third.
The Gators will look to climb 
further up the leaderboard today 
when they tee off for their third and final round at 8 a.m.Gators men's golf rebounds after rough opening round
“The biggest thing for Ale 
was composing himself after 
that 7 he made on his second 
hole yesterday. He’s probably 
played better than anyone in 
the whole field since then.”
JC Deacon
UF men's golf coach
PLAYOFFS,  from pg 13Ohio State is the No. 1 ranked team in AP Poll
ana Holmes landed in the top of the box, 
eventually finding the foot of Kennadi Car-bin, who put the ball behind Florida goalie Valerie Tysinger with just three seconds to spare.
Another attempt at the first conference 
shutout was foiled. 
“In both those instances, our team was 
pretty disappointed, even with the win,” UF 
coach Becky Burleigh said.
If Gators had just one goal going into each 
of the situations, they would have lost four 
points in the standings, pushing them down the rankings into a seventh-place tie with 
Vanderbilt.
Despite the frustrating errors, the Gators 
ended up with the victory in each of those 
two games, and Burleigh said the end result is what the team will focus on. 
“It’s a lot more fun to learn while you’re 
winning then while you’re losing,” she said. 
Considering the fact that both of the goals 
were allowed on set pieces, the teaching mo-ments for Florida will likely revolve around how it defended free kicks, throw-ins and corner kicks.
Another point that Burleigh wants to get 
across to her team is delivering two solid halves, rather than relying on one exception-al 45-minute half to secure points.
This was evident in each of the last two 
games, in terms of shots.
Against LSU, Florida was outshot six to 
four in the first half but came out firing in the second half, with 17 shots to the Tigers’ five.
In the Mississippi State game, the first half 
served as the more dominant of the two. 
After outshooting the Bulldogs seven to 
two in the first 45 minutes, Florida took six shots and allowed five to the opposition.
“The second of our Mississippi state game 
wasn’t as clean,” Burleigh said. “We want to be able to put together two 45-minute halves”
Now in a tight spot with little time left be-
fore the SEC tournament, the only thing the 
Gators can do is limit mistakes and manage 
their game.  
“What is in our control,” Burleigh said. “is 
winning each moment.”SOCCER,  from pg 13UF has four 
games left in 
regular seasonFlorida had the best round of any team16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CINCINNATI — The NFL Network has 
apologized to Bengals players who were 
shown naked in the locker room during a post-game interview Sunday in Buffalo.
A network reporter was interviewing cor-
nerback Adam “Pacman” Jones after a 34-21 win, and the videographer’s angle included the entrance to the shower area. Several players were shown naked in the background.
NFL Network Executive Vice President Alex 
Riethmiller said during a conference call on Monday that the crew didn’t follow network procedures that would have prevented it.
“It is a regrettable mistake by a production 
team, and one where we’ve already done a pretty thorough review of the procedures and processes that were dropped along the way to make sure that it doesn’t happen again,” Ri-ethmiller said.
Left tackle Andrew Whitworth was one of 
those shown. Whitworth, who is the team’s 
union representative, said on Monday that the 
league should restrict media access to prevent it from happening again.
He said the media shouldn’t be allowed in 
the locker room while players are showering and dressing. 
“It’s just not right,” Whitworth said. 
“There’s no office, there’s no other situation in America where you have to do that. It’s dated, it’s old and it needs to change.”
Riethmiller isn’t authorized to talk about the 
league’s media access policies. He apologized “to everyone that was affected, to the players to the organization to the viewing public, first 
and foremost.”
Whitworth said an apology alone “won’t be 
good enough.”
“This is a big issue to me,” he said. “I’ve 
pressed this issue before with our union and the fact I think it’s wrong. This is my office 
space. I shouldn’t have to change in it and be in front of people I don’t know or really don’t have any purpose for being near me other than the fact they are interviewing other people.”
Whitworth said there would be more con-
cern if a female athlete was shown undressed.
“If I was a woman, this would be a com-
pletely different subject, and it would be a complete firestorm,” Whitworth said. “We can’t always just serve women and everyone else. Men deserve a right too. We have rights. We have privacy. We deserve all the things we want as well.”
NFL Network apologizes for showing naked Bengals players