By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
It began with the American na-
tional anthem.
But as the ﬁ  nal notes of “The 
Star-Spangled Banner” faded across 
Turlington Plaza, two different ﬂ  ags appeared on the sides.
As the national ﬂ  ags of France 
and Lebanon were held, excerpts 
from the countries’ national an-
thems were read aloud.
A crowd of about 100 students 
listened, cradling candles as they held back tears.
In light of a series of terrorist 
attacks that ravaged Paris and Bei-
rut, UF Student Government hosted 
a ceremony Monday to mourn the 
victims of the bombings and gunﬁ  re 
that killed approximately 172 people 
Thursday and Friday.
But even as they stood, symbol-
izing peace and solidarity, the reali-ties of the situation lingered.
While Georges Akiki, 29, read 
his country’s anthem in Arabic, a 
University Police ofﬁ  cer and his po-
lice dog, Boomer, stood at attention. 
Before the event, Boomer sniffed 
around Turlington for explosive de-
vices or any other suspicious activ-
ity.
It was a measure Courtnie Mood-ie, the SG director of community involvement and service, requested after she said she received suspi-cious messages on the event’s Face-book page that made her nervous. She declined to specify what the comments were.
Even with the police presence, it 
was only in the ﬁ  nal moments be-fore the vigil Moodie decided to al-low the UF mechanical engineering doctoral student to speak in Arabic.
She was worried for his safety, 
she said.
Akiki was just happy SG includ-
ed Beirut in its memorial service. Many in attendance had heard of the Paris attacks before those in Bei-rut, despite the latter happening a day prior.
“I’m glad they recognized both... 
and show people again that it’s not just another story out of the Middle East; people did lose their lives,” Akiki said. “For some reason, when destruction and murder become reg-ular, it becomes a statistic and not an event.”
Leonardo Villalón, the dean of 
UF’s International Center, told the crowd the only way to combat ha-tred and terror propagated by ex-tremist groups like the Islamic State Group is to stand together.
“I have to say that I ﬁ  nd myself at 
a loss trying to understand some of the events we’re living in, including the ones we’re commemorating to-day,” Villalón said. “As hard as they 
are to understand, they’re a reality 
of our world, and they are a reality of the challenges that we face and that we’re gonna continue to face.”
As Rima Chakhtoura held the 
red, white and green ﬂ  ag of her peo-ple, she tried not to cry. She still re-members the beautiful summers she would spend in Lebanon, her home 
country.
“It would be a lot more beautiful 
if everybody just left it alone and let 
us have our peace,” she said.
As the wind began to blow, can-
dle ﬂ  ames began to extinguish as the ceremony drew to a close.
While the crowd dispersed, 
many stopped to scribble words of encouragement on a white banner draped over a concrete table on the plaza.
In the middle, scrawled in black 
Sharpie, there was a single French phrase.
“Paix Mondiale,” the words read 
— world peace.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 60 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
UF men’s basketball dominates in home opener
The Gators defeated North Carolina A&T
 104-54, pg. 13
Research Roundup
Free speech, simplifying shapes and eyesight improvement, pg. 3
C-SPAN bus comes to UF
A UF professor will be interviewed, pg. 9Two months later: Looking at 
the accused in covert operation
A look into four of 22 suspects arrested for re-
portedly trying to solicit sex with minors, pg. 5
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Leonardo Villalón, the dean of UF’s International Center, spoke at the vigil. He said the only antidote to 
terror is coming together in solidarity despite cultural and religious differences.
Trying to understand
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
For the ﬁ  rst time, the UF Student Body 
president wasn’t speaking solo at the State 
of the Campus Address. 
On Monday night, Joselin Padron-Ra-
sines shared Student Government’s accom-plishments and future projects alongside Student Body Vice President Kevin Doan 
and Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre.
That wasn’t the only tradition broken at 
the annual 2015 State of the Campus Ad-
dress, which was standing-room only in Emerson Hall. The three executives mem-
bers revealed they have donated their ex-
ecutive salaries to the Machen Florida Op-portunity Scholars.
Since the executive branch took ofﬁ  ce, it 
also has held vigils for the Paris and Beirut 
bombings and the Umpqua Community Col-
lege shooting, made SG ﬁ  nances accessible through Docutraq, decreased the SG budget for the 2016-17 ﬁ  scal year, held the ﬁ  rst 
scooter safety week and lobbied for funding 
for UF buildings.
Carre said SG’s Docutraq system, a PDF 
on the SG website, allows students to see where SG is giving money and how orga-nizations are using it. The reports are cur-rently published about once a month, but Carre said he hopes to make them available to students immediately through UF’s ISIS. 
Carre said SG was able to decrease the 
SG budget this year by 0.08 percent. The decrease was part of an initiative to spend money responsibly.
“Being mindful is one of the key points 
of my administration,” he said.
SG also made Marston Science Library 
the 24-hour library during summer. After hearing complaints about the number of 
outlets on the upper ﬂ  oors, an initiative to 
add more outlets to the upper ﬂ  oors was put in the works, Carre said. 
Padron-Rasines said her administration 
has made SG more accessible to students, SG executives donate salaries to scholarship
SEE SG, PAGE 4
Joselin Padron-Rasines
UF Student Body President“Being mindful is one of the key points 
of my administration.”
Nicholas Carre
Student Body Treasurer Vigil held for Paris, BeirutSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gators for UNICEF Squat Challenge
While toilet day may seem like 
a joke, there are actually 2.5 bil-lion people around the world (1 in 3) who do not have access to 
sanitary facilities. The goal is to 
raise awareness for this issue with an event Thursday at 12:35 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas to attempt to break the record for most people squatting in one place. The current record is 118 people, and the hope is to chomp that with more than 150 people 
in attendance. Free pizza will 
be provided, and the event will only take 10 minutes. For more information, visit facebook.com/events/1046268918719333.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Local Bands ShowcaseReitz Union Board Entertainment 
will be hosting its first Local 
Bands Showcase on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The show will feature local bands from Gainesville, including Insignificant Other, Pyramid and Poblano.
Celebrating “The Originator”: The 
Bo Diddley LegacyRock ‘n’ roll legend Bo Diddley’s only appearance on “The Ed Sullivan Show” was Nov. 20, 1955, and Friday marks the 60th anni-versary of his performance. The George A. Smathers Libraries are commemorating it with an event, Celebrating “The Originator”: The 
Bo Diddley Legacy, on Friday at 
noon in the Scott Nygren Scholars Studio, Room 212, in Library West. The celebration will fea-ture a short presentation on the influence of Bo Diddley on rock ‘n’ roll history by David Carlson, executive director of the Center of Media Innovation and Research 
at UF. A companion exhibit in 
the cases outside will highlight Diddley’s legacy and his appear-ance on campus in Spring 2003. It is free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Don’t 
Lose Your Zen event Friday from 
8 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. The event will feature massage chairs, group fitness classes and comedian Joe Mande sponsored by Reitz Union Board Entertainment. The event will also show the movie “Straight Outta Compton” at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Comedian Joe MandeOn Friday at 9:30 p.m., head over to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to watch stand-up co-median Joe Mande perform dur-ing GatorNights. Mande is a co-median/writer/actor. He wrote for “Parks and Recreation” for its last three seasons. Other writing 
credits include “Kroll Show” and 
the Aziz Ansari series “Master of None” for Netflix. 
Festive, Fun Holiday Shopping, 
Friday through SundayHoly Trinity Episcopal Church’s highly anticipated annual Holiday Bazaar opens Friday at 7 p.m. 
with a $5 entrance fee at the door. 
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. before 5 p.m. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 60
HIGH  82° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF doctoral candidate finds 
freedom of speech restricted in schools
A UF doctoral candidate found school 
faculty and staff have greater restric-
tions on their First Amendment rights.
For two years, Jesse Gates, the assis-
tant principal at W.D. Hartley Elemen-
tary School in St. Augustine, researched 
how teachers can understand what their free-speech rights are in regards to social media. He said he studied the First Amendment’s laws relating to pub-lic speech versus private speech and speech as an employee.
Gates said public employees’ free-
dom of speech is not fully protected by 
the Supreme Court, which is why school 
districts around the state have started creating social-media policies.
“As public employees, we are limited 
as to what we can or cannot say,” he said.
Gates said his research shows there 
is very little a teacher can post on social media that can’t legally get him or her 
ﬁ  red.
The Alachua County School Board 
adopted a social-media policy in 2012, 
wrote ACSB member April Grifﬁ  n in an email. It advises staff to not communi-cate with currently enrolled students 
because the communication could ap-
pear inappropriate.
Gates said a lack of policy isn’t to 
blame when teachers communicate in-appropriately with students over social media.
“In my research, the ethics are the 
real thing that teachers need to follow,” he said.
Jen Cheveallier, 31, an eighth grade 
English teacher at P.K. Yonge Develop-mental Research School, said she has a Facebook but only accepts students’ friend request after they have graduated 
from her school.
Gates said the courts have given 
school districts leeway in determining 
what social media interaction with stu-dents is appropriate.
“It’s more of a philosophical discus-
sion,” Gates said. “There’s law and then there’s practical life.” 
- Ashley Martin
Researcher develops software 
to simplify shapes in nature
A UF research technician developed 
free computer software that makes 
studying honeybees easier.
Tomas Bustamante, who works at 
the UF Honey Bee Research and Exten-
sion Lab, created the program, called 
MorphoMetric, which makes it easier for people to study morphology.  Mor-phology is the analysis of the shape and the structure of living things, he said.
Because it is designed to be user-
friendly, Bustamante, 25, said even chil-dren can use it to understand why the shapes of different animals are impor-
tant. For example, the shape of a honey-
bee’s wings affects how it ﬂ  ies, he said.
The software collects measurements 
from images it captures, and then it or-ganizes the data in a cohesive and sim-ple way.
Bustamante started his research a 
year and a half ago, and the ﬁ  nal soft-ware product is projected to take anoth-
er six months to develop.
Currently, the prototype can only be 
used on honeybees. He said he will need 
more time to turn it into something that has a more general application.
Bustamante said MorphoMetric will be a useful educational tool and it could help people in biology and morphology ﬁ  elds understand how to better preserve the environment.
“You need to know what is there be-
fore you know what to do with it,” he said.
The team of researchers is accepting 
donations for the project at igg.me/at/
MorphoMetric.
- Rachel Howard
Drug protects against eye 
disorder
A UF professor found that it may be 
possible to delay age-related vision loss.
Alfred Lewin, a professor in the UF 
College of Medicine’s Department of 
Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, 
and other UF Health researchers found 
a drug that improves eyesight in mice with macular degeneration and helps to protect human retinal cells.
Macular degeneration is an eye dis-
order that slowly destroys sharp, central vision and makes it difﬁ  cult to see ﬁ  ne details and read, Lewin said.
Lewin said this eye disorder affects 
10 percent of people older than 65 and can lead to depression.
“What happens is old folks retire, 
have time on their hands, but can’t read books, watch TV or even recognize their grandchildren,” Lewin said. “It’s ter-rible.”
Lewin said UF researchers originally 
tested an injected drug on mice that was 
meant to ﬁ  ght Lou Gherig’s disease, also 
called amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In-stead, Lewin said they found the drug worked to ﬁ  ght macular degeneration, not ALS.
Lewin said he has been working on 
this research for more than four years, and it should be published in the next 
few months.
“Hopefully in about ﬁ  ve years, the 
oral drug will be on the market,” Lewin 
said.
- Sara Perlman
IT WAS HOSTED BY UF’S 
CHILDREN BEYOND OUR 
BORDERS.
By Katelyn Vogt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nathalie Perez planned to eat 
only a cup of white rice Monday.
But the UF sociology freshman’s 
fasting mission failed when she 
spotted Pakistani food.
“I got tempted,” the 18-year-old 
said.  
On Monday, Perez was one of 
about 40 students who challenged themselves to give up food or oth-er daily essentials to identify with children who suffer from food in-security. UF’s Children Beyond Our Borders hosted the fast, where 
participating students only ate one 
cup of rice and drank one bottle of water that day.  
Madeline Bieda, the club’s vice 
president, encouraged students to participate by offering bowls of pre-cooked rice to those passing through the Plaza of the Americas. She said the organization want-ed to show how hunger affects a child’s ability to succeed in school.
“If you can’t meet your ba-
sic needs, you’re not going to be able to meet those educational demands,” the 21-year-old UF psy-chology senior said.
This year, Bieda said the chapter 
localized the event and reminded students that hunger is a prevalent issue in their communities.
“We’re not only talking about 
hunger in other countries,” she said. “We’re talking about hunger here.”
Those who participated are in-
vited to reﬂ  ect on their experiences with hunger at the club’s potluck today at 6:30 p.m. in McCarty Hall A, Room 3194, Bieda said.
Perez said some children don’t 
have a choice to be hungry.
“For me, this is not normal,” 
she said. “For kids in other coun-tries, that’s very normal.”4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
UF club challenges students to only eat rice for a day 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Pasha Antonenko has an extra $4.5 million 
in grants for his research.
Antonenko, a UF education professor, has 
received four research grants from the Nation-al Science Foundation, a federal agency that 
funds projects supporting science, education, 
technology and mathematics research and education. A ﬁ  fth grant is pending ofﬁ  cial an-nouncement.
This is a new record for a College of Educa-
tion researcher, Antonenko said. But he didn’t apply for the grants with this goal in mind.
“I guess I’m proud, but on the other hand 
I wasn’t applying to these grants to set a new 
record,” he said. “I was applying for grants 
to get funding to do interesting, cutting-edge research.”
He said research is what he’s most excited 
about, and with about $4.5 million total from the grants, he can head ﬁ  ve projects that will advance education technology.
These projects include researching ways 
multimedia learning affects students and creating an app that allows students to learn 
about human physiology through simula-
tions, wrote Thomasenia Adams, the college’s associate dean for research and faculty devel-opment, in an email.
UF educational technology doctoral stu-
dent Jiahui Wang has been working with Antonenko for about a year. She said he is deserving of the grants because he’s hard-working.
“It is really nice working with him,” the 
25-year-old said. “As students, we’re not just doing data analysis or doing some work for him. Our ideas and our contribution is being respected.”
Antonenko said he hopes these grants will 
improve education as well as put UF’s College of Education on the map.
“You’re basically saying, ‘Here we are at 
the University of Florida,’” he said. “We do quality educational research.”A grand number of grants
By Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will laugh with one of the 
brains behind “Modern Family,” “Parks and Recreation” and “Master of None” on Friday night.
Comedian Joe Mande, who writes for TV 
sitcoms, will perform a stand-up set in the Re-itz Union Grand Ballroom at 9:30 p.m. during GatorNights on Friday.
Mande has also written the book “Look at 
This F------ Hipster” and appeared on “Conan” and “Late Night with Seth Meyers.” The Ga-torNights event is free for students, who can bring one guest. Mande will be paid $5,000 to perform, said Kaitlin Milligan, a director 
of speakers and comedians for Reitz Union 
Board Entertainment.
GatorNights is bringing Mande to help stu-
dents de-stress as part of this week’s theme, “Don’t lose your zen,” Milligan, 21, said.“The stand-up show (will help students) 
to kind of just have fun and relax before ex-ams,” the telecommunication production ju-nior said.
Michele Kuhn, a UF advertising sopho-
more, said she’s excited 
to see Mande because she thinks he’s an engaging en-tertainer. She’s seen Man-de once before at the Plaza Live in Orlando.
“He’s funny, has good 
energy, and it should be a 
really exciting night,” the 
19-year-old said.
UF telecommunication production senior 
Jose Cervantes is also a fan of Mande’s. He said the comedian is a funny person to follow on Twitter.
“I’m excited for (Mande’s stand-up) be-
cause I know he’s a good writer,” the 22-year-old said.‘Parks and Recreation’ 
writer to make UF laugh
through monthly events such 
as “Java with Jos,” “Nickel and Dime with Nick” and “Kick Back 
with Kevin.” 
Padron-Rasines said she 
has also worked to get funding for Norman Hall and the music 
building by working with stu-dents and student senators to lobby in Tallahassee.“The building shows criti-
cal signs of disrepair,” she said of Norman. “We want to ensure 
that efforts in Norman are con-
tinued through the school of mu-sic.”
In the future, SG hopes to 
bring a bi-weekly farmers market 
to campus, create online voting 
and  establish the Greater Gator Closet, where students can bor-row professional clothes.
Padron-Rasines concluded 
her speech by thanking the Stu-dent Body. 
“You guys are the reason that 
I’m here and why I get up in the 
morning,” she said.SG,  from pg1SG to lobby for funding
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Florida Gov. Rick Scott is at-
tempting to stop the relocation of 
Syrian refugees to Florida, citing se-curity concerns.
Scott sent a letter to Speaker of 
the House Paul Ryan, Senate Ma-jority Leader Mitch McConnell and Florida congressional members ask-ing Congress to prevent the Obama administration from using federal tax dollars to fund the relocation of 425 possible Syrian refugees to Flor-ida and other states.
In his letter, Scott wrote “several 
organizations” have requested Flor-ida’s Department of Children and Families to support Syrian refugees, given that it receives federal funding 
to house refugees.
“Following the 
terrorist attacks 
by ISIS in Paris...and the news that 
at least one of the terror attack sus-pects gained ac-cess to France by 
posing as a Syrian 
refugee, our state 
agency will not support the requests we have received,” Scott wrote, adding that Florida doesn’t have the authority to stop the federal govern-ment’s funding of the relocation.
He asked Congress “to take im-
mediate and aggressive action” to prevent the relocation of the Syrian refugees “to Florida, or anywhere 
in the United States, without an ex-
tensive evaluation of the risk these individuals may pose to our national security.”
Scott is one of several U.S. gov-
ernors attempting to block the relo-cation of Syrian refugees into their states, the Associated Press report-ed.
Jesse Fallen, president of UF Col-
lege Democrats, said he does not support Scott’s decision.
“These people were born into a 
different situation than us, and it’s a really tragic situation,” he said, referring to the refugees, “and we really need to provide humanitarian aid.”
 Gov. Scott: No Syrian refugeesMande
Scott
CAMPUS
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
T o raise awareness of the 793 million undernourished people 
around the world, UF’s Children Beyond Our Borders members (from left) Madeline Bieda, Gabriela Garcia, Manuela Gutierrez and Alexa Moore challenge students on Monday on the Plaza of the Americas to go a day consuming only a cup of rice and water. 
“You guys are the reason 
that I’m here and why I get 
up in the morning.”
Joselin Padron-Rasines
UF Student Body PresidentBy Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Leo Jaramillo spoke to his neighbor twice 
in six years.
He ﬁ  rst spoke with Patrick Koenigstein after 
Jaramillo and his two daughters moved next 
door in 2008. A woman living with Koenigstein 
at the time would yell at Jaramillo’s daughters, 
ages 9 and 12, for making noise on their tram-poline.
When Jaramillo asked Koenigstein about it, 
the burly and combative man just said to stay clear of his woman.
They later spoke for a second time. The 
woman moved out, and Koenigstein invited Jaramillo over. Jaramillo declined.
“He’s not really friendly,” Jaramillo said.Jaramillo hasn’t talked to his neighbor since 
then, and he probably never will.
On Aug. 27, Koenigstein, 56, drove to meet 
a 14-year-old girl he met online.
Instead, he found a GPD ofﬁ  cer and became 
another arrest in a ﬁ  ve-day undercover opera-tion.
More than two months have passed since 
Operation Panther, when authorities arrested 22 men they said tried to solicit sex with mi-nors. Since then, the men’s friends, family, neighbors and students have reﬂ  ected on the accusations.
Since his release from jail Aug. 27, with 
payment of a $75,000 bond, Koenigstein has painted his house and left. But even with a re-altor’s sign on the front lawn, Jaramillo and his 
roommate, Sherry Birchﬁ  eld, can’t forget the 
accusations against their former neighbor.
“There is a predator next door and that is 
the scariest thing in the whole wide world,” Birchﬁ  eld, 50, said.
      
About three months ago, Gainesville Police Detective John Madsen lead a task force.
Eleven state and federal 
detectives came together under the Internet Crimes Against Children task force for the ﬁ  rst undercover op-eration of its kind since July 
2013. They posed as minors 
and reached out to more than 2,000 people.
By Sept. 1, authorities 
arrested 22 men, including two UF students, a Santa Fe College student and a Santa Fe professor.
“I’m no longer sur-
prised,” Madsen said after a press conference Sept. 1. “Rarely, I get surprised any-more.”
As the operation came to a close, the court 
process was just beginning. As of press time, each of the 22 men who were arrested pleaded not guilty, and 14 are still behind bars.
Detectives started new projects after the 
conference and wished to stay away from the media, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-bias.
After about 100 online messages and a visit 
to 11 suspects’ homes, everyone declined to comment — with the exception of four people, including Jaramillo.
      
For Paulette and Wayne Grant, their son’s 
arrest brought back an all-too familiar feeling.
Courtney Grant, now 27, was released from 
jail in 2013 after serving more than eight years for manslaughter.
After Operation Panther, Paulette’s daugh-
ter called and said Courtney was in jail again.
They heard the charges against Courtney 
in court, and dark memories of his last arrest caught up with them.
Paulette said her son 
had a girlfriend at the time, and it’s not in her son’s character to abuse a child.
“When we got him out, 
he said, ‘Mom, when I was talking, the girl was 18,’” she said.
Wayne said his son 
works in the High Springs community and strived to improve his life after get-ting out of jail.
“He was more frustrat-
ed with himself because he disappointed us,” Wayne 
said. “We expect more from him than that.”
Courtney was released 
from the Alachua County Jail on Aug. 29 on a $100,000 bond.
      
More than 1,000 miles from Gainesville, 
Kevin Davila tried to make sense of new ac-cusations against an old friend. 
Davila had lived in a Queens homeless 
shelter with Raul Ellington, now 22, and was 
drawn to what he called Ellington’s motivated 
attitude.
“He was one of those kids who wanted to 
follow his dreams,” Davila said. “He was going to school and being a good kid.”
He said Ellington left the shelter when his 
mom found an apartment, and he would later meet a woman with two children. After having a third child, the couple moved to Gainesville.
On Aug. 29 at about 4:30 a.m., Gainesville 
Police booked Ellington into the Alachua 
County Jail on two charges for obscene com-
munication and one for a public order crime.
As of press time, the public order crime 
of using a two-way communication device to commit a felony was dropped. The court de-
nied Ellington’s request for a lower bond, and he remains in jail on a $125,000 bond.
As the trial continues, Davila ponders from 
his New York home whether Ellington is capa-ble of the charges that keep him behind bars.
“I’ve never seen Raul like that,” Davila said.
      
Manuela Osorio said she feels disgusted by 
the accusations against her former professor.
The Santa Fe political science student took 
a statistics class last Spring with Kevin Kasper, now a former Santa Fe math professor and sus-pect in Operation Panther. She said the class included underage dual-enrollment students.
Police said Kasper sent sexual emails and 
texts to an ofﬁ  cer he thought was the parent of a 14-year-old girl, and he arranged to have sex with his or her daughter.
As of press time, Kasper’s LinkedIn proﬁ  le 
said, “My primary objectives are to be the best husband, father, and professor possible.”
Osorio said Kasper seemed like a dedicated 
father when he talked about his family in class, making the accusations even more disturbing.
On Sept. 24, the court reduced Kasper’s 
bond from $25,000 for each of his three charg-es to $10,000 each for two charges, and he was released on his own recognizance for the third charge, according to court documents.
Under the conditions of his release, Kasper 
is not to contact minors other than his own children, use the Internet, travel outside the state or leave a speciﬁ  c Lake City home. He is 
monitored by a GPS device, according to the 
documents.
Osorio said she wasn’t directly affected by 
the accusations, but they made her question the future.
“It just makes me uncomfortable that no 
matter where we work or where we go to school, there can be someone to sexually ha-rass us,” she said.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Koenigstein
Kasper
Ellington
Grant
Two months later: Looking at the accused in covert operationThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnAccepting Syrian 
refugees is the 
safer option         
Following Friday’s attacks in Paris, the American jin-
goist machine has begun whirring to life. Monday’s headlines were dominated by the rhetoric of American 
governors declaring their state would not play host to 
displaced Syrians. As of press time, governors or state 
ofﬁ  cials of more than 20 states, including Florida and more traditionally liberal states, such as New Hampshire, have re-
leased statements saying as much.
Good for them. What our esteemed elected ofﬁ  cials have 
neglected to consider is the possibility that sewing legislative 
discord may have very well been a desired goal of the Islamic State group. As we noted in Monday’s editorial, terrorist at-
tacks, random or single-minded as they may seem, are often 
committed with speciﬁ  c political or social objectives in mind. If the perpetrators are lucky — and we use the word with the utmost reluctance — the effects of their actions will ripple far 
beyond the initial devastation they wrought.
It is no secret ISIS possesses a very loud and visible so-
cial media presence. A great deal of said presence has been 
directed toward recruiting Muslims from Western societies to leave their lives behind and ﬁ  ght for the ISIS caliphate in 
the Levant. Those who do leave feel disaffected and shunned 
by the societies from which they hail, ﬁ  nding ISIS’ promises of glory, power and a rent-free home to call their own too tantalizing to pass up.
If ISIS has successfully capitalized on the alienation of 
young Muslims to bolster their ranks, what possible good can come of ostracizing more? This is not to ignore the inher-ent problems of accepting an inﬂ  ux of immigrants, regard-less of race, creed or color: America already has a bevy of 
infrastructural problems, all of which require vast amounts 
of money and resources to rectify. As history has shown time and again, effectively integrating foreign individuals into a culture is not only difﬁ  cult but also more than likely cannot 
be done without incident.
Even though Florida Gov. Voldemort (that was a Rick 
Scott joke) and others do not possess the power to overrule 
the federal government on matters of immigration, their dec-larations speak to a debate that will dominate American dis-
course: Do we shun Syrian refugees and other Muslim com-
munities, or do we work to integrate them into American society? Neither option is a particularly “easy” one; it just so happens one requires patience and the other xenophobia. 
And for those citing the presence of a Syrian passport near 
a terrorist’s body in France as proof that America shouldn’t accept Syrians… we hate to break it to you, but odds are it’s fake.
When compared to the rest of the world, the number of 
Americans who have defected to ISIS is considerably smaller. The Syrian refugees at the center of this crisis have already voted with their feet and put the chaos and awfulness of ISIS-imposed rule behind them. Do American leaders really want 
to push them back in, in turn further jeopardizing the lives 
and safety of their constituents? Time will tell.
An update on Zadroga — Congress lets act expire
About two months ago, I wrote a column 
about the plight of 9/11 ﬁ  rst responders and the progress of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reautho-rization Act.
To quickly recap: The Zadroga Act of 2010 
authorized funding for health and compensa-tion programs that directly serviced about 33,000  9/11 ﬁ  rst responders across the country. Because of the toxic and dust-ridden conditions of Ground Zero, most of these responders incurred health problems — typically cancers or lung conditions — and des-perately needed health services.
So, reauthorizing Zadroga seems like a no brainer, right? 
Well, unfortunately our Congress of 2015 does not whole-heartedly agree.
For starters, Congress let the 2010 Zadroga Act expire   
Oct. 1, leaving the health and compensation programs to rely on their ﬁ  nancial reserves until they likely dissolve by Sep-tember or October of 2016. And, in spite of recent increases in the number of congressional co-sponsors, the Zadroga Reauthorization Act now faces considerable opposition from House of Representatives committee chairs.  
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Bob Good-
latte, R-Va., proposed starting another ﬁ  ve-year commitment with stifﬂ  y reduced funds and extending the compensation programs to victims of past acts of terror.
Call me crazy, but cutting funds to the programs and 
vaguely spreading the Zadroga Act’s thin resources seems a little misguided.
On the issue of timing, another ﬁ  ve-year commitment 
isn’t good enough. As the son of a cancer survivor, I can per-
sonally vouch that the No. 1 focus of a cancer victim should 
be recovery, not lobbying congressional representatives.
Former “Daily Show” host Jon Stewart articulated it best 
in mid-September on Capitol Hill when he said, “These ill-nesses that they have are not on ﬁ  ve-year cycles…these are permanent illnesses causing permanent damage.” We are dealing with what is, for many of these ﬁ  rst responders, a life-or-death situation.On the issue of funding, a permanent Zadroga 
bill would be expensive, sure. Over the next 10 years, it would cost about $8 to $11 billion for the compensation program and $3.5 billion for the health programs.
But let’s pause and think about other spend-
ing ventures. The total cost for the 2016 election, for example, will amount to an estimated $5 bil-lion. Moreover, according to a U.S. Department of Defense report released Oct. 31, the cost of U.S. operations in Iraq and Syria has totaled $5 billion 
since August 2014. The money is there; it’s just a matter of what we’re doing with it.
Perhaps the most disappointing aspect of this story is the 
Zadroga Reauthorization Act, sponsored by Sen. Kirsten Gil-librand, D-NY, and Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-NY, has, as of press time, 64 co-sponsors in the Senate and 246 in the House — more than enough support to pass if it were voted on now.
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan’s discretion ultimately 
stands in the way. The speaker of the house determines which bills move to the House ﬂ  oor for a vote, so the future progress of the Zadroga Reauthorization Act  — whether the 
original act or Rep. Goodlatte’s bill proposal makes the ﬂ  oor 
— is very much in the hands of Ryan.
An unfortunate truth, which Russell Berman of The At-
lantic highlighted in his column Friday, is that 9/11 is losing political potency. As the years go on, more people grow fur-ther detached from 9/11, and more aspects of our society re-fer to it as just another event in history — with the exception of a few #NeverForget tweets and History Channel specials on the anniversary.
I think it’s about time we gave our ﬁ  rst responders more 
than just a hashtag or moment of silence. If you feel so in-clined, please feel free to call Ryan’s ofﬁ  ce to voice your con-cerns over the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act and the plight of 9/11 ﬁ  rst responders.
Ryan’s ofﬁ  ce number is 202-225-3031.David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
The free world 
continues to weep for Paris 
this week.
With the ji-
hadist extremist Islamic 
State group claiming 
and verifying its re-
sponsibility for the at-tacks that occurred in Paris this past Friday, French President François Hollande has 
called for a more intense involve-
ment in vanquishing the self pro-claimed caliphate. The change in priority means sidelining France’s 
long advocacy for Syrian despot 
Bashar al-Assad’s removal in or-der to focus completely on chal-lenging ISIS. Hollande made good on that promise Sunday as the 
French Air Force launched its 
biggest air raids to date on the Is-lamic State’s capital, Raqqa, and destroyed a command center, 
munitions depot and recruitment 
center for jihadists.
In Washington, President 
Obama took to the White House Brieﬁ  ng Room to condemn the 
Paris attacks and offer sympathies 
with perspective, saying “This is a heartbreaking situation, and obviously those of us here in the 
United States know what it’s like. 
We’ve gone through these kinds of episodes ourselves.” In addi-tion to condemnation and condo-lences, the Obama administration 
saw to it that U.S. forces help co-
ordinate the air raids on Raqqa.  U.S. Secretary of Defense  Ashton Carter and the French Minister of 
Defense Jean-Yves Le Drain dis-
cussed plans over the phone Sat-urday and Sunday for the strikes.
Not wanting to feel left out 
of proactivity, millions of social 
networkers took to Facebook 
and displayed the French ﬂ  ag in their proﬁ  le pictures as a sign of solidarity with the French people. 
Others reacted sourly to the out-
pour of support and bemoaned the ISIS attacks in Beirut the day before and the Al-Shabaab at-tacks in Kenya this past April  re-
ceived little attention and grief in 
comparison.
The swift retaliatory action of 
the U.S. and France in their air 
campaigns and Facebookers in 
their denunciation of terrorism (some avoiding the mention of Islam altogether and others de-manding in presumed vain the 
voice of the religiously moderate 
to be heard) is not surprising.
And it’s not enough.Concerning foreign policy, an 
effective approach in combating ISIS cannot end at an increase in air strikes or the deployment of foot soldiers. An effective ap-proach needs to consider how 
these belligerents receive their 
funding and support. It requires increased scrutiny of the nations that direct-ly involve themselves 
in supporting ISIS’ do-
minion of the Levant. And while it should be made clear that the 
governments of Saudi 
Arabia, Turkey and Qatar have all ofﬁ  cially 
stated they don’t support ISIS, the actions of their government and 
prominent and powerful citizens 
say otherwise.
It has been known for more 
than a year now that the money 
buying weapons for ISIS has been 
coming from the Gulf States of Saudi Arabia and Qatar, often under the guise of humanitarian aid. Although the majority of the 
funds are from private ﬁ  nanciers, 
the governments do nothing to inhibit it. There is an undeniable amount of evidence that sup-
ports the claims of Turkey being 
involved in the support of ISIS. In July, it was revealed the ISIS Chief Financial Ofﬁ  cer Abu Sayy-af had direct contact with Turk-
ish ofﬁ  cials. Beyond that, Turkey 
serves as a gateway for those who wish to cross into Syria and join and those who smuggle arms into 
the war zone for ISIS.
Being that these countries 
have an interest in seeing a ca-
liphate like the one ISIS ﬁ  ghts for, it is not surprising to see ﬁ  nancial 
and material support from them.
What is surprising, however, 
is that in light of all this, the U.S. 
continues with status quo diplo-
matic relations with these coun-
tries, relations favorable to them and tacit in their approval of the proxy wars they fund to push a radical Sunni agenda.
Calling oppressive and un-
democratic theocracies that back militant jihadists — like ISIS — our allies is too great a hypocrisy 
to not address. It has gone on for 
too long.
Concerning the social net-
work, now is the time to be criti-cal of the oppressive regimes of 
our desperately religious “allies.” 
Allies who deny a vast majority of basic human rights to their people under the guise of culture 
and religion; allies with abhorrent 
human rights records who punish their citizens unﬂ  inchingly and barbarically if deemed to be in vi-olation of Sharia Law; allies who 
are greeted with smiles and ﬁ  rm 
handshakes by the leaders of the free world, only to turn around and stoke the ﬂ  ames of terrorism 
against them and their people.
It’s time to call a spade a 
spade. Regardless if that spade 
digs oil wells for us.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe 
College journalism junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.American allies need 
to be held accountableColumn
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgRegistering for Spring classes is a perpetually stressful experience. Just in case the mid-semester del-
uge of papers, exams and self-doubt 
wasn’t enough, you also have to ef-
fectively plan four months’ worth of classes (assuming you’ll make it through December 
alive). While this process used to make me 
feel as though I had some aspect of my life under control, it has recently become an unavoidable and highly involved burden.
This has stemmed directly from my status as an 
English major taking upper-division classes. For my ﬁ  rst two years at this lovely institution, I had no prob-lem creating a balanced, efﬁ  cient schedule. My big-gest concerns were focused on making the trek from 
Hume Hall to Matherly Hall and whether a 10:40 a.m. 
class was too early. Now, I long for the days when I had no problem claiming a spot in the class I wanted or, for that matter, any class at all.
Presently, my Spring schedule only has classes on 
Tuesday. It’s a Tuesday from hell, packed to the brim with triple-block English classes I have minimal inter-est in because every single course I plan to take ﬁ  lls up in a matter of hours. This makes registration a par-
ticularly frustrating process, consisting mainly of me 
scouring ISIS for the classes I planned to take, invok-ing some higher being in hopes they haven’t taken too many classes and miserably crossing one course after another off my highly optimistic list.
At ﬁ  rst, I thought this issue couldn’t have possibly 
been restricted to just English majors, but after talking to roommates, friends and anyone who will listen to me, I’m starting to think otherwise. I eventually men-
tioned my frustration in one of my English classes and 
unknowingly started a class-wide venting session. My poor professor served as the sole representative of the English department as all 30 of us voiced our disap-pointment regarding the ever-shrinking number of 
professors, classes and time slots.Multiple students claimed they were 
forced to take off a semester because 
there weren’t any spots left in higher-level 
courses. Others questioned how we were 
expected to take multiple English courses a semester when they were all held at the same time. Our professor nodded her head 
in understanding and told us the university 
wasn’t hiring more professors or creating more classes because there wasn’t enough student demand. What they supposedly 
hadn’t considered was that this presented an academ-
ic Catch-22 (literary reference intended), as the lack of 
options discourages students from becoming English majors in the ﬁ  rst place.
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit English majors are a dy-
ing breed. In a world driven by technological and capitalist advances, very few opt to enter a ﬁ  eld char-acterized by constant reading and unpredictable job prospects. An English degree just doesn’t have the sex appeal it had in, I don’t know, the early 20th cen-
tury. I also understand UF is one of the top research 
universities in the country with an increasing focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics majors.
We’re not asking for much. Maybe a couple extra 
classes, some new professors, a few more seats and evenly distributed time slots. While I’d like to throw in moving our classes out of the windowless behe-moth that is Turlington Hall, I realize that may be 
pushing it. Perhaps the students are partially at fault 
as well, as we’re much more likely to whine to each other instead of to administration. However, we need to take steps to change that. I understand the English 
department isn’t a priority, but without some sort of 
immediate change, UF is going to effectively drive it into the ground.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.Perils of registration, death of English programColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
STANDING STRONGLEFT:
“World Peace” was written in 
French among dozens of senti-ments on the provided banner. It allowed students to express their condolences and encour-agement in light of the recent terrorist attacks in Paris and Beirut.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
About 100 people hold candles at a vigil Monday for the vic-tims of the terrorist attacks in Beirut and Paris that occurred Thursday and Friday, respec-tively. Excerpts from the na-tional anthems of France and Lebanon were read as they stood to show solidarity with the approximately 172 people killed.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
 
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Dave Kratzer, UF’s vice president for student affairs, speaks during the vigil. Hopefully one day people will be able to explain the horrific events that occurred, he said.LEFT:
Timothee Deschamps, a UF political science exchange student from France, and UF business administration soph-omore Heather Ryan, both 19, write notes of support on a solidarity banner during the vigil for Paris and Beirut on Turlington Plaza on Monday. Deschamps ended his mes-sage with “Go liberty, go Paris, go life, ” in French.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
SANTA FE
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Electronic cigarette usage could 
soon be restricted on Santa Fe Col-
lege’s campus.
The Career Service Council 
will discuss and vote on a pro-
posed amendment during a meet-
ing Wednesday that would place e-cigarettes under existing college tobacco rules, said Council Chair-woman Nina Trombi. The amend-ment would restrict e-cigarette us-age to smoking pits on the edges of campus.
The discussion follows approv-
al from the Faculty Senate during its meeting Oct. 6, according to minutes, and approval from the Student Senate during its meeting Nov. 4.
Under current rules, Santa Fe 
police can issue citations to stu-dents who smoke on campus out-side the pits, Chief Ed Book said. 
The amendment would extend 
those rules to e-cigarettes.
Even if the council votes to 
amend the rules, Santa Fe’s board of trustees will still have to make the final approval, Trombi added, which may not come until January.  
“There’s been concern that 
students will blatantly be smok-
ing them in the classroom, which 
is, you know, disrespectful,” said Trombi, adding she is one of sev-eral members of the council who support the amendment. “Even if we were to find out that there’s ab-solutely no health issues associated with the vapor, secondhand, it’s still kind of rude, you know, and 
it’s distracting.”
However, Joshua Daigle is one 
Santa Fe student who isn’t keen on 
the amendment.
“If they can offer the evidence 
that the smoke had any of the dan-gerous or stinky effects of normal cigarettes, then I would approve it,” the 28-year-old Santa Fe his-
tory senior said as he finished a 
cigarette at one of the smoke pits.
Sitting across from Daigle, Gra-
ham Moore jumped in.
The 25-year-old Santa Fe politi-
cal science freshman said he’s been using e-cigarettes to quit smoking. However, he said he understands not allowing people to smoke e-
cigarettes indoors in places like 
bathrooms.
“The problem is we wouldn’t 
even be having this discussion about it if people hadn’t been pricks,” Moore said, referring to people who smoke e-cigarettes in-doors.
“I think that for people that are 
trying to use it to quit smoking, (the amendment) could be detri-mental,” he added.Santa Fe 
to discuss 
limiting 
e-cigarettes
By Jenna Kline
Alligator Contributing Writer
This week, UF students will celebrate the 
transgender community while remembering 
those who lost their lives due to hate crimes.
UF’s Pride Student Union is hosting “Trans 
Week: Trans in Motion” until Friday, which is Transgender Day of Remembrance. The week of activities is aimed at starting a discussion 
about the diversity of the struggles the trans 
community is going through, said Damian Gonzalez, co-president of Pride Student Union.
“We wanted to make sure there was a full 
week of events to talk about the issues facing 
trans people, not just here at UF but on a na-
tional level,” the UF journalism and political science senior said. “They are the most mar-ginalized and disenfranchised members in our 
community.”
Gonzalez, 21, said trans issues aren’t get-ting the attention they deserve. Instead, the 
public is focusing on other LGBTQ+ topics, 
like marriage equality.
This week’s theme is “Trans in Motion,” 
said Carolyna Guillen, internal vice president 
of Pride Student Union.
“The trans community is fluid,” the 20-year-
old UF microbiology and cell science junior said. “It’s constantly changing and evolving.”
On Thursday, Pride Student Union will hold 
a vigil at UF Levin of Law College to remember 
those who lost their lives to trans violence. 
On Friday, the group will hold interactive 
activities on the Plaza of the Americas.
Eli Mender, 24, said he is helping plan the 
week’s events.
“It’s like remembering the dead and cel-
ebrating the living,” the LGBT Affairs intern 
and second-year UF sociology graduate stu-dent said.UF celebrates, remembers trans communityDrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
KRISHNA LUNCH 
Lisa Athearn, a 42-year-old UF public speaking professor, gets Krishna Lunch on the Plaza of the 
Americas on Monday. “I ate Krishna when I was a student here 13 years ago, ” she said. “It’s the best $3.50 I spent. ”
HE WAS ARRESTED FOR 
DRUNK DRIVING.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
fice deputies arrested a Newberry 
man Sunday night after deputies 
said he drove drunk with chil-
dren in the car and then offered a bribe for his release.
At about 7:35 p.m. Sunday, 
Justin T. Hoyt, 18, asked a wom-an for a cigarette in the Kmart parking lot located at 900 NW 76th Blvd., according to a police report.The woman called for help 
after she noticed Hoyt, who 
seemed intoxicated, step into his 
car and drive 
around the parking lot, ac-
cording to the 
report.
When dep-
uties arrived, 
they watched 
Hoyt run over 
a curb and drive the wrong 
way in the parking lot. Deputies stopped Hoyt and noticed his sis-
ter and two nieces — ages 2, 4 
and 8 — inside the car, according to the report.
Hoyt performed poorly on a field sobriety test and later threatened a deputy on the way 
to jail. At one point, he asked 
the deputy to take off his badge and fight before stating “all cops were going to die,” according to 
the report.
At the jail, Hoyt registered 
.173 and .166 on a breath test. 
He also offered the deputy $2,000 to release him, according to the 
report.
Police arrested Hoyt on charg-
es of DUI and bribery along with 
three charges of child neglect. 
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $10,000 bond.Man tries to bribe deputy
Hoyt
A UF PROFESSOR WILL 
BE INTERVIEWED.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
C-SPAN, a channel that broad-
casts politics live, will appear at 
UF today as part of its first tour of Florida universities. 
Its commentators will interview 
UF cybersecurity professor Mark Tehranipoor for the “Washington Journal” morning show before opening its bus to students from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the Reitz Union North Lawn.
C-SPAN will interview one pro-
fessor on a specific topic at each school, said Sara Zou, a marketing 
representative for C-SPAN. Tehra-
nipoor will discuss cybersecurity. 
Cybersecurity is the measures 
taken to protect a computer or Internet-connected device against unauthorized access or attack, according to the National Initia-tive for Cybersecurity Careers and Studies.
UF is the second stop on the 
tour, Zou said. The bus visited Florida State University on Mon-day.
“This time of year, we’re al-
ways heading toward Florida,” she said.
Alex Bernier, a UF law sopho-
more, said he’ll be tuning in to 
watch Tehranipoor’s interview. 
He said more people should care about Internet safety because it af-fects everyone.
“I think right now there are 
about three times as many Inter-net-connected devices as there are (people) on the planet,” the 22-year-old said.C-SPAN 
bus visits UF campus
The theme is “Trans in Motion”FILM:
“Still Black: A Portrait of Black Transmen”
Today, 7 p.m., Ustler Hall
WORKSHOP:
Trans Mental HealthWednesday, 7:30 p.m., Little Hall, Room 219
VIGIL: 
Transgender Day of RemembranceThursday, 7:30 p.m., Law School,Holland, Room 285B 
REMEMBRANCE: 
Transgender Day of RemembranceFriday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Plaza of the AmericasTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
11-18-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatest
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Attention Advertisers
Attention Advertisers
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will not publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.  
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will not publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.  
Please be aware of the following early deadlines
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 30
Tuesday, Dec. 1DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 23 4p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 24 4p.m.Please be aware of the following early deadlines
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 30
Tuesday, Dec. 1DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 23 4p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 24 4p.m.
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482Classified Advertising
373-3463
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482Classified Advertising
373-3463
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New 
Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    11-20-15-7-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
IT/Customer Service Rep for DentalSoftware Company. M-F 8-5Competitive Pay and Benefits.Computer skills is a must.Send Resumè: dave@floridaprobe.com11-20-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Church seeking pianist/worship leader for Sunday morning traditional evangelical (hymn-based) service.Email interest tofirstnaz5020@cfcoxmail.com.    11-20-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
FOR SALE
2 FL vs FSU FOOTBALL TIX
Sec 63, Row 62, Seats 10 & 11.
Call 352-871-7801    11-19-3-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Event Notices 14 Help Wanted 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 16 Health ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Becky Burleigh and 
the Florida soccer team is finding a way to control and win close games in the NCAA T ournament. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators garner SEC honors
After hitting a combined .428 with just four attack errors, junior right side 
hitter Alex Holston was named the Southeastern Conference Player of the Week on Monday while senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino was named the Setter of the Week. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports.FLORIDA DEFEATED 
NORTH CAROLINA A&T BY 
50 POINTS. 
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
In Florida’s home-opener, 
North Carolina A&T didn’t seem to 
have a chance.
Behind a suffocating defense 
and a balanced scoring offense, 
the Gators defeated the Aggies 
104-54 in the O’Connell Center in 
Mike White’s regular season home debut. It was the highest non-exhi-bition offensive output since Flor-ida scored 107 points on Nov. 25, 2011, in a win over Jacksonville.
The Gators made sure to set the 
tone from the opening tip as the 
team came out of the gate with in-
tensity.
Florida jumped out to a 13-2 
lead, with A&T’s only points com-
ing off of a goaltend by John Eg-
bunu, and never took the foot off 
the pedal.
“I thought we came out with 
a lot of energy, and I thought 
throughout the 40 minutes we 
played very, very unselfishly, es-pecially with the big lead in the second half,” White said. “It was a 
good night for us, we got a little bit better tonight in some areas.”
In Friday’s season opener 
against Navy, the Gators scored just 59 points and consistently 
struggled with shooting the ball. 
But by halftime on Monday 
night, Florida had already scored 
52 points. 
“It just makes the game a lot 
more fun and a lot easier for you offensively, of course, when the ball’s traveling and when you 
shoot it well from three,” White 
said.
Redshirt junior DeVon Walker 
and sophomore forward Devin 
Robinson led the way for the UF dominates in home opener
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF men's basketball coach Mike White looks on during Florida's 104-54 win against North Carolina A&T on Monday in the O'Connell Center. 
MEN'S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
It’s the story of two childhood 
best friends and the Canadian golf 
coach that left Las Vegas to bring them together. 
When Sam Horsfield and Kyler 
Tate were competing against each other at just 8 years old, the two would’ve never anticipated that one day they’d be playing col-lege golf togeth-er at UF.
As fate 
would have it, 
the two now 
find themselves playing under second-year UF coach JC Deacon as freshmen on the men’s golf team.
The two have been quick to 
make an impact. Horsfield started all five Fall tournaments in his first semester and had three top-five finishes. Tate played in four tournaments and twice placed in 
the top 20.  
But what’s more interesting 
than why they’re at UF is how 
they got there. 
“I think it was in a practice 
round at PGA national,” Horsfield said. “We were like 8 or 9.
“His dad asked my dad if we 
could practice together on the 
weekends … and then we started 
playing quite a bit of golf.”
Tate was living near Gainesville 
in Keystone Heights at the time, and he recalls making the trips with his dad to meet up with Sam. 
“We would drive down to 
where Sam lives in Davenport — about 2 hours — on the weekends that we could, and we’d go prac-
tice with him,” Tate said. “And 
then I became pretty good buddies with him.”
The two developed a deep 
friendship. It wasn’t just about golf, either. The two would play basketball and football, and even ski together as they grew up off the course. 
Tate would eventually move to 
Winter Garden — much closer to Davenport. 
And before they knew it, the two were old enough to drive to each other’s 
courses. 
Soon, Hors-
field had become one of the most 
sought-after golf recruits in the nation. Winning the state champi-onship for his 3A high school and a victory in the 2013 Florida State Amateur made him the No. 2 re-cruit in the class of 2015, accord-ing to Golfweek.com.  
Horsfield committed to UF in 
March of 2014, ready to play un-
der revered coach Buddy Alexan-
der, who had led the Gators to two national championships in 1993 and 2001. But everything changed on April 22, 2014, when the Gator-zone headline read: “Gators Golf Coach Buddy Alexander to Retire at End of Season, Capping 27-Year Run.”
Two months later, JC Deacon, 
University of Las Vegas alum and former assistant coach, was named head coach. Horsfield stuck with UF, and, in doing so, Florida freshmen had 
link before the links 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
When a team falls on tough times, some-
times all it takes to get things back on track 
is a signature win.
That’s exactly what the Gators got on 
Monday night in the O’Connell Center when 
they took down No. 6 Florida State in UF’s home opener, 82-72. 
“We beat a very, very good team,” coach 
Amanda Butler said after the game. 
“For Florida State to be number (six) in 
the country, and to have so many different 
people step up and just give us whatever we needed, I’m just really, really proud of the overall team effort.”
UF’s play was up and down throughout 
the match as the Gators struggled to find a consistent rhythm early in the game. 
Florida looked good at the get-go — sort 
of — as it won the opening tip and proceed-ed to take it down the court and score on a bucket from junior forward Ronni Williams. 
Williams lead the Gators with 21 points 
and two blocks, one of which came at a piv-otal moment in the game.The rest of the first quarter, however 
was all FSU. Florida had some chances but 
couldn’t capitalize, shooting only 4-of-15 
from the field in the opening period. At the end of one, the Seminoles had doubled Flor-ida’s score and led 18-9. 
The second quarter wasn’t all-Florida by 
any means, but the Gators did manage to seize the momentum for a good chunk of it. 
FSU came out firing with two buckets 
right away as play resumed, forcing UF 
coach Amanda Butler to call a timeout. What UF women's basketball rebounds to shock No. 6 FSUSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15
SEE WHOOPS,  PAGE 15Ronni Williams had 21 points
“W e beat a very, very good team.” 
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coachHorsfield
 Tate
14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
Gators with 15 points apiece. 
As a team, Florida (2-0) shot 54 
percent from the field and 52 per-
cent from beyond the arc.
Eight Gators contributed a three 
pointer and six players scored in 
double digits as Florida cruised in 
the second half. 
It was the first time since Dec. 
12, 2014 that Florida has had at 
least five scorers post double fig-ures.
“I think everybody’s sharing 
the ball more, I don’t think any-body has their own agendas,” said Francis-Ramirez, who added 10 points. “I think we’re playing self-
less, we’re playing unselfish bas-
ketball. ... We try to get the best 
shot every possession.”
On the other end of the floor, 
UF’s defense applied intense pres-
sure and smothered the Aggies (0-
2) all night.
Florida forced 16 turnovers, 
had eight steals and blocked seven 
shots, holding North Carolina A&T 
to 33 percent shooting from the 
field.
The up-tempo style of play fol-
lowed by full-court pressure is 
something that White has preached 
since stepping foot in Gainesville 
and something the players have 
bought into. 
The team knows playing at a 
fast pace may come with a high number of turnovers, but that shooting at a high percentage can balance it out.
“We move the ball, play togeth-
er, push the ball, get out of transi-tion. That’s how we want to play,” Finney-Smith said. “We just made shots. At Navy we took the same shots, but we were just 3 for 19. Tonight, we just made shots.”
In its first game, Florida’s most 
glaring problems were free throw shooting (10-19) and turnovers (19). On Monday, the Gators im-proved in both categories, shoot-
ing 65 percent from the charity 
stripe and limiting their turnovers 
to 13.
White said after the game that 
the final score wasn’t as important 
to him as the team’s effort and in-
tensity level. The Gators have now 
won 25 straight home openers, and Monday’s was a stepping stone to what Florida hopes to accomplish 
over the rest of the season.
“We played at a faster pace, 
and of course when you’re mak-
ing better decisions and you’re turnovers go down, it helps you as 
well,” White said.
Florida has several practices to 
prepare for its next opponent, Saint 
Joseph’s, on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. at the Mohegan Sun Resort and Ca-
sino in Uncasville, Connecticut. 
The game is the first in a week-
end back-to-back that is part of the 
Basketball Hall of Fame Tip-Off Tournament. Depending on the 
outcome of the games, Florida will 
play either Purdue or Old Domin-
ion on Sunday. HOOPS,  from pg13The Gators had six players score at least 10 points in the win
ABOVE:
Forward Devin Robinson shoots a three-pointer during the second half. The sophomore made two of his five shots from beyond the arc and the Gators made 51.7-percent of their three-point attempts in the win.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
FAR LEFT:
DeVon Walker jumps for a layup during the second half. The red-shirt junior swingman scored a team-high-tying 15 points on 6-of-8 shooting.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
LEFT:
Guard Brandone Francis-Ramirez dunks during the first half. The redshirt freshman scored 10 points on 4-of-9 shooting against North Carolina A&T.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
she said to her team was inaudible, 
but whatever it was, it worked. 
Florida proceeded to go on a 
14-4 run and made it a one-posses-sion game at 23-26. 
That was thanks in large part to 
junior transfer Simone Westbrook, who hit two long-range threes in the clutch.
However, FSU got right back 
in it after that and built back what they had lost.
At the half, Florida trailed by 
nine once again, this time at 38-29. 
After losing the first half by a 
single-digit margin, Florida flat-out dominated the second half. 
Butler credits her team’s resil-
ience for the way it performed in the second half as opposed to any kind of halftime speech.
“They wanted it for each other,” 
she said. 
“In the first half, we were being way too reactive and I think them as a group, regardless of the things 
that us coaches were sharing with 
them, just really wanted to play with a lot more pride in the things that we had worked on leading up to this.”
UF started things off by going 
on an 8-0 run. Led by the play of Williams, Florida trimmed the defi-cit to six and headed to the fourth 
quarter down 57-51.
The beginning of the fourth was 
all UF again, and the Gators took 
the lead at 60-59 with just over eight minutes to go.
They didn’t look back as they 
outscored the Seminoles 31-15 in the fourth quarter and pulled off what could be considered Butler’s 
biggest win as head coach at Flor-
ida.
In addition to Williams and her 
21 points, Westbrook and fresh-man Eleanna Christinaki also reached double figures with 14 and 13 points, respectively. The play of those three down 
the stretch cannot be overstated 
enough, and the points don’t even 
tell the whole story.
A big piece of that story is the 
resilience shown by the three of them — and by the team in gen-eral — both against FSU and even in the loss on Friday at Temple. It’s something that they didn’t have last year and it’s something that 
they’re looking to build on this 
year.
“That’s one of the things that 
we really took away from Temple is the type of fighters that we are,” Butler said. 
“I think they took a lot of that 
energy from that fourth quarter performance (at Temple) into to-
night.”
Florida will have a few days to 
recover from the monumental vic-
tory, as the next time it gets to test its resilience will be on Saturday at 4 p.m. against Kennesaw State in the O’Connell Center.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
WHOOPS,  from pg13UF outscored FSU 31-15 in fourh quar ter
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The UF's women's basketball team celebrates after defeating No. 6 Florida State 82-72 on Monday 
in the O'Connell Center. 
he also saw an opportunity to help out his 
friend.
You see, while all of this was going on, 
Tate was still searching for where he’d be go-ing to college. He hadn’t played in the same 
top tournaments Horsfield had played in, and 
that reflected in the interest college golf pro-grams showed in him.
“When Sam committed to Florida, I 
might’ve had one offer,” Tate said. 
“If you would’ve asked me when I was a 
sophomore if I would’ve played for the Uni-versity of Florida, I would’ve told you there’s a zero percent chance.”
Schools like South Florida and West Point 
showed interest in recruiting Tate for golf, but Tate waited for greener pastures. And that’s where Kyler’s buddy Sam came in. 
Sam recommended that Deacon take a peek at Tate.
Coming from the west coast, Deacon 
didn’t know much about junior golfers on the other side of the country, and he said that he didn’t bother recruiting players from Florida. 
“I met with Sam for the first time … and 
when we got done talking about him and our future here at UF, he said, ‘You need to take a look at my buddy Kyler Tate. He’s a pretty good player,’” Deacon recalled from the first time Sam mentioned Kyler. 
And soon enough, Deacon took Sam up on 
his offer and took a gamble on Kyler. 
Tate had just won a tournament that sum-
mer when Deacon took the trip to Tampa to watch him in a subsequent boys’ junior com-petition. 
“I remember the first time I ever saw him 
swing,” Deacon said. “I hadn’t spoken to him, but he kind of had that look about him, that confident look. ... (He) looked like an athlete, and sure enough, he was just a perfect fit for where we’re going.”
“You could just see the way he was walk-
ing around on the golf course, how he con-ducted himself. He was a confident kid.”
Tate had a great summer and, with the 
help of his friend Sam, was actively sought out by Deacon and his staff. Tate verbally committed to UF in August of 2014, right be-fore the start of his senior year. 
“He’ll probably be grateful and thankful 
for what Sam did for him for the rest of his life,” Deacon said. 
“I mean, I really don’t know if I would’ve 
recruited him harder or less, but, you know, 
Sam really was the reason that Kyler was 
brought up. And I know Kyler understands that and appreciates it.”
The two are so close that it seems no 
thanks are necessary. And from the way Dea-con describes it, there’s a possibility the two are only together so they can beat down on each other. “You can always tell best friends when 
they don’t take anything seriously that each other say, Deacon said. “And those two … they really give each other a hard time and push each other.”
While they may be adversaries in qualify-
ing rounds, the two know how lucky they are to carry on their golf careers together. When asked if he would’ve ever imagined playing college golf with his best friend, Horsfield said he is still in disbelief. 
“Boy, I don’t know if I would’ve believed 
you. We’ve both come so far as people and golfers,” he said. 
“I think that’s pretty cool that I can play 
college golf with one of my best friends.”
When it’s all said and done, Sam and Kyler 
will always be friends first and golfers second. 
And whether they’re hitting drives or ex-
changing high-fives, the two will hold on to the memories they make, both in school and golf, over the course of their lives.
GOLF,  from pg13Horsfield and Tate were intregal parts in UF 's Fall season line upSOCCER
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Saturday night’s NCAA first-
round matchup for the No. 2 re-gional seed Florida soccer team — a 1-0 victory over Western Michigan — was anything but a 
cakewalk. 
It would seem that the first 
round of a large-scale tournament 
like the NCAAs would offer the higher seeds a matchup to warm them up for the deeper rounds — a tune-up game. 
But that isn’t the case in the 
NCAA Women’s Soccer Tourna-
ment. 
The fleeting nature of the game 
of soccer can take some credit for 
this.
Goals are hard to come by — 
only 39 of the 328 teams in Divi-sion I average at least two goals per game — and matches are often won based on who controls the 
possession game.
And because of the rarity of 
goals, that means less of a chance 
of a blowout, even in the first round of the 64-team tournament.
In last season’s NCAA tourna-
ment, despite a 3-0 win in the first round over Mercer, Florida had a one-goal lead going into the final 
10 minutes of the match. It needed 
82nd- and 90th-minute goals by Sa-vannah Jordan to pull ahead and secure the win.
But Mercer had just as much a 
chance to score two goals in that time, and had a few sequences went differently, the Gators might have been looking at their second 
first round exit of the year.
In last season’s Southeastern 
Conference Tournament, Tennes-
see knocked out No. 2-seeded Flor-ida in penalty kicks.For Florida coach Becky Bur-
leigh, the win Saturday night was 
the best possible outcome for her 
team, even though the match didn’t offer many advantages for either side.
The closeness the game against 
the Broncos pre-sented showed the Gators that the tournament 
is no walk in the 
park.
Soccer is 
one of the only games that a team can be 
completely dominated, but one or two moments could be the differ-ence between a win, a loss or a 
draw, and stakes of tournament-
style play intensifies each and ev-ery pass or shot or substitution.
“You can see how close you 
can come to not moving on and moving on,” Burleigh said.
“The margin of victory is slim.”For Friday night’s second 
round, Florida is partnered up with 
a William & Mary team that got to 
Gainesville via an overtime victory against UCF in Orlando.
The Tribe also has one of the 
NCAA’s longest tenured coaches in John Daly, who has headed the team since 1987.
“He’s really, really savvy,” Bur-
leigh said. “He’s a smart guy, he’s 
gonna prepare the team very well.”
Florida isn’t worried about 
what the other side can bring to 
the table.
Burleigh knows that, as the sea-
son progresses, her team still has more to prove, and that’s about all she can try to control.
“Our best soccer,” Burleigh 
said, crediting Jordan’s words after Friday night’s game. “is still ahead of us.”Gators controlling 
close games in NCAA Tournament play
Burleigh
A few days after the Gators 
defeated Southeastern Conference opponent 
Vanderbilt and locked up 
the SEC East, ﬁ  rst-year 
Florida coach Jim McElwain ad-dressed the team about the weeks 
that were to come.
“With a show of hands, who 
thought we’d be here?” McElwain 
asked the team.
It was a simple question.
The response spoke volumes.
“Not too many guys showed 
their hands,” defensive end Jor-dan Sherit recalled after the 
Gators’ 24-14 win against South 
Carolina on Saturday.
In just a year’s time, McElwain 
has turned the Florida football program into a national title con-
tender.
What was supposed to be a re-
building year instead turned into 
one of increasing expectations — 
both internally and externally.
Some of the wins haven’t 
been pretty (see: East Carolina, 
Vanderbilt, Tennessee), but when the time comes to make a play, the Gators are right in the thick of 
the competition.
“Our guys, they ﬁ  nd something 
new every single day,” McElwain 
said. “That’s what’s really cool about it.”
And with two weeks left be-
fore the SEC Championship game, McElwain and the Gators don’t plan to slow down.
For the ﬁ  rst time in three 
years, Florida isn’t playing for pride down the stretch.
If the Gators win their next 
three games — home contests 
against Florida Atlantic and 
Florida State followed by a game against the SEC West champion in Atlanta — they’ll be a lock for 
the College Football Playoff, a 
chance to win the program’s ﬁ  rst national title since the Tebow Era ended.
It’s an end goal most of Flor-
ida’s players didn’t expect to be possible heading into the year.But McElwain has helped them 
see the light. 
He’s shown them that hard 
work pays off in the long run.
“You believe what he’s teach-
ing,” said Jake McGee, who on Monday was named a semiﬁ  nalist 
for the John Mackey Award, giv-
en annually to the best tight end in college football.
But believing is just the ﬁ  rst 
half of the battle.
The rest is execution.And so far, the Gators have 
held their own.
The defense is ranked ﬁ  fth na-
tionally, giving up an average of just 280 yards per game.
The offense is dominating the 
time of possession, holding the 
ball for an average of 33:19 per 
game, which ranks second in the SEC only to Arkansas and ninth in the country.
Florida is converting 42.8 per-
cent of its third- and fourth-down attempts while holding opponents to just a 33.7-percent efﬁ  ciency rate, moving chains while oppo-
nents are stopped in their tracks.
How well the Gators execute in 
their next three games will speak 
volumes about this team.
“We’re seeing the fruits of our 
labor and we’ve just got to keep going,” Sherit said. 
“We have a few more we’ve 
got to knock out.”ALEX MCCALISTER AND JORDAN 
SHERIT WILL NOT PLAY AGAINST 
FLORIDA ATLANTIC.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack
Florida’s defensive line will have some 
holes to ﬁ  ll against Florida Atlantic.
Coming off of a dominant performance 
against South Carolina in which the unit gave 
up just 21 yards rushing, the Gators will be 
without three signiﬁ  cant contributors on Sat-
urday due to injuries.
Redshirt junior Alex McCalister (foot), red-
shirt sophomore Jordan Sherit (hamstring) and junior Joey Ivie (leg) will all miss the con-test against the Owls, depleting a pass rush that ranks second in the Southeastern Confer-ence in sacks.
McCalister, who was hurt in a collision 
with teammate Jarrad Davis in the ﬁ  rst quar-ter against the Gamecocks, leads the Gators with 6.5 sacks this season.
Sherit, who missed the ﬁ  rst half of Satur-
day’s game due to the carryover of a targeting suspension from the week before, aggravat-ed a nagging injury to his hamstring against South Carolina. He has 19 tackles and 1.5 sacks on the season.
Ivie ranks third on the team with 3.5 sacks, 
despite the fact that he has missed three of the last four games with his leg injury.
All three players’ absences opens the door 
for players such as freshman CeCe Jefferson and redshirt freshman Justus Reed to step up, along with others.
McElwain said he has no doubts that guys 
will ﬁ  ll the gaps, just as they did Saturday.
“Khairi Clark played a bunch more, Taven 
Bryan did a heck of a job in gap responsibility and integrity and trust in the guy next to him, 
Justus Reed did a heck of a job coming in,” 
McElwain said. 
“Somebody will show up and somebody 
will play and they will do it at a high level with the responsibility and the attention to detail it takes to be successful.”
McGee named Mackey Award 
Semiﬁ  nalist:
Tight end Jake McGee is making the most 
of his one healthy season at Florida.
The redshirt senior was named a semiﬁ  -
nalist for the John Mackey Award, given to the top tight end in college football.
McGee, who transferred from Virginia two 
years ago and was granted an extra year of eligibility after sitting out all of last year with a broken leg, has 31 receptions, 268 receiving yards and is tied for the team’s most touch-down receptions with three this season.
Along with his own performance on the 
ﬁ  eld, the redshirt senior is helping lead the rest of the tight end group.
“He does a great job out there with that 
tight end crew,” running back Kelvin Taylor said. “He’s the leader and he does a wonder-ful job just getting those players to work hard and just pushing them everyday in practice.”
UF-FSU game time announced:
Florida’s regular season ﬁ  nale will be — 
you guessed it — a night game.After three-straight noon kickoffs, the No. 
11 Gators will be back in primetime when they host the No. 16 Florida State Seminoles at 7:30 on Nov. 28.
The game will be televised on ESPN.Before this recent stretch of noon games, 
Florida started the season with six night games in the ﬁ  rst seven weeks.
Judging by the way McElwain has enjoyed the early kickoffs from the last few weeks, 
there’s a good chance he’s selﬁ  shly disap-
pointed to be starting so late.
“I’ve got to be honest with you, to the 
noon tilt,” McElwain said. 
“I like that. When you get home at 7 
o’clock after you do everything, those three to four hours that you have seem like two days. It’s awesome.”16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF defensive lineman Alex McCalister participates in warmups prior to Florida’s 24-
14 win against South Carolina on Saturday in Columbia, South Carolina. 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain points to the crowd during Gator Walk prior to Florida’s 24-14 win against South Carolina on Saturday in Columbia, South Carolina. 
Injury bug bites Florida’s defensive line heading into FAU
AIR JORDAN
McElwain has the Gators believing in themselves as season winds down
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126