We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 162 THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
Sports Column: Brandon Powell 
has potential to be great
Sophomore is transitioning to wide receiver 
this season, pg 17.
Research Roundup
Mouthguards, lobsters and grape seeds, pg 8.
‘Go Set a Watchman’ full of surprises
Read the review, pg 12.We’ll keep you posted
For updates on all things UF and Gainesville, go to alligator.org.
By Ansley Pentz 
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
A dot 3 billion miles away is starting to be-
come clearer with the ﬁ  rst high-resolution im-
ages of a has-been planet.
Exploring Pluto has been out of reach. That 
is, until now. 
“All of our lives, Pluto has been a tiny dot, 
and now it’s a real world we can explore,” said Charles Telesco, the UF Department of Astron-omy chair.
Almost a decade ago, NASA sent New Ho-
rizons shuttling through space with the ashes 
of its discoverer, Clyde Tombaugh. The craft’s 
purpose is to see what Pluto is like by exam-ining its composition, color, temperature, ge-ography and “what kinds of trials and tribula-tions” it has had to go through, Telesco said.
Examining Pluto and its moons is important 
because they show us what the solar system was like long ago, he said.  
Although studying far-away places like Plu-
to may seem trivial, Telesco said every piece of research helps solve part of a greater puzzle — how the solar system came to be.  
By learning about Pluto and its formation, 
we are able to learn about our Earth and how our actions affect it. This could include under-standing complex systems like global warm-ing, Telesco said.
But New Horizons isn’t just important for 
its research, said 22-year-old Sarik Jeram. It can inspire young students to study science-related ﬁ  elds. 
“It gets the younger generation interested 
in what we’re doing,” the UF astronomy and physics senior said.
Astronomy junior Michael Heslar said the 
only reason Pluto doesn’t qualify as a planet 
anymore is because its orbital path intersects 
Neptune’s. but it meets the other planet re-Pluto exploration expands to New Horizons
CAMPUS
By Jenny Eason
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is continuing to provide the most 
bang for students’ bucks.
Money Magazine released its second-
annual “Best Colleges” list Tuesday, with UF ranked No. 1 in Florida. 
UF, the only school in the state of Flor-
ida that ranked in the top 100, was also No. 8 among public colleges and No. 30 overall.
According to its website, Money ranked 
the top 736 schools that provide the best value for tuition dollars on 21 factors sepa-rated into three equally weighted catego-ries: educational quality, affordability and alumni earnings provided by Payscale.com.
“We do well in rankings like this consis-
tently now,” said UF spokesman Steve Or-lando, “and I think it’s because we’re just getting out that UF offers a great return on investment for tuition dollars.”
Ashley Mohr, a 22-year-old UF educa-
tion senior, said she’s not surprised by these ﬁ  gures.
Mohr said she thinks it’s going to con-
tinue to be harder for high school students to get into UF.“We’re gonna raise our standards to 
continue to be the best and be the best val-ue so it’s gonna mean higher SAT scores,” she said, “and I hope to God they keep the 
prices down.”
Remy Hanewinckel, a 20-year-old me-
chanical engineering junior, said rankings shouldn’t be the main focus for a school.
“I think it’s always good to try to strive 
to get better and try to increase in rank-
ings,” he said, “but I don’t think it’s that 
important to do because I feel like we’re 
already at a pretty good place.”
Orlando said there have been steady 
improvements in areas such as graduation rates and preeminence funding over the past ﬁ  ve to 10 years, which is helping UF increase in rankings.
“I think all of those things put together 
is just creating a better and better picture 
of UF that’s gaining more national recogni-
tion now,” Orlando said.Ranking: UF top university in state for value, 30th nationallyBy Luisa Guaracao
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Linda Parker Hudson 
graduated from UF in 1972, she was one of the two women in her class.
For Hudson, being one of the 
ﬁ  rst women to start a career in engineering meant she often had to ﬁ  gure things out on her own. A 
lack of mentors didn’t stop Hudson 
from becoming the ﬁ  rst female CEO in the defense industry, where she served time as both CEO and presi-dent of BAE Systems, an aerospace and defense company. 
However, she said mentors play 
an important role in the develop-ment and growth of students, a role 
so important that she donated $1 
million to the UF College of Engi-neering so students can have the opportunity she didn’t have.
“I don’t think I ever had a men-tor,” Hudson said. “There were no women in higher level roles to mentor me, and men weren’t so in-clined to mentor me.”
Mentorship, however, is just 
one of the components of the new 
Linda Parker 
Hudson Leader 
in Residence Program in En-gineering. The program, which is expected to 
start at UF this Fall, offers engi-neering students 
an opportunity to have direct and in-depth interaction with profes-sionals in their ﬁ  elds, according to a press release. 
Hudson said the program will 
provide a chance for students to learn fundamental skills needed to succeed in the workforce. UF  engineering alumna 
donates $1 million 
Patricia Potestades / Alligator Staff 
Lunch is served
Ofﬁ  cer John Nordman, right, hands 8-year-old Micah Reed a chocolate milk at the Reichert House on 
Tuesday. Nine newly hired police ofﬁ  cers for the Gainesville Police Department served 128 students lunch. Read the full story on Page 3.
SEE PLUTO,  PAGE 4NASA has high-res pictures
SEE ENGINEERING,  PAGE 5Parker Hudson
“All of our lives, Pluto has been a tiny 
dot, and now it’s a real world we can 
explore.”
Charles T elesco
UF Department of Astronomy chair
“I think all of those things put together is 
just creating a better and better picture of 
UF that’s gaining more national recognition 
now.” 
Steve Orlando
UF spokesmanSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 162
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Honky Tonk Angels’ closes July 
26 at The Hipp
The Hippodrome has announced July 26 is the final closing date for the hit summer musical 
“Honky Tonk Angels.” Held over 
twice by popular demand, this crowd-pleasing musical tells the story of three women from differ-ent walks of life who cross paths on a bus to Nashville, Tennessee. Along the way, they form an unexpected bond through their shared dream of country mu-
sic stardom. What follows is a 
spirited and lively musical jour-ney, which celebrates country music through the years and features hits by the legendary fe-male voices of Tammy Wynette, 
Loretta Lynn and Dolly Parton. 
“Honky Tonk Angels” is on stage at the Hippodrome State Theatre through July 26. Student tickets are $8 with ID. Call 352-375-4477 or visit thehipp.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  88° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
For children at the Reichert 
House, discipline and routine are 
what their teachers aim to instill 
in them daily.
But on Tuesday at noon, the 
children broke out of their routine 
when they were met with some 
new faces. 
Nine recently hired Gainesville 
Police Department officers visited 
the Reichert House, located at 1704 SE Second Ave., and served 
them lunch.
Reichert House is an after-
school program for at-risk boys 
and is co-founded by GPD Chief 
of Police Tony Jones. 
The house was opened in 
1978, according to their website. 
It serves youth between 11 and 19 years old. 
On Tuesday, each age group 
— elementary, middle and high school — walked into the cafete-ria in a single-file line, 128 chil-
dren in total.
After receiving their meal, the children stood in front of each 
seat at the table until they were instructed to sit, and they didn’t touch their food until they were 
told to eat. 
“Sir, yes, sir,” was their re-
sponse anytime an adult spoke to 
them. 
A police officer’s job is to serve 
and protect, said Gainesville Po-lice spokesman Officer Ben To-bias. 
In the police academy, you 
learn a lot about protecting, To-bias said. 
This is reinforcing that service 
aspect.
The program is run in a para-
military fashion, which is meant to provide structure for the stu-
dents. 
A lot of the children who come 
to the Reichert House don’t have 
a solid father figure in their lives, Tobias said. Without this intervention, 
these children would not get the same structure at their homes, he 
added.
During the summer, the 
Reichert House provides the chil-
dren with lunch every day of the 
week. 
Tuesday’s lunch consisted of 
pizza, peanut butter crackers, 
apple sauce, cartons of milk and a mini cupcake served on a Styro-
foam tray.
“The program is a great asset 
to the community,” said Officer 
John Nordman, one of the newly 
hired police officers who came out 
on Tuesday. 
About three weeks ago, one of 
the Reichert House kitchen staff members passed away.
Since then, the program has 
been short of staff.
Jones spearheaded this effort 
to help relieve the staff shortage 
and to get the other officers in-
volved, Tobias said.
Jones is a community-oriented 
leader, said Robert Shrigley, one of the officers who served the kids 
lunch. 
“He wanted us to follow his 
lead,” he said.New police officers give back, 
serve lunch to at-risk youth
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator 
Mor chikin
Five-year-old Samantha Scali eats chicken nuggets on Cow Appre-
ciation Day on Tuesday while wearing cow attire. 
Police served them pizza
“The program is a great asset 
to the community.”
John Nordman
Police officer4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
quirements because it still orbits the sun and is 
spherical.
In the 1990s, Telesco said new objects of Pluto’s 
size were discovered, and Pluto’s planetary status was questioned. Instead of being the most distant 
object known in our solar system, it became one of 
many distant objects.
“The real question became: What are you going 
to call it?” Telesco said.
The science world settled on “dwarf planet.”
“It’s been awhile since we’ve visited a new 
world,” said Heslar, who is the secretary of the UF Astronomy and Astrophysics Society.
Heslar, 20, said he became interested in astron-
omy by watching science TV shows. He saw how 
Jupiter and Saturn were being explored in the 1970s, and he said today’s research on Pluto mirrors that.
New Horizons illustrates human ingenuity, 
Jeram said.
He calls the spacecraft’s mission “freaking awe-
some,” and he said he hopes other people care about the research, which would encourage funding.
As for Pluto’s new portraits, Jeram pointed out 
the shading of a heart shape toward the bottom of the body.
“We demoted it from being a planet, and it has 
nothing but love for us,” he said.PLUTO,  from pg1Pictures show a heart-shaped shading toward the bottom of Pluto
The Associated Press
This July 13 image provided by NASA shows Pluto as seen from the New 
Horizons spacecraft. The U.S. is now the only nation to visit every single planet in the solar system.
New Horizons Timeline  Jan 19, 2006: New Horizons spacecraft launches from Cape Canaveral, Florida.
  Feb 28, 2007:  Spacecraft ﬂ  ies past Jupiter for a gravity assist that cuts ﬂ  ight time by 
three years. The team conducts signiﬁ  cant science in preparation for the Pluto encounter.
  2007-2014:  For most of the eight-year cruise from Jupiter to Pluto, the craft spins slowly 
in a state of “hibernation, ” signaling once a week to assure it’s “sleeping peacefully. ” But for about 50 days each year, it is awakened to conduct a set of spacecraft and instrument checks as well as navigation measurements to verify the spacecraft is on course.
  Dec 2014:  The spacecraft is awakened from its ﬁ  nal planned hibernation. Intensive 
preparations for the Pluto encounter continue.
  July 14, 2015:  New Horizons makes its closest approach to Pluto.
  2017-2020:  With NASA’s approval, New Horizons can explore suitable, recently 
discovered Kuiper Ball Objects beyond Pluto.
Source: The Johns Hopkins Applied Physics LaboratoryTHURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
“It’s about helping bring real-world experiences to 
the academic environment so that graduates are better 
prepared to enter their chosen professional ﬁ  elds,” Hud-son said.
Daniel Clifford, a 22-year-old civil engineering stu-
dent who’s been fortunate enough to have mentors throughout his life, said he believes a program like this is really needed and could highly beneﬁ  t students.
“I don’t think I’d ever be able to be at that point of 
being a leader without having someone be a leader,” Clifford said. Like Hudson, Clifford said he believes communica-
tion is an essential skill for engineers. Employers have told him they’d rather hire a student with a 3.5 GPA who knows how to communicate effectively rather than someone who has a 4.0 GPA and doesn’t know how to communicate.
Juan Céspedes, a 20-year-old computer science stu-
dent, acknowledges that the competition out there is ﬁ  erce and only the ﬁ  ttest thrive. Although he believes 
mentors are helpful, he said he doesn’t think they can 
just be extended to students. 
“I think a mentor is not just something you can as-
sign to people,” Céspedes said. “It is something that just kind of comes naturally.”ENGINEERING,  from pg 1Money devoted to help mentorshipLOCAL
By Sedona Huffty
Alligator Contributing Writer
As of Saturday, the Newberry 
branch library now offers a Snug-gle Up Center, Teen Space and several other additions.
The library, located at 110 S. 
Seaboard Drive, received $50,000 in funding from the Alachua County Library District to reno-vate and expand the library, ac-
cording to a press release.
The renovations and 3,200-foot 
expansion were celebrated Satur-
day with a ribbon cutting, library tours and family activities.In addition to the two new des-
ignated centers, the library also added 1,200 books, two more 
computer sta-tions, two study rooms, a quiet reading room 
and a reno-vated meeting room, Shaney Livingston, the Alachua County Library District 
director, wrote in an email. 
The Snuggle Up Center pro-
vides an area for children and 
parents to spend time together while learning and participating 
in educational activities, Livings-ton said. The Teen Space offers an area for students to study, play games, read and participate in ac-tivities like drawing workshops and book club meetings.
Bill Conrad, mayor of Newber-
ry, said the library’s renovation and expansion is a great success for the entire community because the facility is a center point for the Newberry and Jonesville area.
“In a small town like New-
berry, it gives us a gathering place and a community center,” Conrad 
said.
Newberry branch library expands
IT HELPS HIGH SCHOOL 
STUDENTS CONNECT THE 
ARTS AND SCIENCE.
By Elise Engle
Alligator Contributing Writer
Harmony has been found this 
week among the diverse academic 
disciplines offered at UF.
The ﬁ  rst STEAM Quest began 
Sunday and will continue through Friday, said Rachel Damiani, a co-coordinator for the event.
Focusing on science, technology, 
engineering, art and math, STEAM Quest gives high school juniors and seniors the opportunity to discover how creativity and exploration are 
important in any ﬁ  eld of study, she 
said.
Damiani said there were only 24 
spots available in the program, and 
there was a surplus of applicants. 
She said of the 24 students chosen, 23 are in attendance.
Abby Furman, a 16-year-old from 
Daytona Beach, said she has enjoyed 
doing activities in different colleges 
at UF and learning about how the arts play into each major. She said one activity that stuck out to her was examining preserved body parts at 
the College of Medicine.
“That was like, disgusting, but 
cool,” Furman said. “You can touch 
it, and it still moves and everything.”
Damiani said that because this 
is the ﬁ  rst year of the program, they are seeing what aspects they like and don’t like.
“This group of students is really 
curious and excited to learn, so that makes things easier,” she said. “That makes all the difference I think.”
Logan Marconi, a co-coordinator 
for STEAM Quest, said activities such as learning how to make their own paint and discovering the sci-entiﬁ  c use of origami help students to discover the broader applications 
for art.
“I think the goal of the week 
is to educate students at an early 
level that these various disciplines 
are interconnected, and they’re not 
separate,” Marconi said. “Research-ers and professors don’t work in separate silos, they actually rely on other disciplines to further their own 
ﬁ  elds.”New program STEAMing 
at College of the Arts
Livingston
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Right, Gainesville, so a lot big things, a lot of cool things 
and a lot of stupid things happened this week, and it’s that 
time of the week when we at the Alligator give you some 
highlights with this week’s edition of …
Darts and Laurels
We’d like to offer a public service announcement regard-
ing a certain ﬁ  gure that has been ﬂ  oating about the head-
lines lately. 
Apparently Donald Trump is worth $10 billion. Man, 
that’s more than the combined wages of everyone at the Alligator. Isn’t it neat?
No.
You see, there have been a lot of headlines tossing that 
number about and a lot quotes with Trump bragging about 
how rich he  is, and we honestly don’t give a single hoot (quantiﬁ  ed as two damns) about it. 
Donald Trump , and also the publications that de-
cided his bragging was a news piece worth more than a ﬁ  ve-inch blurb, you get a nice, hefty 
dart .
We’ve got a lot more on our minds regarding our presi-
dential candidates than their net worth.
Say, for example, the fact that Trump is gaining support 
regardless of his racist remarks. 
Next up, Florida’s got quite the record for weird head-
lines, but even we’re given pause when we ﬁ  nd the head-
line, “Grand jury indicts Kendall man for murder in dog-
poop shooting.” 
Omar Rodriguez , a dog being a dog is not, in fact, a 
fair reason to shoot the owner three times and then threaten his wife when she goes to comfort the bleeding man. 
That’s wrong. You’re bad. You get a 
dart .
Seriously, dude. Relax. You could have offered the guy a 
bag to clean it up or something. 
If you had any doubt over whether we’re currently living 
in the future then lay those doubts to rest because we’ve got pictures of Pluto’s hills and valleys light years away from where we as a human race can even conceptualize the 
existence of the planetoid. 
Or planet if you’re one of those cool kids who lived dur-
ing the era of the nine planets. 
We digress. 
Budget cuts aside, our space program deserves a mighty 
pat to the back for successfully sending a probe to the known edges of our galaxy and sending back tourist shots, but since we don’t have the security clearances to do that here, we’ll just give 
NASA  a laurel  for staying ahead in 
the space race.
Seriously, that’s some cool stuff. 
Lastly, Japan and the U.S. will have the honor of being 
the ﬁ  rst two countries in the world to host a giant robot 
ﬁ  ght. Our take on the matter?
That’s. Freaking. Awesome.
U.S.-based robotics company MegaBots issued a chal-
lenge last month to have their six-ton, dual-piloted, cannon 
wielding, walking robot straight out of a sci-ﬁ   movie face off against Japanese company Suidobashi Heavy Industry’s 4.5-ton, gatling gun-wielding robot Kuratas.
Just writing that last sentence made us feel way more 
cool than we were ﬁ  ve minutes ago. 
This basic concept is getting a 
laurel  for being plain 
badass.Cherish every moment, because life is ﬂ  eeting
We’ve all heard that death is as much a part of life as, well, actually living. At some point in our childhoods, our 
parents pulled themselves up by their 
bootstraps, braced for the ﬂ  urry of 
questions and tears, and imparted this lesson to us, their children. It might be spurred by a 
death in the family (in my case, the family dog), 
or it may emerge totally unprovoked. Regardless of whatever form it takes, the “death talk” is a universally shared experience, and represents a watershed moment in one’s childhood.       
In my own life, I’ve been fortunate enough to have not 
experienced much in the way of death. My parents, grand-parents and friends are all in good health, and while I’ve known peers who have passed away, I could never count 
them among my “close” friends. For this reason, whenever 
a public ﬁ  gure I admire passes away, it always seems to hit me harder than my friends who have experienced deaths that hit closer to home.
With the passing of Satoru Iwata, the president and CEO 
of Nintendo, this past Saturday, I’ve been thinking a lot about death and my own childhood. Iwata’s death didn’t affect me all that profoundly; upon hearing of it, I gasped, texted my best friend and immediately began playing the 
new Super Smash Bros. Trite as it may be, it seemed like 
the only appropriate way to pay tribute to a man who de-ﬁ  ned so much of my youth. Although I don’t play video games with the same regularity that I used to, I still make it a point to follow coverage of the Electronic Entertainment 
Expo (E3) every summer. Since I began following E3 at the 
tender age of 10, Iwata had been a constant presence at the event, announcing Nintendo’s lineup with the same playful professionalism he demonstrated year in and year out. The 
notion of an Iwata-less E3 makes me feel positively ancient.
To most people, it must seem silly to feel old in col-lege. As college students, we’re supposed to be 
vibrant, sparkly things, wearing our youthful op-timism and energy on our sleeves. But as I watch 
key ﬁ  gures of my pop-culture upbringing pass 
away (Lou Reed, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Robin Williams being among them), each suc-cessive death serves as a reminder that the per-
petual human comedy doesn’t stop for anyone.
My generation, more than any generation pre-
vious, has grown up in the most media-saturated 
era civilization has ever seen. Between music, ﬁ  lm, televi-
sion, video games and the Internet, there are more public 
ﬁ  gures than ever for us to identify and empathize with. Be-
cause there’s so much going on at any given moment, it’s easy to fall into the trap of assuming that the status quo will hold. For better or for worse, this could not be further from 
the truth. At some point, all of the key ﬁ  gures of our youth 
will pass away (except for David Bowie, hopefully — the man ages like ﬁ  ne wine), and rather than worrying about whether we’ll have enough money to scrape together for tickets to our next concert, we’ll be more concerned with 
the size of our 401k account.
With my grim philosophizing out of the way, hopefully I 
can make my point: Be aware, and cherish every moment. 
Be aware your friend group your freshman year might not 
be the same one you end up graduating college with, and 
that your current boyfriend or girlfriend might not stick around forever. Cherish the fact that it’s somewhat accept-able to walk to class hungover the next morning; stunts like that won’t be tolerated (or in the event that you become 
tragically out of shape, possible) at your place of work in 
your 40s. Youth is ﬂ  eeting and can be over in the blink of an eye — speaking for myself, college went by faster than high school did. As Drake once mused, “YOLO”.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Thursday.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Some enjoy the occasional browsing 
of a dealership ﬁ  lled with straight, organized lines of shiny new cars 
with no more than 10 miles on the 
odometer, and I have to say I enjoy 
it as well. 
However, I’d much rather spend an after-
noon perusing a junkyard.
In my experience, unless you’re in the 
middle of nowhere, it has become increas-ingly hard to ﬁ  nd the coveted afternoon-stroll junkyards. Junkyards have gotten with 
the technology program, and they have a 
running online inventory on the cars in their lots. They will ask you what you are looking for when you enter the lobby, and if there is 
no search query found in the database they 
will send you on your way. I mean I can see their logic, as you don’t need people wander-ing around near the crusher and the broken glass and metal. 
On my last trip home I visited our local 
“U Pull” salvage yard. The goal was to ﬁ  nd a part for my dad’s car; the reality was that we were going in whether they had said part.
As I walked around I couldn’t help but shudder remembering the 2009 Cash for Clunkers ﬁ  asco. Pretty much any car you ever liked from 
the ‘90s was on the chopping 
block. Sure, saying “1984 and later” rules out what are tradition-ally considered “classic cars,” but 
as of this year, anything built in 
1995 is ofﬁ  cially an antique. The cars were all up on blocks, even if they still had tires. They were organized by domestic, import and European. Trucks were 
on one side, cars were on the other. There 
were rows upon rows, just like at a new car dealership. Except these cars were smashed, dented, rusted and cracked for the most 
part. Instead of 10 miles on their odometers, 
most read more than 100,000. The créme de la créme were lined up at the front. Their bodies still fully intact, they hoped someone would buy them whole. I made a beeline for 
the imports, located at the very back corner 
of the sandlot. On my way, I couldn’t help but hear the sound of the crusher and no-tice an old Eric Forman Cruiser stationwagon 
standing in line for his turn. I had to look away. 
When entering a junkyard, I 
always have the unrealistic dream of seeing Christine, the 1958 Plym-
outh and star of Stephen King’s horror novel of the same name. This particular day, I did come 
across a not-so-uncommon Lin-
coln Continental Mark III, the star of the lesser-known, lower-bud-
geted horror ﬂ  ick “The Car.” 
It’s a mixture of excitement and mel-
ancholy that I feel when I see a junkyard. When driving in the middle of nowhere is when one tends to see them most, on the sides of old two-lane highways. My ﬁ  rst 
thought is always, “I wonder what gems are 
hidden in there?” As I look frantically while trying to watch the road, my next thought is, “Oh, that’s a nice old car, it’s a shame to see it rotting there.” There are certain junkyards 
I pass on my travels in Florida, Alabama and 
Georgia, and the inventory always seems to stay the same. It doesn’t appear that the cars are being sold or crushed, just sitting there in 
a sort of car graveyard. A current internet ﬁ  nd that I will be seek-
ing out in the near future is Old Car City 
USA, located in White, Georgia, just north 
of Atlanta. A former car dealership founded 
in the 1930s, it is exactly a car graveyard. The property spans 34 acres and has more than 4,000 old cars. My mixed feelings come 
up again, because as cool as it seems to be 
able to walk among what is highlighted on their website as “the beautiful vegetation of the deep south that is intertwined with the hundreds of cars,” it kind of seems like a gi-
ant waste.
My unrealistic dream is for all old cars 
to be bought, restored and, dare I say, even 
driven around. It’s fun to see rare older cars 
in any capacity, but it would bring more 
joy to my heart to see them cruising around instead of remaining hoodless, covered in vines and rusting.
I’ll take what I can get, though. I can only 
do my part by saving my next new-used beauty from a rusting fate. I don’t have any plans to buy a brand-new car … ever. 
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Thursdays.
Dealerships are cool, but I'd rather spend an afternoon in a junkyardColumn
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.orgOil from Muscadine grapeseed may 
cause weight loss 
A new UF study shows that oil from a 
grapeseed can be used to reduce obesity.The results, published in June in the jour-
nal Food and Function, show that oil from 
the Muscadine grapeseed can reduce fat ac-cumulation in the body’s cells.Muscadine oil is similar to olive oil, said 
Marty Marshall, an author of the study and 
UF professor of food science and human nutrition. It’s high in fatty acids and con-tains a vitamin E derivative known as to-cotrienol. This form of vitamin E has been 
shown to reduce the buildup of fat in the 
body, he said.For the study, human fat cells were extract-ed from the body and exposed to tocotri-
enol, said Lu Zhao, lead author of the study 
and a UF graduate student. The UF research team is one of the first to discover the benefits of the oil in reduc-ing obesity, Marshall said. The team knew 
there were three major oils that contained 
tocotrienol including rice bran, red palm and grapeseed oil. However, it hadn’t yet been determined which type of grapeseed 
contained the most tocotrienol.
The oil appears to work like a signaling de-vice, instructing the cells to stop storing fat, Marshall said. The team is unsure how many seeds are 
readily available at this time, Marshall said. 
Researchers are optimistic that animal clin-ical trials will begin in a year, Zhao said.
—DAKOTA SUTTON
UF-led research team studies spiny 
lobsters 
UF researchers conducted research on be-
havioral immunity in spiny lobsters, which prevents them from contracting PaV1, a 
lethal disease.
PaV1 threatens spiny lobster population sustainability as heavily infected lobsters suffer from increased lethargy, stop feeding 
and eventually die of metabolic drain, said 
Abigail Clark, a fisheries and aquatic sci-ences graduate student.
“PaV1 prevalence is most common and 
almost always lethal in juveniles and de-clines with lobster size,” she said.
Led by Don Behringer, a scientist in 
the UF School of Forest Resources and Conservation Program in Fisheries and Aquatic Science, the research team exam-ined data from a 2007 massive sponge die-
off in a 926-square-mile area of the Florida 
Keys, according to the journal “PLOS ONE.”Researchers conducted a field experi-
ment in which either a healthy or a PaV1-
infected lobster was introduced into highly aggregated lobster dens, revealing the practice of behavioral immunity.“We were looking to evaluate if it was 
more important for lobsters to have shelter 
and risk infection or for them to leave their shelter and risk predation while looking fornew shelter,” Behringer said.  
It was discovered that exposure to the 
lethal disease posed a greater imminent threat and the lobsters were willing to risk preda-tion to get away from the 
disease.
Healthy lobsters were able to detect the diseased ones through the smell of their 
urine and vacated dens oc-
cupied by PaV1-infected lobsters despite the scar-city of alternative shelters.By eliciting avoidance be-
havior, healthy lobsters 
protect themselves from contracting PaV1 and from facilitating its propagation. 
Spiny lobsters support one 
of the most valuable com-mercial and recreational fisheries in Florida and throughout the Caribbean, 
exceeding more than $500 
million annually.
—MELISSA BROWN
UF-developed mouth-
guard helping stop the nightly grind
UF researchers have devel-
oped what they’re calling a “smart” mouth guard, which allows den-tists to detect if patients are grinding their teeth.The mouth guard integrates sensors that 
transmit information to a smartphone via 
Bluetooth, which can reveal the symptoms of bruxism, or teeth grinding.Yong-Kyu Yoon, an associate professor of 
electrical and computer engineering, first 
began working with dentists about five years ago, when he was asked to collabo-rate on a project that would allow them to identify improperly fitted dentures.
To create the customized mouth guard, 
he collaborated with Fong Wong, an as-sociate professor at UF’s Department of Restorative Dental Sciences, who made the 
dental impressions for the mouth guard’s 
prototype.In trying to create a solution, they quickly realized dentures were too specific, said 
Wong, who specializes in 
prosthetic dentistry.
“It’s not addressing the bigger need for the population,” she said, so they decided the plat-
form they wanted to use was 
a mouth guard.With bruxism, some people grind their teeth unconscious-ly, she said. Mouth guards 
can prevent the breakdown 
of teeth for these patients.Yoon said the most diffi-cult part of developing their 
mouth guard was scaling the 
electronics down into some-thing small enough to fit in-side the mouth.“Everything should be small,” 
he said, “while the function is 
maintained.”Yoon and Fong are now working on another mouth 
guard that will help to detect 
dehydration and concussions, inspired partly by the strong athletic program at UF.“It amazes me how far tech-
nology has come,” said 
Sohyun Lee, a 24-year-old in her second year of dental school. “It makes me excited about what’s to come in the fu-ture.”
—PATRICIA POTESTADES
Certain butterfly species need fire early 
in life to survive
A group of UF researchers has conducted 
experiments that could save threatened species of butterflies.
Over the course of four years, UF scientists 
have studied how two butterfly species — the frosted elfin and the atala hairstreak — could survive in fire -prone habitats in 
Florida.
The butterflies need fire- prone habitats when they are larvae to complete the cycle of becoming butterflies, but fires could also kill them, said Matthew Thom, a research-
er for the experiment and a research ento-
mologist for the Department of Agriculture.The larvae of these two species are special-ist beings, meaning they rely on a certain 
type of organism to live. In this case, it’s a 
plant that requires fire to survive, he said.“It constrains them, but it’s sort of a trade-off,” Thom said.While studying the frosted elfin in Nassau 
County, the group noticed that some of the 
larvae dug under the soil far enough that fire may not have reached them.After burying the pupae at various depths 
below the soil, the scientists and station 
workers set a controlled fire on the area that the pupae, insects in their immature form between caterpillar and butterfly, were located.
The pupae were also tested for heat toler-
ance to see what temperature they could endure and how long they could take that heat, said Jaret Daniels, a UF entomology 
associate professor.
The pupae that were buried 1.1 inches or more below the ground survived 75 per-cent to 100 percent of the time.With these results, the scientists collec-
tively hope that measures will be taken to 
help preserve the frosted elfin especially in North Florida, Daniels said.
—SEDONA HUFFTY8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
RESEARCH ROUNDUPKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
48-hour film race begins tonight
Contestant sign-up is 7 p.m. tonight, pg 12.What’s inside: 
The Avenue’s ﬁ  rst-ever movie drinking game, pg 10.The Avenue reviews Meek Mill’s latest album, pg 11.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
New Orleans rock ’n’ roll sep-
tet the Revivalists is playing in 
Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time Wednes-day.
The band will perform at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 9:30 p.m. Tickets are avail-able for $15 at the door or $13 in ad-
vance on ticketﬂ  y.com.
Pedal steel guitar player Ed Wil-
liams said the band’s national head-
lining tour is in support of their upcoming album, “Men Amongst Mountains,” which will be released Friday.
Williams mentioned the latest 
album features a different, more evolved sound than their last two.
 “We still have some killer solos 
in there, but I think we deﬁ  nitely tried to put out something a little bit more mature, and we’re really proud of it.”
Due to the band’s crazy instru-
mentation, listeners can have a hard time putting them in a category, Wil-liams said. The tour’s most adequate 
title would be “The Unending Tour” 
because the band never really stops, he said. 
Gainesville should expect an en-
ergetic show from the seven-mem-ber band.
Pat Lavery, the owner of Glory 
Days Presents, said the band’s high-energy show is led in part by the intense stage presence of front man David Shaw. 
“They have been favorites at 
Wanee Fest for the last few years, and we feel that energy will be only magniﬁ  ed in the intimate setting of a venue like High Dive,” he wrote in 
an email.While they are very much a 
songwriting-based band, they will 
extend a lot of jams. They have been called a jam band before, but Wil-liams thinks they prefer to be called a “band that jams.” 
With the Revivalists planning on 
bringing their A-game to Gainesville, you may want to be there for it.
“We’re deﬁ  nitely song-oriented,” 
Williams said. “But, you know, we’re from New Orleans, and when you live there with all that New Or-leans culture, it’s hard to not get a little bit of that funk in you when you play.”
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
New Orleans-based septet the Revivalists will perform in Gainesville for the first time at High Dive, located at 210 SW Sec-
ond Ave. Doors open at 8 p.m., and tickets are $15 at the door or $13 in advance on ticketfly.com.
New Orleans rock band to perform ﬁ  rst-ever GNV show
MUSIC
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
A renovation effort will ﬁ  nally pass after 
the Matheson History Museum received a 
$300,000 state historic preservation grant.
The Florida Department of State has al-
located $300,000 for the renovation of the 
former Melting Pot restaurant, located at 
418 E. University Ave. The grant will go to-ward the renovation of the exterior build-ing to transform it into a library archive and community meeting space, said Peggy Macdonald, the executive director at the Matheson History Museum.
Betsy Albury, the board president, sub-
mitted the application for the grant in the fall of 2014. Albury led a team of Matheson board members and members of the com-munity in applying for the grant.
“It’s almost like writing a book,” Mac-
donald said. “Every detail of the renova-tion had to be included down to every last nut and bolt.”
The museum was chosen based on a list 
of criteria that included economic impact and whether their proposal fulﬁ  lled all the 
requirements for the preservation grant.Architect Jay Reeves contributed the 
preliminary sketches for the renovations.
“They were truly a work of art,” Mac-
donald said. “We have them on display at 
the museum.”
With the new renovations ahead, Mac-
donald said there are a lot of internship opportunities for students available. Some of the internships include history, museum studies, library studies and communica-tions.
“We would love it if we could work 
on some video projects on the history of Gainesville and Alachua County,” Macdon-ald said. “There will also be editing oppor-tunities in publishing.”
Macdonald explained that the museum 
will be reviving an old press that will need writers for possible publication.
There will be volunteer opportunities of 
all different commitment levels from stu-dents willing to work for an extended pe-riod of time to those wanting to work for only a couple of hours per week.
“We really have exciting opportunities 
for everyone.” Matheson receives grant, oﬀ  ers internship opportunities
The museum received $300,000
“W e would love it if we could work on 
some video projects on the history of 
Gainesville and Alachua County.”
Peggy Macdonald
executive directorTHURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
MEANGIRLS
By Daniela Garcia
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
 Someone lies
 Gretchen says “fetch”
 Thereʼs a new rule
 Karen says something dumb
 Cady imagines humans 
acting like animals
 Someone gets a candy gram Take a shot when…
 A bus almost hits someone
 Coach Carr  teaches sex 
education
 Thereʼs a three-way call
 Someone mentions 
Damianʼs sexuality
 Janis crosses something 
off the chalkboard
Finish your drink…
 During “Jingle Bell Rock”
 When Regina kisses Aaron 
at the Halloween partyNo time to watch a whole se-
ries on Netﬂ  ix? No worries. This 
week’s binge-drinking game will be condensed. It’s the Avenue’s ﬁ  rst-ever movie drinking game, and 
there’s no better movie to raise your 
glass to than the hit comedy “Mean Girls.”
For those rare souls who aren’t 
familiar with the movie, it portrays a year in the life of Cady Heron, a high school junior entering public school for the ﬁ  rst time. After be-ing homeschooled in Africa for the majority of her life, she is forced to 
face a teen’s worst nightmare: high 
school.
Recognized by the most popu-
lar girls in school, Regina George and her troop of “Plastics,” Cady struggles to remain humble with-out getting swept up in the world of popularity.
Whether you’re a ﬁ  rst-timer or a 
“Mean Girls” connoisseur, the ever-
so-quotable comedy will have you 
reciting lines from the movie for days (and even years) after. 
Caution: Try not to spit out your 
drink while you burst into laughter.MEEK MILL ’S NEW ALBUM IS POLISHED, DEVELOPED ff the Record
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Meek Mill has been busy dreaming for 
years, but with his latest album, he can ﬁ  nally rest on his laurels.
After putting out a swarm of music over the 
past ﬁ  ve years, the rapper released his sopho-
more album, “Dreams Worth More Than Mon-
ey,” on June 29 via Maybach Music Group, Atlantic Records and Dream Chasers Records.
The LP, his ﬁ  rst since 2012, features a long 
list of contributors stretching from The Week-nd to Drake to Nicki Minaj. Hell, even Mozart makes a cameo.
The album’s opener, “Lord Knows,” sounds 
like a mosh pit at the philharmonic. The song samples a portion of Mozart’s “Lacrimosa,” but it may be the ﬁ  rst time the composer’s mu-sic sounded like a literal wolf gang. A massive, 
imposing chorus from singer Troy Ave clears 
the air before Meek ﬂ  ashes his teeth amid pant-ed venting. A booming sub-bass and a medley of quick-hitting percussion nearly drown the orchestral chants and elegant strings, but the mayhem is met by moments of relative calm. Meek’s boastfully impassioned verses take aim at his critics and competition — but the after-shock can be felt two countries over.
“Jump Out the Face” starts off sedately be-
fore spiking into fury. Faint synthesizers make way for a clamoring bassline as Meek and fellow rapper Future take turns talking them-
selves up.
 Further along, “R.I.C.O.” features rapper 
Drake for an opening verse and an oddly in-
fectious chorus. While the big feature gives “R.I.C.O.” far more playback potential than it would otherwise, Meek refuses to take a back-seat. He lets loose immediately, but his verse shows deliberate restraint. It ﬁ  nds him bottling up his usual energy and releasing it in spurts, a nod to his artistic maturation. Although the masses may come for Drake, they’ll stay for Meek.
Compared to his mixtapes and ﬁ  rst album, 
the rapper’s latest record feels more concise and developed. Content-wise, you’re still hearing gritty tales of his come-up mixed in with braggadocios money-talk. But this time around, Meek serves it up on a much more polished, eclectic platter.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
LEE SHOCKS READERS
 WITH LATEST NOVEL
By Hunter Williamson
Avenue Writer
EDITOR’S NOTE: SPOILERS AHEAD
A lot has changed since “To Kill a Mock-
ingbird” was ﬁ  rst released 55 years ago. We 
landed on the moon, made the world a more peaceful place and worked toward equality for all.
Along the way, there were people and char-
acters who inspired us and role models we looked to in difﬁ  cult and trying times. One of those characters was Atticus Finch. He was the epitome of justice and equality, a fatherly ﬁ  g-ure to many and an example of how to face racism. But life has a way of throwing sur-prises at us, and one of them is that Atticus is a racist.
“Go Set a Watchman” takes place 
some 20 years or so after Atticus defended a falsely accused black man of raping a white woman. The 
characters we knew from then have 
changed and some new ones are in-troduced, but many things remain the same. In her talented writing, Harper Lee fur-ther ﬂ  eshes out the characters we know and introduces the new, mixing in the Southern charm, slang and traits encompassed in our daily lives. Her writing also catches another thing: the casual racism of the South.
In “To Kill a Mockingbird,” we see the rac-
ism of Maycomb, Alabama, through the in-nocent eyes of Jean “Scout” Finch and how 
it affects her daily life. Now, in “Go Set a 
Watchman,” we revisit Maycomb with 
Scout at the age of 26. We meet Hen-ry, her longtime love and potential fu-ture spouse. We learn more about her 
deceased mother and the death of her 
beloved brother, Jem. But most shock-
ing to the readers, and Scout, is Atticus’ 
racist attitude toward black people — his be-
lief that they are “backward” people who will bring society crashing down if they receive full civil rights. Henry’s shared racist beliefs only complicate the situation, leaving Scout ques-tioning everything she knows and the people she loves.
“To Kill a Mockingbird” was released short-
ly before the Civil Rights Movement, during a time when racial tensions were high. Now, more than ﬁ  ve decades later, the U.S. once again faces racial tension, evident by the recent church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina, and the killing of unarmed blacks by white 
police ofﬁ  cers nationwide. Like Scout, we face 
the challenge of dealing with these issues. “Go Set a Watchman” doesn’t offer a clear-cut an-swer on how we do, but it doesn’t claim to. Instead, it presents the ﬁ  ctional journey of a character facing a non-ﬁ  ctional issue that real people face. It asks us: Do we run from it, al-lowing it to continue? Or do we face it head on? 
Harper Lee’s “Go Set a Watchman” is full of surprises
By Katrina Alvarez
Avenue Writer
The Backyard at Boca Fiesta 
and Palomino is hosting a ﬁ  lm race where contestants are required to create a one- to ﬁ  ve-minute ﬁ  lm good enough to impress judges and 
audience members — all within 48 
hours.
The event is free for all partici-
pants and viewers. Sign-ups for the event begin at 7 and the competi-tion will begin 8 p.m. tonight at The Backyard at Boca Fiesta and Palo-
mino, located at 232 SE First St. 
Contestants will draw three 
genres out of a hat and choose 
which one they like best for the making of their ﬁ  lm. Films also require a provided prop, a line of dialogue and an action contestants must perform.
James Barratt, a media and ad-
vertising coordinator for the event, said possible genres include detec-tive noir, western, rom-com, sci-ence ﬁ  ction, buddy cop, gangster movie, spoof and telenovela, along with several others.
It’s been more than a year since 
Stephanie Falcon, a 30-year-old ﬁ  lm race contestant, has created her last ﬁ  lm, and she’s expressed excite-
ment.
“I’ll be the team leader as well as 
doing all the editing and directing,” 
Falcon said. “I will also have ﬁ  nal say on all decisions. What can I say, I’m a bit of a control freak.”
Movies must be turned in by 8 
p.m. Saturday and will be screened at 10 p.m.
 Audience members can vote for 
their favorite entry with voting slips provided at the door.
Barratt said prize categories in-
clude best actor and actress, best picture, best effects or cinematog-raphy, best screenplay or original story, best editing, best soundtrack and best use of required element.
Prizes include a $25 gift card 
from Ameraucana Wood Fire pizza, two mainstage and cinema tickets from the Hippodrome State Theatre, a $50 gift card from SoMa Art Media HUB, brewery tours for up to eight winners from Swamp Head, 10 rent-als from Video Rodeo, $50 in drink tokens from The Backyard at Boca 
Fiesta and Palomino, and a prize 
pack with a shirt, pint glass and growler from First Magnitude Brew-ing Company.
Barratt said this is the ﬁ  rst in a 
series of events that will occur every two to three months.
“Keep an eye out in September 
for our Sweded Film Fest, a la ‘Be Kind Rewind,’” he said.Boca Fiesta hosts ﬁ  lm race tonight
LOCAL
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, JULY 17
Grit
High Dive 
210 SW Second Ave.
9 p.m. | $6 advance, $7 door
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SATURDAY, JULY 18
Mad About Science Family Fun Day
Matheson Museum
513 E. University Ave.
1 p.m. | Free event
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SUNDAY, JULY 19
“We Are Still Here”
Hippodrome State Theatre
25 SE Second Place
2:30 p.m. | $6 regular, $5.50 student
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
“I’ll be the team leader as well 
as doing all the editing and 
directing. I will also have inal 
say on all decisions. What can I 
say, I’m a bit of a control freak.”
Stephanie Falcon
contestantBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2 bedroom apt for rent, 10 minutes from campus. Nice community. Furnished. Asking $585. First month down. No central heat/AC, no pets, no smoking/drinking/drugs. Grad stu-dent preferred. Call Mr. Parker 352-213-5942    8-2-15-5-1
MASTER BR/BA for rent in 2BR/2BAfurnished condo. Close to campus & Shands,on 3 bus routes. $400/mo. 1/2 utils.Free wifi/cable. Short-term. Aug - Dec 28th.Possibly 1 yr. 727-815-2219     7-16-15-5-1
GRAD STUDENT, Christian female needed for BR w/BA, kitchen privileges, utils, $350/mo. NE section, bus route. Call between 9am & 4pm, Mon thru Fri. 352-519-9363    7-21-15-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    8-6-15-8-1
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA 
house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    7-16-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   7-30-15-30-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-24BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-30-15-13-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
We have a 1br, or 2br units available in Holly Heights for $425-$575. Also available in Tower Oaks a 2br/2ba unit for $525. As well as 2br units available in Tower Village for $525-$650. 352-224-5011   7-23-15-7-2
2 Blocks To Stadium
Freshly decorated 2BR/1BA. Wood floors. 
$900/mo. Call 352-346-0123    7-23-15-6-2
3 bedroom 2 bath home for rent.
Big, beautiful home in a great neighborhood.
1.6 miles from the University.
washer, dryer, outdoor deck, 2 car garage.
$550 per room only 2 rooms left.
Joe 352-406-9325
7-21-15-4-2
3-4 BR 2 bath home with swimming pool 
located 40 minutes from Gville in Keystone Heights city limits Pets negotiable new AC and W/D quiet dead end street $1200 a month  307-690-9509       7-16-15-2-2
SPACIOUS 3BR/2BA HOUSELarge back porch, W/D, wood floors, new upgraded master bath. New exterior paint & jacuzzi on back porch. $1400/mo. Call 352-258-9116                7-28-15-5-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 & 4/3 apt. homes. Starting at $1175.
Parking included.
Walking distance to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-9-2
Cute vintage 3BR/2BA house on quiet street in NW; bike to UF/Downtown, wood floors,CH/AC,laundry,D/W. $1200 Email 1119@cozygator.com, Call/text (352) 575-4395, www.cozygator.com    7-21-15-2-2Granite counter tops. Wifi, washer, and 
dryer included, Walk-in closet.
Nice community close to Archer rd.
UF main campus and Shands.
With 3 bus routes call-4076971571  
7-23-3 2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
Lake Lure, NCNew log cabin on 3+ acres with lg. creek. $159,900. Huge covered porches, 2bed, 2bath, hardwood and tile floors. 828-286-2981. Won't last!    7-16-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
PUBLIC AUCTIONThurs, July 23 at 10am2250 N. Commerce Parkway, Weston, FL 33326Huge Sale!  Former 100,000 sq. ft. college campus equipped with new & barely used quality office, university classroom and ad-ministrative furniture (pristine condition). Preview: 07/22 10-4pm15%-18%BP Live/Onlinewww.moeckerauctions.com /(800)840-BIDSAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin7-16-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    7-16-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★Great Scooters, Service & Prices!118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.comfacebook.com/newscooters4less8-17-15-25-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
for sale: 2012 Metro Retroblue & white 49cc, mileage 3,688$750 & includes black helmet located in Gainesville (813)391-5875    7-16-15-3-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31918-17-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992   7-16-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 AutosTHURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
Coastal Georgia In-residence position
Housekeeper/Server Greyfield Innon Cumberland Island.Dining experience and some knowledge of wine required. $28,500/year with room and board included.Inquire seashore@greyfieldinn.com    7-21-15-7-14Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.  7-30-15-9-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    7-28-15-6-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.     7-30-15-7-14
LEASING AGENT  FT & PTFriendly, organized, motivated, outgoingperson with good communication skills &computer knowledge.Must be avail. weekends.Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.Apply in person at Lake Crossing Apts.4000 NW 51st Street       DFWP8-17-15-9-14EXPERIENCED MAINTENANCE 
TECHNICIAN  FT
For property mgmt. team.
PTO, Ins., Bonus Plan, 401k.
Apply in person:
Contemporary Mgmt. Concepts
13420 Progress Blvd., Ste. 200 Alachua DFWP
8-17-15-8-14
Oaks Veterinary HospitalHIRING Receptionists & TechsLooking for hardworking pre-vets who are willing to learn        Experience a plusSend resume to oaksvet@gmail.com    7-30-15-5-14
Gator Dining Serviceslocated on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
A painter with no computer skills looking for a tutor for painting on computer and updat-ing web site. Call after 10AM 466-4432.        7-23-15-3-14p/t office/home cleaner needed if interested please contact Caleitha@352-214-0868..must own a reliable car and be able to pass a background/drug test.. paying $8/hr    7-30-5-14
Full-time Preschool/Kindergarten Assistant Teacher at Millhopper Montessori SchoolFull-time Assistant Preschool/Kindergarten teacher. Benefits available, 401k included. Please email mmschool@millhopper.com    7-30-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    7-16-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    7-16-1-14
ATTN: Drivers – Great Miles + Top 1% Pay2 CPM Pay IncreaseLoyalty BonusQuality EquipmentPet/Rider ProgramCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com     7-16-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    7-16-1-14Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    7-16-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-15-25-15
Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. U.S. STATES: What time zone is 
the state of Alabama in?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek prefix “crypto” mean?
3. SCIENCE: What does an ichthy-
ologist study?
4. MOVIES: What was the first 
major movie to show a flushing toilet?
5. ABBREVIATIONS: What does 
BMW stand for?
6. MUSIC: Who wrote the Beatles’ 
song “Here Comes the Sun”?
7. MEASUREMENTS: The word 
“octennial” refers to a recurring period 
of how many years?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the only mammal that can fly?
9. GEOGRAPHY: What did the 
African nation of Burkina Faso used to 
be called?
10. MYTHOLOGY: Who was the 
Egyptian god of the afterlife?
Answers
1. Central
2. Hidden or secret
3. Fish4. “Psycho”5. Bavarian Motor Works6. George Harrison7. Eight8. A bat9. The Republic of Upper V olta10. Osiris
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 13, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-15-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Moving? Don't fuss leave it to us! GUARANTEED to get your security deposit back. Hall of Fame InEx Cleaning a Licensed & Insured cleaning service. Call today (352)246-3264    7-16-15-5-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    7-16-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    7-16-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    7-16-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoatna.org
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    7-16-1-16
Oxygen ConcentratorInogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-LastingBattery. Try It RISK-FREE! ForCash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    7-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
22 Tickets
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.FOUND - KEYS   
Left in Uber car approximately 10 days ago. Has 
red bus on ring. Call to identify 352-262-1126   7-23-3-25
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
SEE THE WORLD FROM YOUR 
BACKYARD! ISE IS LOOKING FOR FAMILIES AND REPRESENTATIVES INYOUR COMMUNITY TO WORK WITH EXCHANGE STUDENTS. 888-634-8789 or isesouth@aol.com    7-16-1-20
15 Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us online at
www.twitter.com/alligatorsportsfor updates on all Florida athletics. Florida wide reciever Demarcus Robinson has been named to the Biletnikoff Award Preseason watch list, given to the most outstanding receiver in college football.  
Gators women's tennis adds player
The Florida women's tennis team is adding another player to its roster as 
Russian Anna Danilina will be joining the team for the 2015-16 season. Danilina will have three years of eligibility reamining and she's won six titles as a junior on the International T ennis Federation Circuit. Cohen: Baseball wins four 
straight to clinch SEC tour-
ney championship
There were several memorable 
moments over the course of Florida 
baseball’s 2015 season, but maybe the most impressive one came dur-ing the Southeastern Conference 
Tournament.
After losing 7-6 to Arkansas in 
the tournament’s ﬁ  rst round, the 
Gators’ next loss would mean elim-ination. UF responded by defeating its next four opponents to claim the SEC Tournament Championship.
After recording a .242 bat-
ting average against Arkansas, UF 
rattled off averages of .365, .407, 
.290 and .378 en route to the SEC title. UF outscored the rest of the ﬁ  eld, including No. 1 LSU and No. 9 Vanderbilt, by a combined score of 30-6.
The comeback also marked the 
ﬁ  rst time since 2011 and just the seventh time in school history that 
Florida had secured the SEC Tour-
nament Championship.
And the Gators didn’t stop 
there. 
The wins kept coming for Flor-
ida, who swept the competition in both the Regional and Super Re-gional Rounds of the NCAA Tour-nament.
The comeback wasn’t just im-
pressive, but it also kickstarted a season-deﬁ  ning run. 
Hack: Treon Harris sparks 
fourth-quarter comeback 
against TennesseeThere weren’t many bright spots 
in the Florida football team’s 2014 
campaign, but the fourth quarter of the Oct. 4 matchup with Tennessee was one of them.
Down 9-0 in Knoxville, Ten-
nessee, without any semblance of offensive productivity, freshman Treon Harris replaced starting quarterback Jeff Driskel with eight seconds remaining in the third quarter and proceeded to give the Gators the spark they needed.
Although Harris didn’t do any-
thing particularly impressive, the team’s lifeless offense was sud-denly able to stay on the ﬁ  eld and move the ball, resulting in two scoring drives and a shocking 10-9 win for the Gators — their 10th in a row over the Volunteers dating back to 2005.
While that statistic would have 
obviously meant more when the streak started, beating Tennessee every year for a decade is still a sig-niﬁ  cant accomplishment at Florida.
Also, with the way the season 
played out, the Gators ultimately needed the comeback to avoid missing a bowl game for the second year in a row, which hasn’t hap-
pened in Gainesville since 1986.
Hall: UF women's basket-
ball battles back for road up-
set over UGA
While it isn’t the most notable 
of the group, the Florida women’s 
basketball team pulled off the best comeback of the year.
Trailing by 14 in the second half of a road battle with No. 24 Geor-gia, the Gators could have folded like they repeatedly had through-out the season.
But UF kept hitting shots and 
forcing Georgia into turnovers be-fore eventually taking a 46-45 lead with 1:15 to play — Florida’s ﬁ  rst lead since Ronni Williams scored the opening bucket.
The Gators held on to win 51-48 
in arguably the biggest comeback under coach Amanda Butler, and 
the ﬁ  rst win at Georgia in her UF 
coaching career.Most impressive about the win, 
however, was how Florida pulled it off. The Gators closed the game on a 27-10 run, using a combination of 
three-pointers and solid free throw 
shooting to complete the road up-set.
It was a tough season for the 
Gators, but they managed to pull off a comeback upset through tough defense and strong shooting. 
McPherson: Women’s ten-
nis rallies to top Texas A&M
The Florida women’s tennis team knows how to gut out the tough victories.
Case-in-point: UF’s 4-3 road win 
over Texas A&M on March 24.
Florida, sitting pretty at 15-1 on 
the season and undefeated through its ﬁ  rst seven SEC games, found themselves in an early 2-0 hole after getting swept in doubles and 
seeing junior Brianna Morgan — 
the team’s leader on the court — drop a 6-2, 6-2 decision on the No. 3 court. 
But when the veteran fell, the Alligator Awards: Florida's best 
comeback in the 2014-15 season 
TORRES TELLS IT
When the Florida Gators announced 
the three players who were going to attend Southeastern Conference Media Days, there were some peo-ple confused to as why Brandon 
Powell was chosen. 
Powell, who switched from running back 
to wide receiver during the offseason, was not a meaningful contributor for the Gators 
last season. 
Why would coach Jim McElwain choose 
an unheralded sophomore with just 16 car-
ries for 70 yards, 15 receptions for 147 yards and two total touchdowns?
Powell admitted to never play-
ing wide receiver in his life, and 
he was unable to display his skill 
set throughout the Spring, but that didn’t seem to matter. 
It was clear that McElwain sees 
something in the Deerﬁ  eld Beach native.   
“He’s one of those guys that 
has proven that he can effect our team in a lot of ways in the way that our team looks at 
him a little bit,” McElwain said on Monday at SEC Media Days. 
“He’s a quiet leader and a guy 
that works his tail off.”
While the quarterback battle 
is a major storyline, and there are 
people who will think either Treon Harris or Will Grier will be the key 
to an offensive turnaround, that 
won’t be the case.
It’s going to be Powell who will 
be the catalyst for the offense. 
If Powell can live up to the expectations 
the coaching staff has for him, he’s going to make it a lot easier for whoever wins the the quarterback job. 
And he’ll take pressure off receiver De-
marcus Robinson, who will often draw dou-ble coverage. 
There are other players on the offense 
who are probably better than Powell, but 
none of them are as versatile as the sopho-
more.
“His experience (as) a running back and 
his ability to go out in space is something that we’ll be able to do some things where UF's Brandon Powell looking to ﬂ  ourish following oﬀ  season position change Alligator File Photo
Treon Harris (3) helped the Gators defeat T ennessee 10-9 on Oct. 4. Harris replaced starting quarter-
back Jeff Driskel near the end of the the third quarter. 
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIIThe Alligator Awards continue this week, with the third award being 
for “Best Comeback Moment.” Editor-in-chief Jordan McPherson and staff writer Ian Cohen join alligatorSports editors Graham Hall, Luis Torres and Graham Hack in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 18
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1918   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
August 24th
August 12thRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin:ﯥDeadlin:ﯥ
(352) 376-4482 advertising@alligator.orgContact your 
sales rep today and reach over8,200 new students,44,000 returning students and 13,700staﬀ and faculty!
youngsters picked the team right back up.
The Gators fought back to tie it 3-3 with 
singles wins by sophomore Kourtney Keegan 
and freshmen Brooke Austin and Josie Kuhl-man, putting all the pressure on the No. 6 
court, a tooth-and-nails matchup between 
UF’s Peggy Porter and Texas A&M’s Stefania Hristov.
After Porter dropped the ﬁ  rst set 6-2, 
the Dallas native rallied to win the second set 6-4 and clinched the victory with a 7-6 showdown in the deciding third set, marking the ﬁ  rst three-set clincher of the freshman’s young career.
The Gators went on to win four of their ﬁ  -
nal ﬁ  ve regular-season dual matches to claim the SEC title for the 10th time under head coach Roland Thornqvist.
Torres: Redemption for A.J. 
Crouch
If you’re ever going to talk about a come-
back, there isn’t one better than golfer A.J. Crouch. 
When Buddy Alexander resigned and new 
head coach J.C. Deacon came in, Crouch de-
cided to get away. Crouch was in limbo dur-
ing the Summer and he wasn’t around the team. 
But he decided to give it another go and 
head back to the team. There was one ca-veat though — he was no longer on schol-arship and had to prove himself to Deacon. 
And after not being chosen to be a part in 
the team’s ﬁ  rst Fall tournament of the year, Crouch stepped up. 
He competed in the second tournament of 
the year as an individual and would work his way back into the ﬁ  ve player lineup. 
It all culminated for Crouch in the last 
Fall tournament of the year — the Florida Gulf Coast Invitational in Estero, Florida. 
The junior was in a three-way tie for ﬁ  rst 
place after the opening day of the tourna-ment at 2-under-par. 
However, on the second and ﬁ  nal day of 
the event, Crouch shot an even-par, 72 to win the individual title at the event by two strokes. 
Crouch would become a regular in Dea-
con’s lineup in the Spring and would be one of the best golfers on the team. 
Not bad for a guy who wasn’t on scholar-
ship during the season.   
Which comeback did you think was best? 
Vote online at alligator.org/sports. 
All results will be revealed in our New 
Student Edition on Aug. 17.AWARDS,  from pg 17Crouch lost scholarship but returned in 2014-15 under Deacon THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
we shift him back in the backfield … and take a 
handoff,” McElwain said. 
“He can even protect where needed in the quick 
game. … The flexibility is something we’re looking for.”   
Powell is in the best position to emerge as the 
Gators’ breakout player this season. He’s already 
drawn the attention of Florida’s secondary. 
Just ask Vernon Hargreaves III.
“The DB’s, we pick on him the most because he’s 
one of the best,” Hargreaves said. “Everybody wants to go (against) him and I’m excited to see what he 
can do. … He’s a great athlete, he can really do any-
thing. 
"You have to deal with him. You have to under-
stand where he’s at on the field, or he can hurt you.”
For Powell, he’s going to have to embrace the 
role McElwain and offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier have given him. 
Being the guy who can change the game with 
a single handoff or catching a pass and using his 
speed and explosiveness in space from the slot posi-tion.
He’s well aware of what he brings to the team.
“Just one of those scat guys in the slot that can 
get open and make plays. That’s what I think I bring to the table,” Powell said.   
Given he’s already missed time with injuries, 
staying healthy will be Powell’s priority this year.
There aren’t many aspects of Florida’s offense to 
get excited about.
The quarterback position is still up for grabs and 
the offensive line is full of question marks and un-proven talent.
If Powell can be anything close to what McEl-
wain thinks he can be, then he could fuel the offense 
and the Gators may contend in the SEC East.COLUMN,  from pg 17Powell expects to use his 
athleticism to line up in the slot
Alligator File Photo
Brandon Powell scores a touchdown during Florida's 28-20 win over 
East Carolina in the Birmingham Bowl on Jan. 3. 
"If Powell can live up to the 
expectations the coaching staff 
has for him, he’s going to make 
it a lot easier for whoever wins 
the quarterback job."20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015
