We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 144 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
A Shore Thing
Sophomore pitcher Logan Shore is proving his 
worth for the UF baseball team, pg 29
Moving out & Giving Back
Check out our graphic about where to donate your stuff, pg 13.
Seniors say goodbye
Read the columns from the seniors on our staff, including our editor-in chief, managing editors and more, pgs 6-9.Women’s rights groups protest
Senate bill regulating abortions
They rallied on the corner of campus, at 
West University Avenue and 13th Street,  pg14
   pg14
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Claudia Costagliola, 45, laughs with her eldest son, Cristobal Gonzalez, 23, in her 
home’s living room. The two will graduate from a Ph.D. program and a master’s program, respectively, this week.
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Claudia Costagliola did most of her 
research for her doctoral degree sitting 
on the hazel, paisley couch in her liv-ing room.
Sometimes her eldest son, Cristobal 
Gonzalez, would join her, and they would discuss theories together.
Now the hard work is done, and 
they can recline on the couch together and look forward to their simultane-ous graduations.
Costagliola, 45, will accept her 
Ph.D. in Spanish literature Thursday. Gonzalez, 23, will earn his master’s 
in sociology and a certiﬁ  cate in Latin 
American studies three days later.
“I’m the luckiest guy in the world,” 
Gonzalez said, nodding to his mom. “I have the best mentor, instructor.
“And my dad is a badass.”Gonzalez moved to Gainesville 
from Chile in 2005 when his father, Carlos, was accepted into UF to pursue 
his Ph.D. After they settled, Costagli-
ola thought: Why not get a master’s?
She started with Spanish litera-
ture, and soon after, she discovered her love of queer theory, especially in Latin America.  
Her doctoral studies focused on 
how AIDS affects a marginal popula-tion of homosexuals in Latin America and the representation of homosexual-ity in literature.
Gonzalez is defending his thesis 
May 18, which follows the perception of and experience with farm worker communities in central Florida.
“I’ve always been interested in sub-
jugative populations, or people that are shunned,” he said. “And she’s do-ing the same thing.”
“Yeah, it’s true,” she said. “It’s fun-
ny because sometimes we talk about it, and we’re studying the same thing.”
They help each other; he has the 
sociology brain, she the humanities. 
“We use our studies as a tool of 
empowerment,” Costagliola said. “It’s my way to do activism through aca-demia.”
Her adviser, Efrain Barradas, UF 
professor of Latin American studies and Spanish, taught one of Gonzalez’s classes. Costagliola used to tell Barra-das that her son, once again, shared stories from class at dinner.
“He intellectually complemented 
his mother,” Barradas said. “I think highly of them both.”UF mother, son share graduation
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Madison Todd said she has been procrastinating 
throughout college, and completing her F-Book tradi-tions was no exception.
“Maybe it’s how it should be — me procrastinating 
one ﬁ  nal time,” she said.
The UF political science senior will be going to Em-
erson Alumni Hall at the end of the week to partici-pate in the Florida Cicerones tradition-keeping logging days. She will compile four years of walking on Turl-ington Plaza and the Plaza of the Americas into one set of photos that will be shown to Cicerone loggers from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Thursday and Friday.
“My goal is to get the medal,” the 22-year-old said.Students need 40 completed F-Book traditions to 
get a medal to wear at graduation, said Anna Shao, Florida Cicerones tradition keeper co-chair. Tradition completers also get three pins, one for every 10 tradi-tions. The 40th earns you a medal.
Shao, a UF biochemistry junior, said students can 
bring physical or digital photos, as well as memora-bilia, that prove what they completed. She said it gets most hectic toward the end, from 2 to 4 p.m., and she recommends students come early.
Although they are encouraged to complete all the 
traditions in their F Books, Shao, 21, said students aren’t conﬁ  ned to them. They have the option to add their own photos, too.
For Todd, this means adding in memories of stu-
dent organizations, such as the National Residence Hall Honorary and College Democrats, she said.Seniors race to 
ﬁ  nish traditions
before deadline
SEE TRADITIONS,  PAGE 4
Courtesy to the Alligator
Madison T odd, a 
22-year-old UF political science senior, poses next to the Albert Murphree near Peabody Hall and the Plaza of the Americas.
SEE 
GRADUATION,  PAGE 4“I’m the luckiest guy in the world.”
Cristobal Gonzalez
UF master’s studentCAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 144
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fulbright Days
The UF International Center will 
be hosting Fulbright Days during the month of April. Sponsored by the U.S. Department of State, 
the Fulbright program provides 
funding for students, scholars and faculty for graduate study and advanced research in vari-ous regions of the world. The information session for faculty will be Thursday from 1 to 3 p.m. at the International Center. For more information, please 
visit ufic.ufl.edu/Fulbright/in-
dex.html.
Marjorie Harris Carr Earth Day 
LuncheonTo commemorate the 45th anniversary of Earth Day, the Cultural Arts Coalition is holding a luncheon honor-
ing Marjorie Harris Carr today 
from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens. The event will feature guest speaker and UF alumna Peggy Macdonald, author of “Marjorie Harris Carr: Defender of Florida’s Environment.” Carr, the wife of longtime UF biol-
ogy professor and turtle con-
servation biologist Archie Carr, is best known for her leader-ship of Florida Defenders of the Environment’s campaign to stop construction of the Cross Florida Barge Canal and restore the Ocklawaha River. Tickets are $30 and can be purchased 
by contacting Nkwanda Jah 
at the Cultural Arts Coalition at 352-372-0216 or at cultur-alartscoalition.org.
Robotics Demonstrations at UF
Robot demo day at UF will 
include demonstrations of 
about a dozen robots built by students in this semester’s Intelligent Machines Design Laboratory course. It will be to-day from 3 to 5 p.m. in the New Engineering Building’s Harris Rotunda. Several other robots from the Machine Intelligence 
Lab will be displayed, including 
the 2014 runner-up robots from two international competitions: our robot boat (PropaGator, which won the world champi-onship in 2013) and our robot submarine (SubjuGator, which has won three previous world championships and came in 
second for the third year in a 
row). Visit mil.ufl.edu/imdl/robot_info_s15.htm for more information.
Rediscovering Diamond Teeth 
MaryThe Matheson History Museum will spotlight the story of 
Diamond Teeth Mary with a 
presentation by award-win-ning journalist Pete Gallagher on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Diamond Teeth Mary is one of the many Florida women who contributed to the blues genre. As a young musician she sang with Billie Holiday, Duke 
Ellington and Nat King Cole; 
she inspired Johnny Copeland to become a musician and performed at Carnegie Hall, the White House, the Apollo Theater and the Cotton Club. For decades, many thought her career in music had end-ed. However, in the 1980s Gallagher discovered and man-
aged the comeback of Diamond 
Teeth Mary. Gallagher is a grad-uate of UF and was thrice nomi-nated for the Pulitzer Prize. Admission is $5.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
An editorial published Monday under the headline "Pets aren't as easy to abandon as old fur-niture" incorrectly stated the Alachua County Humane Society is a chapter of the na-tional group with a similar name. It is, in fact, an indepen-dent organization.HIGH  88° LOW  63°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Party afﬁ  liations got the best of student 
senators Tuesday night.
There was controversy while approving 
the agency heads for the new 2015-16 Stu-
dent Government Executive Committee at 
UF’s Student Senate meeting.
About half of the agency nominations 
were approved unanimously while the rest 
sparked debate.
The debate ensued with the nominations 
of Kevin Gerson for Accent Speaker’s Bureau, Gabrielle Beecher for Action SG, Anthony Close for Chomp the Vote, Blake Murphy for External Affairs, Robert Finigan for Student 
Government Productions and Dillon Knox for 
SGP Comptroller.
Sen. Audrey Guerra, Access, said in the 
past Accent has denied key speakers during Women’s History Month.
She asked Gerson how he would bring di-verse speakers, and Gerson said he will take a more direct approach.
“We’ve waited for (organizations) to ap-
proach us instead of the other way around,” 
Gerson said.
Sen. Michael Christ, Access, said the last 
22 out of 25 Accent Chairs have been from 
the same organization — the fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi, which Gerson is also in. 
“History shows that this process is not fair 
to every student,” he said.
Gerson was not approved.The debates got more heated as the night 
continued.
The next nominee was Beecher for Action 
SG chair. She is known for starting Humans of UF, a Facebook page that proﬁ  les students.
Sen. Kylie Werk, Swamp, questioned 
whether Beecher could be unbiased after her heavy involvement in Access Party cam-paigning.
“I have a hard time approving someone 
so heavily involved in a campaign,” she said.
Christ gave his support for Beecher.“The Senate would be doing a disservice 
to the Student Body by not nominating her,” he said.
Beecher was not approved, and neither 
were the rest of the nominees.
Many of the senators argued nominees’ 
organization afﬁ  liation was taking prece-dence over qualiﬁ  cations.
“Everybody should have the same oppor-
tunity on this campus,” Christ said.  
Sen. Janae Moodie, Swamp, said it was 
discriminatory to vote against nominees based on their afﬁ  liations.
“We are more than our organizations,” 
she said. “It is a shame to spite people.”
Christ shot back.“That’s exactly what these votes have 
been about,” he said.
Aside from the constant debates, three 
resolutions and two student Senate bills were passed unanimously.
A full review of the Senate meeting can be 
found at sg.uﬂ  .edu/GovernmentBranches/Legislative/Minutes. Debates spark controversy in last Senate meeting of semester
However, she doesn’t know which pho-
to best captures her time in college clubs.
“I’ve met so many great people,” she 
said. “I don’t know how I’ll choose.”
In the future, Todd said Cicerones may 
consider adding the tradition of hammock-ing on the Plaza of the Americas, although it’s hard to predict if that will still be popu-lar with future classes.
Shao said Cicerones want students’ F 
Books to serve as mini scrapbooks, a com-pilation of photos and memories that future UF alumni can show their baby Gators.
To help students get their traditions 
logged, Shao and other Cicerones have been offering to take students’ photos of them doing everyday campus activities, like eating Krishna lunch.
UF seniors Anelize Salmon, Valentina 
Cardona and Cara Blackburn picked up their graduation gowns together from the UF Bookstore on Monday.
They plan on ﬁ  nishing up traditions be-
tween studying for ﬁ  nals.
“We’re together now, and it’s going to 
get hectic later, before graduation,” said Salmon, a UF microbiology student.
She and Cardona became friends when 
they attended Miami Dade College before transferring to UF. Cardona and Blackburn were roommates in Beaty Towers.
Cardona said they forgot to bring an F 
Book to campus, but she made a handwrit-
ten list of UF photo opportunities.
Todd said she has taken her time com-
pleting the traditions, even though she does 
many of them on a regular basis.
“It’s easy to put off,” she said. “And 
here we are, the week before it’s due.”
Shao said Todd isn’t the only senior 
cramming to complete traditions this week.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if Krishna 
lunch sales went up a little bit,” she said.TRADITIONS,  from pg1Expect Krishna sales to rise
The family has been academically focused 
for generations. Costagliola’s mother, who came from Chile to attend the graduations, was a librarian. Costagliola ﬁ  rst began reading poetry to her son when she was pregnant with 
him. She read to him every night for years af-
ter. She said if she could’ve spent the whole night doing that, she would have.
Gonzalez remembers reading a Pink Floyd 
philosophy book when he was 16, which helped with his development of social thought.
It wasn’t just about music, he said. But 
given the Beatles memorabilia hanging from the walls, it wouldn’t be surprising if it were.
Their home is a mixture of interests, from 
classic rock tributes to stacks of books. Gonza-lez’s old room holds a row of guitars. A singer, songwriter and guitar player, he plays in two bands — one metal-heavy and ﬁ  lled with Lat-in ﬂ  air — and credits his love of classic rock to his dad, who has played guitar since he was young.
When they’re not talking about music, 
they’re talking about soccer. But they just love to talk in general. Costagliola said she texts Gonzalez every day.
She and Carlos often meet him for lunch, 
sometimes bringing him food at La Casita. They spoil him, she said. They’re so close — one of the beneﬁ  ts of being a young mother.
“I’m a good son,” he laughed. “I’m de-
cent.”
Next week, the family is preparing a Chil-
ean barbecue — steaks, chorizo, pico and Chilean wine — at Gonzalez’s house down-town to celebrate the graduations. It’s the last big event before Costagliola and her husband move with the two younger boys for his new job at Oregon State University in June.
They have it good, Costagliola said, and 
they’re enjoying it while it lasts.
“It’s not going to be the same,” she said. 
“It’s not going to be worse, just different.”GRADUATION,  from pg1Duo always academically focusedNew Student Government 
Executive Committee for 2015-2016:            
Accent Speaker’s Bureau
Kevin Gerson (not approved)External AffairsBlake Murphy (not approved)Chomp the VoteAnthony Close (not approved)Student Government ProductionsRobert Finigan (not approved)Student Government Productions Comptroller Dillon Knox (not approved)Action SGGabrielle Beecher (not approved)Freshman Leadership CouncilAli Kassam (approved)Gators Going GreenDakota Woll (approved)Gator InnovatorsDavid Nassau (approved)Nightlife NavigatorsThomas Burt (approved)Students T aking Action Against RacismJennifer Thelusma (approved)Student Honor CodeGeeta Iyer (approved)Young Leaders ConferenceT aylor Stavitsky (approved)WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORWell, this is it. Here we are, at the end of April, the end 
of classes — and our last day in print.
It’s been a pleasure reporting, writing and taking photo-
graphs for you, the reader, over the past four months. 
Yes, this job is really, really, REALLY tough, and some-
times there simply isn’t enough caffeine in the world or 
hours in the day to get it all done the way we want. 
But, more often than that, we can count our time here as 
one of the more fulfilling experiences we’ve had.
So, on this the day of this semester’s last edition, we’d 
like to look back at our favorite stories from this Spring. Here’s your last-day-of-classes edition of …
Darts & Laurels
Hands down the most exhilarating story we covered this 
semester was the Student Government election. In a depar-ture from usual procedure, it was the first election in recent 
memory where the election results were actually contested. 
The Student Body came out and voted in record numbers, wrestling power from a thoroughly corrupt coalition which had governed us since practically the dawn of time. Ten-
sions were high right up to the moment election results 
were announced. Now we have a new start to look forward to. For that, we’d like to hand a LAUREL to the Access Party and the Student Body.
Another wonderful thing that happened this Spring was 
the legalization of same-sex marriage in Florida. Hey, at least we weren’t the last one to go. We were really lucky it happened in the first week of the semester so we could document that historic day. 
There was a front-page spread of the first same-sex cou-
ple to be married in Gainesville, Steve Allegra and John 
Anderson. So here’s a LAUREL to the state of Florida for 
making that stride toward the right side of history, and 
to all of the activists who fought so hard to achieve that 
change.
When Created Equal rolled into town a few months ago, 
everyone was prepared to avoid its activists and its ridicu-lous posters on their own. Instead, a group of students de-cided enough was enough, and they let Created Equal know how they felt. 
At the protests, students comforted each other, debated 
activists and escorted each other through Created Equal’s rhetorical minefield. The protests united the UF community in a way that was both empowering and really rad. We’d like to give that whole situation a LAUREL.
And, finally, we’d like to give a LAUREL to you, the 
reader. Without you, the sum total of all our efforts would be for nothing. After all, you are the reason we peel our-selves out of bed in the morning and drag ourselves into this office. It is because of you that we look forward to 
doing it.
That’s all for now, y’all. It’s been great, and we’re look-
ing forward to all the crazy news the Summer and Fall se-
mesters will bring. 
Which reminds us … be sure to take a look at the Alliga-
tor website when Fall comes around — it’s getting a long-overdue redesign. 
It’s something at least four of the most recent Alligator 
editorial boards have fought tooth and nail for, and we fi-
nally pulled it off.
Until then, Gainesville: Good luck on exams, and have 
yourselves a great summer.Questions never stop, but at least I found my Alligator 
Let me tell you about journalism.
It makes you question. Question ev-
erything. Which seems obvious, right? Since our job is, you know, being curi-
ous and asking questions and challeng-
ing the norms. But that’s not what I mean.
Beyond this job description, journalists 
question themselves. Constantly. We bom-bard ourselves with prodding questions in the same way we drill our sources but without the veil of professional courtesy.
What’s left is the dark, cold and mostly lonely hole 
that is self-loathing, magnified by this industry that is so immersive and intimate we forget we are more than the sum of our professional accomplishments and fail-ures. 
My time at the Alligator challenged me in this man-
ner more than anything else I’ve done so far. My first steps in the office were apprehensive ones as a fresh-man coming off a high school career spent having no idea what I wanted to do with my life. I sunk my teeth 
in as a staff writer, covering crime, constantly afraid I 
was going to miss breaking news. I became a teacher far before I was ready as metro editor. 
And this past semester as editor-in-chief, I stumbled 
so, so many times. I wondered if it was worth it. 
That questioning never fully went away. Each time 
I thought I made it to the golden threshold — the one where I would finally be at peace with myself — an-other doubt would arise, and the battle to get out of my 
own head would begin again.  
But let me tell you something. Journalism makes you 
question everything. Sanity forces you to remember 
what you learned. The Alligator allows you to apply 
it — weigh the consequences, recognize the merits, rely only on your instincts because no one else is 
going to make decisions for you. I realize now I needed it to remind myself I am not just the 
sum of my professional accomplishments and 
failures.
No one is. I encourage those of you who relate to 
the self-loathing, pressure and dangerous en-tanglement of self-worth and job to find your Alligator — to find the thing that allows you 
to pursue your passion while challenging you to be the best version of yourself.
Because at my worst, the paper was ammo to reduce 
myself to a misplaced comma. But at my best, it showed me what I was capable of when I committed myself to something bigger.
I only hope my next step in life brings out the love in 
me like the paper did. 
And I really hope that, more frequently, I’ll see the 
same potential in myself that I’ve been lucky enough to encounter leading the Alligator. 
Kathryn Varn is a graduating UF journalism senior. 
She is the editor-in-chief of the Alligator.Column
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kathryn Varn
opinions@alligator.org
“I realize now I needed it to 
remind myself I am not just 
the sum of my professional 
accomplishments and 
failures.”WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
I always take a deep breath 
when people ask why I do what I do. It’s a long story.
Once I got over the child-
hood wants-to-be-everything-
from-an-astronaut-to-a-ballerina phase, I wanted to be a writer. 
I typed pages and pages of at-
tempted ﬁ  rst novels on my moth-er’s faulty typewriter.
I shifted goals from becoming 
the next great American novelist to some-
thing with a more stable paycheck: a jour-
nalist — joke’s on 15-year-old me.
So I stopped staring at a blinking cur-
sor in the middle of another prologue draft 
and started fumbling my way through what 
news really is. I eventually realized I pre-ferred to work with the rough drafts as a copy editor than to write my own, but I was determined to stay in this world.
But there was no one moment when I 
thought, “I am where I want to be. I made the right choice.”
It deﬁ  nitely wasn’t my ﬁ  rst walk into 
the Alligator ofﬁ  ce for open house fresh-man year, which almost scared me away. But that initial fear transformed into sev-
en semesters of my making this ofﬁ  ce my 
home. 
No, I don’t remember the ﬁ  rst time I 
knew — it’s been more like a three-year re-alization that came on slowly and quickly 
at the same time.
It’s in the small things:
I feel it when you ﬁ  nd the perfect word 
to make that headline ﬁ  t in an impossible 
amount of space.
I feel it when you spell a word correctly 
without the red, squiggly line telling you just how wrong you are.
I feel it when I see someone 
pulling a paper out of the racks.
And it’s the big things:
I feel it when everyone is 
working collectively on some-thing “shockingly” few people 
will ﬁ  nd important, but everyone 
feels a weight on their shoulders regardless of how small a role we play.
I feel it when the time of night and the 
number of hours we haven’t slept just don’t matter until the story itself stops us in our tracks.
I feel it when I recognize someone else 
feeling it for the ﬁ  rst time. It’s in the wide eyes seeing what we do, and it’s in the en-thusiasm in something they didn’t know was amazing until that moment.
So yes, I love what I do.
I will always believe what I do is im-
portant. This ﬁ  eld won’t go away; it will 
only evolve to ﬁ  t the times like every other ﬁ  eld does.
There will be a million things I would 
change, but I won’t regret this.
I will have my moments when I know 
I made what everyone else will call a mis-take. I’ll joke and ask, “Why didn’t I be-
come a doctor or any accountant like all 
the other people?” It will probably even come sooner than I think, when I read re-jection letters in the coming weeks or when 
I struggle to pay rent in New York City in 
the coming months. That’s the life I chose when I rejected something practical for something I wanted.
But what my years here at the Alligator 
have taught me is we’re all on this sinking ship together, and we wouldn’t have it any other way.
Kristan Wiggins is a graduating UF 
journalism senior. She is the managing print editor at the Alligator and previously served as editor-in-chief, managing online editor and copy desk chief.The long story of having no regretsColumnIt took me three and a half years to build up 
the courage to step foot in the Alligator’s old, sometimes smelly, but overall homey news-room.
I had been there three or four times before, 
but for no more than 10 or 15 minutes. And I al-ways left with nothing more than a “Contributing Writer” title.
Until ﬁ  nally, a few days before the last semester 
of my senior year, I put my irrational fears aside and decided to give it a shot. My byline was upgraded to “Staff Writer,” and with that I began one of hardest, yet most rewarding, semesters of my college career.
Let me tell you why.When I switched my major to journalism my sophomore 
year, I didn’t know anyone in the J-School, and all I knew about the Alligator was that it was this hip little newspaper 
run by students.
“But it’s cliquey,” I used to hear students say.
I would secretly stare at them in class — the Alligator 
writers and editors. They sat together in the J-School’s large auditorium classes like Applied Fact Finding or Law of Mass 
Communications. They looked like journalists, with their 
cool bags, the girls in patterned dresses or hip, earthy-col-
ored pants and vintage button-downs.
At least I had the thick-rimmed, square-glasses thing go-
ing for me.So, I kept to myself. I was intimidated. Hon-
estly, I was afraid of them. Like, what did I know about journalism? I failed all my AP Style reporting quizzes; I went out too much; and I’ve had, like, one internship.
And, jeez, they put out an entire newspaper 
ﬁ  ve days a week.
“Open house this Friday!” my professors would 
tell me.
Was I ready to step foot in the largest student-
run newspaper in the country?
No. The thought of walking into the newsroom and fac-
ing all those journo-gurus made my hands sweat and my 
stomach churn.  
Three years later, I ﬁ  nd myself writing this column to tell 
you to look your fears in the face, tell them to shove it and 
embrace the unfamiliar.
Ignore those nagging hesitations and irrational assump-
tions.
As soon as I stepped foot in the newsroom, I was wel-
comed into the Alligator family. They made me feel like I was a crucial piece in the newsroom right off the bat. They made 
me feel like I belonged.
That, and they fed me, a lot. After so many staff-bonding 
potlucks, I not only made new friends, but also gained my 
senior 15.
The thing is, the more I worked there, the more time I wanted to spend in that newsroom.
All the story ideas I hadn’t found time to work on came 
alive in that newsroom — a small space jam-packed with computers and the hilarious photos pinned all over the walls, where unidentiﬁ  able cords hang from the ceiling, where at any point a crisis would send someone running through the ofﬁ  ce, where your Facebook could be hacked several times a day, where laughter was probably the single most-heard sound and where incredibly motivated, fun and like-minded journalists come together to put out a paper ﬁ  ve damn days a week.
It wasn’t easy. There were deadlines missed and there 
were mistakes made. But most importantly, there were les-
sons learned and together we made an impact on our com-
munity.
I want to give a special thank you to my editor and the 
rest of the staff, for extending the role of co-worker to friend, 
for always picking up my frantic phone calls, for never mak-
ing me feel incompetent after a mistake was made, for assur-
ing me that I’ll get a job even though I feel it’s unlikely, for feeding me the best homemade baked goods I’ve ever had, for showing me that it’s never too early to start following 
your dreams and for making me 100 percent sure that this is 
exactly what I want to do.
My only regret? Not joining sooner.
Carla Vianna is a graduating UF journalism senior. She 
is a staff writer at the Alligator.What I learned: Challenge yourself, push past the fear, and find a homeColumn
Carla Vianna
opinions@alligator.org
There’s a lot that makes up 
a “college experience.”
For some, it’s all 
about kegs and costume parties. For others, it’s 
all-nighters and brave, new heights of caffeine consumption.
But I’d argue that a quint-
essential college experience is something overlooked by most — working with friends.
I don’t mean working on a group proj-
ect or an arts-and-crafts project, although some elements do apply. The unexpected lesson we encounter in college is learning to draw the line between friends and co-
workers.
When someone hurts you, your friends 
will be there to back you up 100 percent of 
the time. You are always the victim; your version of the story is canon.
That is toxic in a professional environ-
ment.
Co-workers and leadership exist to pro-
pel you forward. They’re the ones who 
can be relied on to give you blunt, con-
structive criticism.
In college, and at a place like the Alli-
gator, that line is blurry or even invisible. We love and support each other, but we 
also need to work every single day to do 
the best job we can.
That means honesty, and that means 
misconstrued comments and hurt feelings, 
because working with friends is hard. It’s 
so hard.
Telling your best friends that some-
thing they did doesn’t measure up sucks. It takes practice to do it without crushing 
both of you. The path to doing it well is 
lined with mistakes.
Considering what’s best for the ulti-
mate goal and what’s best for the mental 
health of a single person is like walking 
on eggshells.
We feel like little kids in borrowed 
clothes, clomping around clownishly in Daddy’s much-too-big shoes, with Mommy’s lipstick smeared hopefully on our faces.
Adulthood is like that all the 
time, I hear.
And in the moments we 
feel the unbalanced weight of 
the boat-sized shoes and the 
smeared grease of the lipstick on our cheeks, we say things with-
out tact. We express our frustration in the most primal of ways. We lash out.
Forgive us, friends. But take what we 
have to say with the best intentions: We support you and believe your future is bright.
The Alligator has taught me many 
things besides how to walk this line — how to cover breaking news, how to be sensitive to victims, how to be a better re-porter and writer. With every step, from 
blogger to editor-in-chief, I learned more.
The best friends and mentors I’ve ever 
met have been in this dingy, smelly, for-
mer frat house with the worst Wi-Fi ever.
They’ve also been my greatest enemies 
during one of the most vulnerable times in my life.
My friends were there to lift me up 
when I did well and put me back on the 
right path when I missed the mark. 
They also cut me down when I thought 
I could do no wrong.
Looking back, the three years I’ve spent 
at the Alligator have been tumultuous to 
say the least. Big stories, damaged friend-ships and competing with the people you love for jobs.
But I wouldn’t trade a moment of it. 
Not even for the cushy 6-ﬁ  gure engineer-ing salary our parents all (not-so-secretly) wish we were earning.
Alex Harris is a graduating UF journal-
ism senior. She is the managing online editor of the Alligator and previously editor-in-chief, university editor and staff writer.Working with friends is tough, worth itColumn
Kristan 
Wiggins
opinions@alligator.org
Alex Harris
opinions@alligator.org
“There will be a million 
things I would change, 
but I won’t regret this."8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
In 2013, 47 percent of high school stu-
dents reported having sexual inter-course. Furthermore, nearly one in two 12th grade students reported having had intercourse in the last three months. You 
and I both know that high school students have sex. Why, then, did the superintendent of Alachua County Public Schools, Dr. Owen Roberts, take a major step back for the sexu-al health of local youth and ban the distribu-tion of condoms on campuses of public high schools?
In the fall, Roberts had a meeting with 
health department staff who informed him 
condoms were being distributed on high 
school campuses. Some nurses, admittedly, were giving out brown paper bags with con-doms and instructions for students who went to their ofﬁ  ce. Advocacy groups were also encouraging safe sex by giving out contra-ceptives. As soon as Roberts became aware of these condom distributions, however, he banned them from campuses. He asserted 
that parents should decide whether their 
children have access to condoms, and the school system should not “cross that line.”
Parents and their children don’t always 
engage in these necessary conversations about sex, though. For teens, sex is much easier done than said. Adolescents grow up using euphemisms for sexual organs, and they rarely feel comfortable discussing sex. Par-ents, on the other hand, often live 
in states of euphoric ignorance. 
Many are unaware of their child-rens’ sex lives, and they avoid po-tentially awkward conversations by settling for the sexual educa-tion their kids receive in school. 
The result is a dangerous game 
of hot potato, played at the expense of lo-cal youth. Schools look to parents to decide 
whether adolescents should have access to 
contraceptives, and parents are often so un-comfortable to have the conversations that lead to safe-sex habits that they often ignore the matter altogether. When neither side takes the initiative, the students suffer.
An article by The Gainesville Sun report-
ed that more 15- to 24-year-old individuals contract STDs each year than any other age 
group in Alachua County. If that isn’t fright-
ening enough, a study from 2011 to 2013 ranked Alachua County with the third-high-est rate of people with gonorrhea, chlamydia and infectious syphilis in Florida. Local high school students are obviously among those who are most at risk of acquir-ing these STDs, and something needs to be done to address that. Changing family dynamics and fa-cilitating conversations about the 
importance of safe sex will take 
much more time, so, until then, we need schools to help students overcome these obstacles.
Right now, free condoms are 
available at the Florida Depart-ment of Health in Alachua County, 
the Gainesville branch of Planned Parent-hood and even Coffee Culture, a local coffee 
shop just north of Gainesville High School. 
Condoms are indeed obtainable, but they’re not as convenient as when they were on stu-dents’ campuses ﬁ  ve days a week. 
If we want future generations to prac-
tice healthy sex habits before it’s too late, we need to provide them with free informa-tion and materials that are easily accessible. Avoiding the concern and expecting adoles-
cents to travel to distant locations and en-
gage in awkward conversations in order to acquire contraception is not in the best inter-est of our upcoming generations.
Roberts said he doesn’t believe it’s the 
responsibility of the school system to give out condoms, and, legally, he’s right. Health education in public schools is not required to go beyond teaching the basics, promoting abstinence and giving students advice. But why would schools choose to limit their ini-
tiatives solely to what they’re responsible for 
on paper? 
If Alachua County Public Schools rein-
troduce the distribution of condoms on high school campuses, they will make an ad-mirable effort to look out for the health of their students and they will display a level of maturity and consciousness that is grati-fying to see among educators. We all know 
high school students have sex. So let’s do the 
right thing by making healthy sexual behav-ior more than a concept taught in a class-room. 
Let’s empower students with easy access 
to contraceptives and make it possible for them to extend what they learn in the class-room to what they’re already doing in the bedroom. Then, we will be actively prevent-
ing adolescents from having to carry the po-
tential consequences of unsafe sex to college and throughout their lives.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry 
freshman. His column appears on Wednes-days.
Please, for sake of teens, bring condoms back to Alachua County high schools Column
Christopher
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Well, we’ve come full circle.
The ﬁ  rst piece I ever had pub-
lished in the Alligator was a col-
umn I penned as a freshman. I vented about being accepted to 
UF as a “Spring admit,” which meant de-laying the college experience until Janu-ary while all of the other freshmen started in June or August. I outlined the struggles, like watching my friends start their college experi-ence while stewing at home with mom and dad and missing out on football season.
I wasn’t thrilled to be a Gator. 
I felt shortchanged, denied the perfect start to the quintessential freshman-year experience.
But I enrolled anyway follow-
ing the advice from staffers at the Miami Herald, where I interned in high school. Some of them were Gators, but referred to themselves as proud Alliga-
tor alumni. Their tenure at the Alligator 
eclipsed the time they spent in the class-room.
That column was published Jan. 27, 
2012. And here we are: three years, 262 Al-ligator bylines, an Alligator managing print editor resume line and a B.S. in journalism later.
My title of columnist morphed into con-
tributing writer, and after a few months of hustle I was brought on board as a staff writer. I covered Student Government and wrote mostly campus news for a year. I felt more rooted in UF’s culture through cover-ing events and interviewing countless stu-dents than I ever did during Preview.
Being on staff absorbed my social and 
academic life. I was slammed with four, 
ﬁ  ve, six story assignments a week, some-
times a few per day. I never hesitated to skip class when duty called. I attended Al-ligator staff parties that allowed us to bond outside work.
More importantly, I had a sense of be-
longing. I had found my friend group, and soon this group of friends became more like 
a supportive family. My editors diligently 
worked with me, editing my stories one-on-one and pushing me to become a better 
journalist. They opened doors to a wealth of opportunities as well as a massive alumni network.
After an eight-month intern-
ship hiatus, I came back home to the Alligator as a managing editor 
for Fall 2014.
I say home because 1105 
W. University Ave. was a place 
where I stress-ate Papa John’s pizza from down the block with my staff on every election day for the past three years. It’s where I 
used the editor’s couch to nap during the day because we stayed up until the wee 
hours reporting on whatever breaking-news 
fate decided to hurl at us. It’s where the staff got together and conspired to throw me a surprise party after accepting a job of-fer from the Tampa Bay Times — by far my favorite Alligator moment.
Technically my time with the Alligator 
ended last semester, but I didn’t have it in me to say goodbye just then. I still felt very 
much connected to the newsroom and all 
its drama.
So, here it goes.Thank you for welcoming me into your 
family. Thank you for providing a haven to share my passion for quality journalism. Thank you for the laughter and the tears.
Thank you for making my three years at 
UF absolutely worth it.
Colleen Wright is a graduating UF jour-
nalism senior. She is a former managing print editor of the Alligator.Late start leads to home found at paperColumn
Saying goodbye isn’t nec-
essarily always hard.
For one thing, it won’t 
be too hard for me to say goodbye to UF when I 
graduate next weekend. I don’t think I can handle one more class without going insane, but more importantly, I know for the most part this university wasn’t a good ﬁ  t for me.
Maybe I should rephrase that to say 
I wasn’t a good ﬁ  t for UF. Not ﬁ  tting in seemed to be a constant throughout my adolescent years, which followed me even after high school was over.
Don’t get me wrong: I’ve enjoyed my 
time in this little college town. I’ve had some great professors in the College of Jour-nalism and Communications and learned a lot, but I wouldn’t call college the “best four years of my life,” nor would I say it’s where I grew as a journalist.
Throughout my time here, my thoughts 
were a constant ﬂ  ow of  “I don’t ﬁ  t in,” “I should’ve gone to x, y or z instead,” and, “Why is everyone so obsessed with football around here?”
That feeling, and the feeling I’m ready 
to graduate and move on to ﬁ  nd a job that I’ll be passionate about (or at least be able to make a living with), even if it’s a little scary, is why saying goodbye to UF won’t be so hard for me.
But this is where the Alligator comes in, 
and suddenly saying goodbye isn’t as easy as it was supposed to be.
I would be a liar if I said some nights at 
the Alligator weren’t difﬁ  cult and frustrat-ing, and during those nights, saying good-bye to this part of my life would feel like a breeze. But there’s so much more to this whirlwind of a newsroom ﬁ  lled with crazy, passionate, talented people that made for some great memories — and no matter how much I want to set the ofﬁ  ce on ﬁ  re some-times, I know some of the good-byes I’ll make will most likely be accompanied by tears.
Even during my ﬁ  rst moments inside 
this run-down ofﬁ  ce, something felt dif-ferent from the rest of my experiences at UF. Even as a timid contributing writer, I felt comfortable. I thought, “Maybe this is where I would ﬁ  t in one day.”
And somehow, I did.From the late nights on copy desk, to the 
naps and talks in the editor’s ofﬁ  ce last se-mester, to the laughs behind closed doors in the opinions/Avenue/freelance ofﬁ  ce, to the words of support and my snarky, sar-castic but loving responses to my colleagues and friends (sorry if you were ever offended — well, not really), I found that place in college where I ﬁ  t in. The place I could call home. The place I could be myself, which honestly would probably be best described as the real-life Daria.
A sense of belonging is nice and all, but 
I got so much more than that the last three semesters at the Alligator, such as knowl-edge, support and friendships I hope to be able to keep beyond this grungy newsroom.
Thanks for everything, y’all: for the 
laughs, the lessons, the opportunities and all of the good times.
Ellen Villafuerte is a graduating UF jour-
nalism senior and the editor of the Avenue.
Saying goodbye to the place I ﬁ  t inColumn
Ellen 
Villafuerte
opinions@alligator.org
Colleen 
Wright
opinions@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015 Page 113
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1131
2
3
4
5
6
789
10
11
12
Universit y of FLW. University AveNewberry Rd
University 
of FloridaNE Waldo Rd.
SW Williston Rd.
Lake
KanapahaGainesville 
Regional
Airport
SE Hawthorne Rd
NW 34th St.NW 39th Ave
NW 23rd AveNE 39th Ave
SW 24th Ave.
SE Williston Rd.Oaks 
MallNW 8th Ave.NW  6th St.
SW 34th St.S Main St.N Main St.
SW 13th StNW 16th Ave.
NE 16th Ave.
NW 43rd St.SE 15th St.E. University Ave
SW 20th Ave.NE 23rd Ave.
N
E
SW
SW 143rd StTower Rd.26CR 
241S
2475
441SW 2nd Ave.121
222
26222
Archer Rd.Archer Rd
SW 23rd Terr.
SW 35th Pl.
SW 27th St.27
3512
3440
3943
4528
1044
1346
1514
5483611
2
4124
381932
31
3330
173
42818
2126
4
2229
25
71
2337
947
20166
1.	 Affiliated	 Pet,	 Pg. 9
2.	 Alachua	 County	Victim	Services,	 Pg. 8
3.	 American	 Red	Cross,	 Pg. 24
4.	 Best	 Jewelry	and	Loan,	 Pg.20
5.	 Children’s	 Home	Society,	 Pg.15
6.	 Copper	 Monkey,	 Pg.24, 32
7.	 Career	 Source,	 Pg.23
8.	 Daily	 Green,	 Pg.31
9.	 Domino’s,	 Pg.8
10.	 Downtown	 Barber	Shop,	 Pg.31
11.	 Ethnic	 Dance	Expression	 Studio,	 Pg.20
12.	 FDLS,	 INC,	 Pg.1413.	 Florida	 Bookstore,	 Pg.13
14.	 Friends	 of	the	Library	Book	Sale,	 Pg.23
15.	 Gainesville	 Regional	 Utilities,	 Pg.22
16.	 Gator	 City,	 Pg.20
17.	 GNC,	 Pg.31
18.	 Goodwill,	 Pg.20
19.	 Grog	 House,	 Pg.24, 32
20.	 GT	Motor	Cars,	 Pg.12
21.	 Hippodrome,	 Pg.9
22. Hurricane	 Alternator	 &	Starter,	 Pg.31
23.	 Inside	 UF,	Pg.4, 5
24.	 Dr.	Bruce	Larrick,	 Pg.4, 15, 23
26
Local 
Living 
GuideWEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11Page 213
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1131
2
3
4
5
6
789
10
11
12
Universit y of FLW. University AveNewberry Rd
U
niv
ersit
 y of FL
University 
of FloridaNE Waldo Rd.
SW Williston Rd.Lake
KanapahaGainesville 
Regional
Airport
SE Hawthorne Rd
NW 34th St.NW 39th Ave
NW 23rd AveNE 39th Ave
SW 24th Ave.
SE Williston Rd.Oaks 
MallNW 8th Ave.NW  6th St.
SW 34th St.S Main St.N Main St.
SW 13th StNW 16th Ave.
NE 16th Ave.
NW 43rd St.SE 15th St.E. University Ave
SW 20th Ave.NE 23rd Ave.
N
E
SW
SW 143rd StTower Rd.26CR 
241S
2475
441SW 2nd Ave.121
222
26222
Archer Rd.Archer Rd
SW 23rd Terr.
SW 35th Pl.
SW 27th St.27
3512
3440
3943
4528
1044
1346
1514
5483611
2
4124
381932
31
3330
173
42818
2126
4
2229
25
71
2337
947
20166
25. Lexington Crossing, Pg.8, 16, 17
26. Lifesouth, Pg.20
27. Leonardo’s of Millhopper, Pg.4
28. Midtown Jewelry & Loans, Pg.15
29. OP Petsnip, Pg.15
30. Oxford Manor, Pg.3, 16, 17
31. Paddiwhack, Pg.23
32. Red Onion Neighborhood Grill, Pg.23
33. Re-T ech, Pg.4
34. SNAP , Pg.11
35. Sports Marketing, Pg.9
36.	 Sunflower	 Health	Foods,	 Pg.2537.	 UF	Alumni	Association,	 Pg.8
38. UF	University	 Athletic	Association,	 Pg.19, 25
39.	 UF	College	of	Dentristry,	 Pg.23
40.	 UF	Student	Health	Care	Center,	 Pg.14
41.	 UF	Gator	Well	Health	Promotions,	 Pg.12
42.	 UF	Mail	&	Document	 Center,	 Pg.21
43.	 University	 House,	 Pg.8
44. Urban Thread, Pg.25
45.	 Visit	 Gainesville,	 Pg. 2
46.	 The	 Wooly,	 Pg.20
47. Yoga Connection, Pg.21
48. :08, Pg.2412   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
After a challenging two semesters 
for Santa Fe College’s Student Sen-
ate and Student Government, a new chapter for the chamber began last week.
Senate swore in a new leader-
ship team and said goodbye to its old one. Tears were shed in the Sen-ate president election that night after Patriel Stapleton was unexpectedly nominated and then elected by a landslide.When her predecessor Jeremy 
Pierce passed her the gavel, it marked the end of a journey that saw Senate struggle to address some issues.
“It’s been a wild 
ride,” said Benjamin Myers, the director of 
internal affairs.
Some senators 
trace the start of Sen-
ate’s struggles to a no-conﬁ  dence vote last semester against Pierce — a move that suggested senators did not believe he was ﬁ  t to hold his posi-tion. But former Student Body Presi-dent Austin Browning thinks there was more to Senate’s difﬁ  culties.
“I think it held Senate back, but I 
don’t think that’s the only thing that held Senate back,” Browning said.
While Pierce re-
ceived ﬂ  ack for report-edly threatening to 
remove senators from 
their positions, former Senate President pro-
tempore Dalton King praised Pierce for his hard work and passion.
“He was dedicated (and) very 
motivated,” King said.
While Pierce’s passion helped 
move business along in Senate, King said, he also thinks it was part of the reason Pierce faced opposition.
While still in ofﬁ  ce, Pierce 
stressed he wasn’t a yes-man and made sure to enforce rules. King said he thinks some senators took issue with this, which he thinks led to the 
criticism Pierce faced.
Representing students was an-
other issue, Sen. Connor Levine said, 
and is something he and other sena-tors want to improve on.
“We lost sight of our main pur-
pose and our goals,” Levine said. “And instead of representing the stu-dents, we put a lot of effort to inter-nal power struggles.”
While Senate faced difﬁ  culties, it 
also passed numerous bills and reso-lutions, including an amendment updating rule 2.8 to protect students from discrimination, regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation.
With Summer A beginning in just 
a few weeks, Levine said he thinks that while the issues Senate has faced held it back for a while, it will help Senate in the long run.
“With each hurdle we overcome 
we grow a little bit,” he said, “allow-ing us to serve the students of Santa Fe a little bit more effectively.”
As new SFC oﬃ   cers begin, a look back at year’s progress
SANTA FEWEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
MOVING OUT      GIVING BACK
T erraCycle Children’s Home 
Society of FloridaJunior League 
of GainesvilleSalvation Army 
of Gainesville
PROVIDES:OFFERS:PROVIDES:NEEDS: NEEDS: NEEDS:
NEEDS:
Services for 
veterans 
and their 
familiesEnergy and 
financial 
assistance, 
shelters, meals 
& aftercare 
430 N. Main St.
639 E. University Ave.UF Office of
Sustainability 352-222-2256
55 NW 23rd Ave. 710 N. Main St. Families,    
women 
& children in crisis 
vouchers to use for 
needed itemsGOAL:
T o eliminate 
the idea of wasteTwin-sized linens, towels, leftover 
cleaning supplies, 
clothes (especially 
professional), paper 
towels, toilet paper, 
books, TVs & DVDsNEEDS:
Partnered with
LOCATIONS:LOCATION:
LOCATION:For more info call:Brita filters, empty 
pens, cigarette 
butts, toothpaste 
tubes, toothbrushes, 
E-waste, cereal bags, 
personal care & 
beauty products.Typically clothing
 & small furniture
*Due to state regulation, 
matresses are NOT accepted. *
 Serves an average of 100 
people every dayVETSPACE INC.
Furniture, 
toys, clothes 
& books
GIVES:VOLUNTEER
YOU
How to 
HelpEverything
 
SVolunteers, 
furniture, Gator 
gear & clothes for 
special events/
themed parties 
In-home mental 
health therapy, 
free adoption 
finalization & 
low prices to empower 
families on low 
incomes&
Reported by Giuseppe Sabella / Graphic by Amy Weiss14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Su Mendez, an activist with the National Organization for Women and National Women’s Liberation, 
holds a sign and waves at passing vehicles at an abortion-rights protest on West University Avenue and 13th Street on Tuesday.
LOCAL
By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
Horns blared and engines 
revved Tuesday night on the cor-
ner of 13th Street and West Uni-
versity Avenue while protesters 
clustered on the corner of campus cheered.
The group gathered to  protest 
a Senate bill that would require women to go through a 24-hour waiting period before getting an abortion.
The protest, which was co-
sponsored by the National Orga-nization for Women and National Women’s Liberation, lasted from 5 to about 6:45 p.m. 
At its peak, about 40 people 
stood at the intersection holding signs with slogans like “abortion and miscarriage are not crimes” and “stand up for women’s 
rights!”
“There’s no medical reason to 
have a 24-hour waiting period,” 
said Amy Coenen, an NWL or-
ganizer. “It forces a woman to 
spend more time on a procedure that takes 10 minutes and is safer than childbirth.”The protesters were also dem-
onstrating to speak out against the arrests of women who had or were seeking abortions.
“A lot of these women who 
have been arrested didn’t have 
access to abortion through tra-
ditional means,” Coenen said. “What the Florida Legislature is doing is just part of the national 
trend to make it harder for wom-
en to have abortions.”
Lucia Soto, a 23-year-old UF 
sociology senior, was one of the protesters and said the bill, SB 
724, is just one in a series of at-
tacks against women’s bodies.
“The way I see it is it’s a very 
good way to erode Roe v. Wade,” 
Soto said. “It doesn’t seem so ob-
vious that these things are going on, but they’re slowly chipping away at it.”
NWL will hold a strategy meet-
ing at 6:30 p.m. May 7 at 14 E. University Ave. near University Club, said Candi Churchill, an NWL organizer.
“(Change is) not going to hap-
pen because we’re on the street corner one day,” she said. “We have to build a movement.”Women’s rights group protests bill regulating abortion
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Students in need of food or bath-
room supplies can get them for free 
as the school year comes to an end.
UF has established a pantry for 
students in need, and donations are being encouraged as students pre-pare to leave for Summer Break, said Susan Webster, a UF student and District A senator.
The UF international studies and 
business junior said she got the idea for the pantry while she campaigned for Swamp Party last Fall. She asked students what they wanted to see change. One student told her about the struggle to ﬁ  nd a next meal.
“There’s a percentage of students 
who don’t know when their next 
meal will be,” Webster, 21, said.
She said the pantry will open this 
summer. She’s working with the UF 
Division of Student Affairs, the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, UF Student Government and the Ofﬁ  ce of the Senior Vice President to collect nonperishable food items such as canned goods, 
unopened bathroom supplies, plastic 
bags, paper bags and reusable bags.
The food pantry will be located 
at 564 Newell Drive, Building 476, which is near McCarty Hall and Mar-ston Science Library, wrote Tanja Philhower, associate vice president of UF Student Affairs, in an email.  
Items can be dropped off at 
Southwest Recreation Center on Fri-day and May 1 from 7 to 9 a.m. and from 1 to 4 p.m. 
For drop-off locations, check out 
this story on alligator.org.
Campus pantry asks for donations for students in need WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
TREND
By Jaclyn DeBonis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Madison Dorman was 16 years old when 
she ﬁ  rst traveled to Chile.
She was there to help build a homeless 
shelter and teach English.
Two years later, she traveled to Thailand to 
work in both a woman’s shelter and an AIDS 
orphanage. Now a 21-year-old UF sustainabil-ity and the built environment junior, she said sustainability and giving back to society are two of her passions in life.
Dorman is not alone in her desire to give 
back. Several studies of her generation, known as Generation Y, or Millennials, indicate it is a group of social activists: They donate time, sup-
port and buying power to organizations and 
causes that ﬁ  t into their worldview. And their worldview? Social media has caused it to grow.
“I think it’s really important to be conscious 
of our actions today — to see the way that we are going to impact our future generations,” Dorman said.
Currently the generation of people born be-
tween 1980 and the 2000s is in the middle of its 
coming-of-age process.
In a study from the advertising agency 
TBWA and advocacy journalism website TakePart, 69 percent of young Americans con-
sider themselves to be social activists: people who use their lives to support a moral cause.
According to the Pew Research Center, gen-
erations have personalities, and the Millennial generation’s personality is “conﬁ  dent, self-ex-pressive, liberal, upbeat and open to change.” As it ages, the generation is bringing a shift in values to both the economy and society.
A group that size has the most buying 
power the economy has ever seen. According to Forbes Magazine, American Millennials are 
predicted to spend $200 billion each year by 
2017 and about $10 trillion over the course of their lifetimes.
This generation has the power to shape the 
marketplace through its purchases.
And even though older generations felt 
more distrust toward corporations, Bobby Jones, the vice president of Octagon Access and an expert in marketing toward Millennials, 
said the members of the generation see these 
entities as being potential partners in solving problems in the world.
“I think that they do believe and expect that 
brands, in particular, do have the power to help change some of the issues of the world,” he said.
UF student Taylor Rapaport said from a young age, her parents instilled the idea of giv-ing back through her money and time.
The 22-year-old psychology and public 
health senior said she frequents local markets, craft fairs and farmers markets, where her pur-chases directly support local businesses.
“I deﬁ  nitely think that people have a more 
global mindset,” she said. “I don’t think that the generations before us were so immersed in what was going on in the world. We have technology that lets us see people suffering all across the world.”
The Internet has allowed the Millennial 
generation to share content and experiences on a global scale. It’s also given them a platform to voice their opinions to mass audiences.
Andy Hopson, executive director of The 
Agency, a strategic communication agency in UF’s College of Journalism and Communica-tions that focuses on marketing to Millenni-als, said members of Generation Y tend to buy 
from companies that genuinely stand for some-
thing greater than merely selling products.
He said he sees most brands have a conver-
sation about their values, which allows them to engage Millennials, a generation that search-es for companies they ﬁ  nd to be genuine.  
“They (Millennials) live their lives in the 
open,” he said, “and they don’t trust people that aren’t transparent because they are trans-parent.”
As Millennials are becoming a part of the 
workforce themselves, some are becoming so-cial entrepreneurs and starting companies with social responsibility built into their core values.
“Eighty percent of this generation wants a 
job that doesn’t just pay the bills, but also has a purpose that matches their passions,” Jones said.  
From its inception, David Simnick’s com-
pany, SoapBox Soaps, started with a mission 
in mind. Simnick said in 2010 he was working 
as a subcontractor for the U.S. Agency for In-ternational Development when he had the idea of starting a social-mission company that helps with water sanitation and hygiene projects around the world.   
“Instead of us donating from the United 
States to country X, we would much rather   ... employ the local soap maker to make that 
soap, instead of us sending over soap from the 
United States, which might actually do more harm than good,” he said.
As a Millennial himself, Simnick said he 
thinks his generation cares more about where products are coming from.
“Millennials care deeply about authentic-
ity,” he said, “and they want to give back.”
Millennials give back through technology, buying power16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   17
18   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
1
1312111098765432
UF
UF
UF
      NW 39th Ave.
NW 16th Ave. NW 23rd Ave. 
NW 8th Ave. 
SW 2nd Ave.SW 75th St. 
NW 43rd St. 
Main St. 
SE  Williston Rd. Depot Ave.
SW 35th Pl.
SW 27th St.SW 23rd Terr.
NE Waldo Rd. Archer Rd.
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
Windmeadows Blvd.
             SW 62nd Blvd.                                  W. Newberry Rd. W University Ave. SW 34th St. 
       SW 20 
 th Ave.
Hull Rd.
SW 13th St. SE 16th Ave.
75INTERSTATENW 83rd St. 
15 2
64
83
73205 NW 83rd St
1015 NW 21st Ave.3301 SW 13th St
207 SE 2nd Ave. #132330 SW Williston Rd.
6
137
24
5
8
4000 SW 37th Blvd. 
3
1216 NW 2nd Ave.
 303 NW 17th St.
1
9     
2777 SW Archer Rd.
2701 SW 13th St
3700 SW 27th St 725 NW 13th St
 3700 SW 27th St
10
1414
3000 SW 35th Place
11
1515
3000 SW 35th Place
12
3000 SW 35th Place1310
12119WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
LOCAL
By Samantha Gutman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Douglas Tam plans to hang his 
navy -blue and yellow Grand Trunk 
hammock Friday, just like he al-
ways does when he wants to relax.
This Friday, however, about 
2,000 other UF students are expect-
ed to hang out with him at the first 
End of Year Hammock Party from 
noon to 5 p.m. at Westside Park, lo-cated at 1001 NW 34th St.
Tam, a 20-year-old UF biology 
junior, said he thought about creat-
ing the event over Spring Break. He 
was hooked on hammocking after going on a Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park camping trip with friends 
a year and a half ago.
He said the party was planned 
for the second reading day because 
most people would still be in town, but they wouldn’t be overloaded with exams yet.
There won’t be a DJ or musical 
performance, but students are wel-come to bring their own speakers.
“We wanted to keep it simple,” 
he said.
It was originally planned for the 
front of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, but he moved it as the event grew larger.
“I expected maybe 80 to 100 peo-
ple to bring hammocks and show up, but by the third day we had over 300 people RSVP,” he said.
Alexandra Pritchett, a UF busi-
ness junior, said she joined the event on Facebook as soon as she saw it. She said she thought it 
would be a fun way to take a break 
from studying and chill out before finals week.
“And there’s no pressure to dress 
up or put makeup on,” Pritchett, 21, said. “You can just relax and be with your friends.”
The event now has multiple 
sponsors, including Brasington’s 
Adventure Outfitters, which donat-
ed money toward event T-shirts.
All proceeds from the T-shirts 
will go toward funding the official 
Hammock Club, which Tam said he 
plans to start in the Fall.Hammock 
hangout Friday to start new UF club
“I expected maybe 80 to 100 
people to bring hammocks 
and show up, but by the third 
day we had over 300 people 
RSVP.”
Douglas T am
UF biology junior20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
By Ariella Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local business owners will host a car show Sat-
urday to benefit veterans.
The fourth annual Hot Rodding for Heroes 
Classic Auto Tour and Show will raise money for 
the Veteran’s Bridge Scholarship, which is avail-
able to veterans enrolled at Santa Fe College. The 
free show is from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Haile Planta-tion Village Center, and there will be about 250 classic and modern cars. The event’s goal is to raise about $15,000 through donations and raffles, said John Hoehn, one of the founders.
A group of five small-business owners came up 
with the idea because they wanted to raise money for a cause that paired well with a love of vintage 
cars, Hoehn said. 
The fund provides scholarships to former ser-
vice members so they can begin classes at Santa 
Fe right when the semester starts — regardless of whether their GI Bill money has come in yet.
Hoehn, the owner of Affordable Chiropractic, 
said many veterans’ charities are national, and they wanted the funds to stay in the community.
As a lifelong Gainesville resident, he wanted 
the money to help local veterans at a local school. All money raised through donations will go to-ward the scholarship fund, he said.
“It’s been wonderful watching this grow,” he 
said, “and I hope it’ll continue to grow.”
Hoehn said the transition to civilian life can be 
financially and mentally difficult for veterans. He said he hopes the event helps ease both worries.
Sandra Torres-Pintos, the coordinator of vet-
erans affairs at Santa Fe, said the loss of income 
from the military is often a problem for return-
ing service members. GI benefits can take up to 40 days for approval and even longer to be dis-persed, she said. This could conflict with school payments, but scholarships help to close the gap.
She said some returning service members are 
focused on school, but they may not know how to ask for help. That’s where her office comes in to help them apply for financial aid and find housing.
Many veterans have been out of the classroom 
for a while, which can make the transition harder, she said. The smaller class sizes at Santa Fe of-fer more individualized attention. Many veterans hope to transfer to UF, and the scholarship helps guarantee financial security. 
Hoehn agreed, adding that it’s important to 
honor veterans while still appreciating a classic Camaro.Hot Rodding for Heroes car 
show to help student veteransCAMPUS
By Cresonia Hsieh
Alligator Contributing Writer
Forget about the Google Glass, Ap-
ple Watch or 3-D TV: UF students are 
coming up with different technology entirely.
Two human-centered computing 
doctoral students of the Human Experi-ence Research Lab at UF, Marvin Andu-jar and Chris Crawford, are researching the interaction between advanced tech-nology and humans.
The following is a sampling of some 
of the tools the Human Experience Re-search Lab is using:
Video Game Violence Project
Andujar, 25, is actively involved 
in The Video Game Violence Project, 
which monitors players’ brain waves while playing violent video games in order to track when and why video gamers become aggressive.
The hope is that someday the group 
will create a product that will reduce levels of aggression in gamers, and in turn, prevent violent tendencies.
Humanoid and Human Interac-
tion
Crawford, 25, is researching peo-
ple’s reactions to using humanoids in 
the workplace. 
UF is specifically using a robot man-
ufactured by Aldebaran, a company 
that makes companion robots.
The humanoid’s big blue eyes, small 
mouth and rounded features make it more approachable to humans than earlier humanoid models.
The robot’s cameras, microphones 
and touch sensors also allow it to inter-act with humans by listening, talking and moving.
The UF lab is currently still in the 
process of naming the roughly 20-inch robot.
Coming UpIn the future, the research lab will 
merge science and art to allow users to 
paint images using their brain.UF tech researchers look 
into gaming, humanoidsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   21
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Out for a Stroll
Ian Pastor, a 22-year-old UF computer science senior, walks Flash, a 
2-month-old corgi, near the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
ghall@alligator.org
When Claire Dunlap went into cardiac arrest af-
ter a softball game in high school, she needed the 
shock of an automated external deﬁ  brillator, or AED, 
to save her life.
The GatorSavers president is collaborating with 
GatorCPR and the university to host a class teaching 
CPR and how to use automated external deﬁ  brilla-
tors, or AEDs, on Saturday in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom.
The event costs $5.
Dunlap, a UF advertising senior, said the event is 
the organization’s largest class of the year. The goal 
is to certify 600 people in CPR with AED training.
“Telling my story, people realize that cardiac ar-
rest can happen to anyone at any time,” the 21-year-
old wrote in an email. “It is so important for everyone to know CPR and how to use an AED just in case 
something like this ever happened.”
Dunlap said the organization travels to local 
schools and teaches students the importance of being trained in life-saving techniques such as CPR.
She is working with GatorCPR to broaden the 
reach of CPR instruction.
Clay Gibbons, a co-owner of GatorCPR, said the 
charge covers the cost of the certiﬁ  cation and the UF facilities rental.
He said the organization teaches free classes 
across Florida. Although the class is geared toward UF students, Gibbons said he hopes the event draws people from across Gainesville.
“When you have that volume of people for that 
little cost,” Gibbons said, “you can really make a dif-ference.”
There are three sessions: 9:30 to 11:30 a.m., noon 
to 2 p.m. and 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. Students can register in advance at gatorsavers.org or at the event. $5 CPR, AED training Saturday
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man Monday 
after he stole a ladder and broke into his former apartment.
At about 10:30 a.m., John Roxby, 
46, was evicted from his unit in Cam-pus Walk Apartments, located at 914 SW Eighth Ave., according to a police report. Just after 9 p.m., he rode his bicycle back to the apartment com-plex. Despite the “no trespassing” signs, he then entered the nearby Tuscana Luxury Apartments construction site and stole a ladder.
A resident of Campus Walk saw Roxby lean the 
ladder against the east side of the Campus Walk apartment building. The resident told police Roxby took his shirt off and wrapped it around an un-known object before using the object to break a window. However, when he looked inside, Roxby 
said he realized he had the wrong apartment, ac-
cording to the report.
He then broke the back window of the right 
apartment, cutting his hand in the process. The resident saw him climb down, throw the ladder 
over the fence of the construction site and then re-
enter his old apartment through the 
front door, according to the report.
Ofﬁ  cers stopped Roxby as he left 
the apartment a second time, accord-
ing to the report. He told police he 
lived there for six years before he fell 
on bad luck and had to leave. Roxby 
refused to answer any other questions.
Police arrested Roxby on charges of burglary of 
both occupied and unoccupied homes, trespassing 
and petit theft. 
Ofﬁ  cers took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remained as of press time in lieu of a 
$15,000 bond.Police: Man tries to break into 
old apartment, gets wrong one
CRIME22   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
LOCAL
By Dana Hatchett
Alligator Contributing Writer
In light of Sexual Assault Awareness Month, Gainesville 
law enforcement agencies are trying to get a domestic violence 
grant application passed.  
The Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Cen-
ter, which operates under Gainesville Police, hopes that, if passed, the grant could help those who have been abused and provide them with the necessary resources to help improve their lives.
The request for the grant was presented at the March 19 
City Commission meeting.
Jeanne-Marie Ritter, a victim advocate counselor for the 
victim and rape center, said the grant will provide up to $450,000 for the next three years to the center.
The money will help fund the salaries of victim advocates, 
event coordinators, officer trainings and other community partners.
It would allow for an immediate follow-up with the vic-
tim regarding safety services, Ritter said. This specific grant 
would focus on providing culturally sensitive services to all 
people, including men, women, minorities and the LGBTQ+ 
community.
But in order to go into effect, the grant must be passed 
by the U.S. Department of Justice Office on Violence Against 
Women.
Laura Kalt, director of the crisis center, said it is pertinent 
the grant is approved.
“We have hundreds of citizens that use these services ev-
ery year,” she said. “It’s not something that someone knows (about) until they get affected by the crime.”
The final decision to approve this grant will be made in 
September, Ritter said.
“Without grants, it’s hard to exist and citizens would not be 
able to utilize these services,” Kalt said. “These services give 
victims the guidance to make changes and move forward.”City applies for domestic violence grant to help victims
Murder
Forcible RapeForcible FondlingAggravated AssaultAggravated Stalking
Simple Assault
Threat/IntimidationStalking
Alachua County Police Deptarment UFPD Florida Highway PatrolGPD Alachua County Sherrifs Office
4 5499
162
8 211 1154493
18 1 6 2
48
12
412
25 1There is inherent power in the written 
word, and I’ve come to realize the im-pact. I need not look any further than the handmade card that sits on the desk in my room, written to me nearly two 
years ago. The cover reads: “congrats on quit-ting the Alligator,” in bold letters. That’s how excited I was to leave this newspaper after Summer 2013. It was an occasion warranting celebration. It was before I understood the val-ue of written words.
I was half-in-half out most of that sum-
mer and selﬁ  sh. I planned the Alligator to be a three-month stopover to see if I actually liked 
to write. I was unwilling to pay my dues to 
an institution I didn’t respect and a paper I thought was beneath me.
Copy editing was a chore I didn’t take seri-
ously on nights I was paid to do so. Any er-rors in the paper that summer were probably on me. Then, just when I thought I was out, they pulled me back in last summer. Or, more accurately, I fell back in.
After parting ways with GatorCountry.com, 
I called former sports editor Jonathan Czupryn and asked him if he “needed any help.” I had no place to write and needed a home. Hum-bled, I slinked back into the ofﬁ  ce I openly put down after I ﬁ  rst left. Serving as Jon’s assis-tant, we made a paper twice a week for three months. I began to feel invested in this musty hundred-year-old ofﬁ  ce and the words we produced.
I had no idea at the start, but 
so began the greatest professional 
year of my young life.
On a journalistic level, my 
growth has been unreal because I 
work with the best student journal-ists this college has to offer. I sat with the Associated Press’ Mark Long last month at the NCAA Tournament. He’s an Alligator alum and he was telling me — or more accurately bragging to me — about 
his staff. He boasted about where they ended 
up: some at ESPN, some Sports Illustrated, the highest heights this profession offers. That day he said something that stuck with me: “I’ll put my staff up with anyone’s.”
I am proud to say that one day I’ll put the 
alligatorSports staff I worked with up next to Mark’s, and we’ll win. Morgan Moriarty, the girl who knows more about football than you. 
Does that intimidate you? Good. Jon, my man 
who’s already been published in the New York Times. Jordan McPherson, the wonderkid I can never say enough about. The sky is the limit for all of us, and I can’t wait to see what all four of us will do. 
We’ve criss-crossed the southeast as a group stuffed in a car eight and 10 hours at a time, from Morgan’s speeding ticket 45 minutes into the drive to Media Days to the question-able hotels we shared many times. 
We had lunch Saturday, the ﬁ  rst 
time all four of us had been together since Jon graduated in December. We ate pizza, laughing about how frustrating it is to land a job and all the fun we had covering the football 
team. They’re my friends, and I count myself lucky to have those relationships. I’m proud of what we did, not only those four but our entire 
team of fact checkers and beat writers. People 
have told me over the last few months that our sports section has been as good as they’ve seen in years. That’s an awesome feeling.
It was never just about me, and I think in 
the end that’s what I’ve learned in my sec-ond stint at the best student newspaper in the country. I’ve learned as much through my failure covering the Treon Harris investigation 
as I have from staying up 24 hours straight to 
chronicle the beginning of the SEC Network, my longform look at Billy Donovan’s career and columns about anything and everything.
This is the last time my byline and my writ-
ten words will ever appear in this newspaper. Typing that is sobering because it really means it’s over. A position covering UF athletics is one of the most important in sports journal-ism and it has been an honor to do it alongside talented and wonderful co-workers. But ﬁ  nally it’s been an honor to do it for you, the reader.
My long-running joke in the ofﬁ  ce is “the 
internet doesn’t read the newspaper,” a nod to the current state of journalism. But there is an unbelievably romantic quality to seeing my words in a printed newspaper — this printed newspaper. I’ll miss that. To anyone who ever reached into an orange rack and grabbed a pa-per: thank you. To anyone who’s ever clicked on a story or emailed me with a suggestion or 
even a complaint: thank you. Thank you for 
caring in your own little way about something that has made such an impact in my life.
The ﬁ  rst time I left the Alligator, I was hap-
py. This time, it’s bittersweet. I’ll always long for what we had here on the pages Johnson’s Journal and everything else I wrote was print-ed on, the pieces that are always too long for Jordan’s inch count, just like this one.
It’s time to write words somewhere else, so 
now with all the respect and love I have in my heart, I say goodbye for the second time. No cards this go around, no celebration, just all the thankfulness I can muster about getting a second chance here; I don’t know where I’d be as a man or as a writer without it.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   23
Richard 
Johnson
twitter: @RagjUFJohnson’s Journal comes to a close as staﬀ  er, columnist turns a new pageBy Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Kirsti Merritt can’t stop smiling.
Whether she’s making the game-
winning play or getting hit by a pitch, she’s always smiling.
But behind that smile lies an 
emotional player, a quiet leader who lives in the moment and seizes every opportunity that comes her way.
“I wear a lot of whatever I do on 
my face,” Merritt said. “After I miss an opportunity or something … you can see on my face just the disap-
pointment. But just like whenever I 
make those plays, you can just see that I really try to make the most of it.”
Merritt’s softball career starts in 
Lake Panasoffkee, Florida. It’s un-derstandable if you’ve never heard 
of it.
It’s a town in Sumter County 
that, according to the 2010 United 
States census, has about 3,500 peo-ple living in it.“Everybody knows everybody,” 
she said.
But to Merritt, it’s the place she’s 
always called home.
There’s not a lot to do around 
Lake Panasoffkee, Merritt said, but sports have always been there to bring some noise to such a quiet town. 
And now that she’s just an hour’s 
drive from Gainesville as part of UF’s softball team, Merritt has seen more than her fair share of familiar faces at Florida’s home games.
Those who watched her grow up take pride in watching one of their own enjoy success as a Gator.
“I have old coaches, old high 
school teachers that still come to games,” Merritt said. “It’s a really big thing trying to make your mark being in such a small place. They take pride in it that she came from South Sumter. We can do big things 
even though we’re small.”
Two of those people who try to 
make it to each game are Merritt’s 
mom and grandmother. Merritt’s mom, Kelly Goodwin, isn’t able to make it to each game during the season, but her grandmother, Karen Kinley, is always in the stands.
Kinley sits in the same spot 
each game, observing the team and watching Merritt closely. 
“She works so hard at everything 
she does and she has since she’s been real little,” Kinley said. “She likes to win and she is a winner.”
Both Merritt’s grandmother and 
her mother have been instrumental in her life. 
Merritt said she probably 
wouldn’t be where she is without those two in her life. 
“They are two of my favorite 
people in the whole world,” Merritt said. “My grandma, she is just the person that I know is always there and she loves me. I couldn’t imagine not having those two growing up. It 
would’ve been totally different.”
Recruiting is different in softball 
than in other sports. 
Travel ball is the primary method 
of exposure and development for 
those wanting to play at the colle-giate level.  
It allows players to go against the 
best of the best in their age groups. And it was no different for Merritt, who started playing travel ball when 
she was still in elementary school.
One of the teams she played for 
was the Gold Coast Hurricanes un-der the guidance of coach Marty 
Cooper.
“When Kirsti came to us, she 
ended up playing against some of the top teams in the country, because of our extensive traveling and who we played and where we played,” Coo-per said. “So it deﬁ  nitely helped her prepare for the college challenge.”
It was Cooper who tagged the 
young Merritt with her ﬁ  rst nick-name: ‘Thirsty Kirsti’, a name that served the playful purpose of help-ing those around her correctly pro-nounce her unique name. 
But all jokes aside, Cooper said 
Merritt was a consummate leader on the team and one that players would 
follow.
“She was a great person to coach, 
a great girl,” Cooper said. “She al-
ways got along with everybody.”
Even after all the travel tourna-
ments and late car rides home, nu-merous coaches never saw Merritt play because of her small town up-bringing. 
Luckily for UF coach Tim Wal-
ton, he didn’t have to scout her from afar. 
Walton was able to watch the fu-
ture Gator play on a consistent basis. 
“It was always nice to see him at 
the games,” Merritt said. “Usually incognito, he’s in usually a Hawai-ian shirt or something. I’d have to try to search him out.”
Walton traveled to Gold Coast’s 
games and practices trying to ﬁ  gure 
out just what he had in Merritt. 
It didn’t take long for him to real-
ize she was a competitor.
“You want her on your team, I 
can tell you that,” Walton said. “If 
you’re playing checkers, or kickball, 
or anything that involves a win-
ner or loser, you want her on your team.”24   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
Marley Boerema / Alligator
UF junior outfielder Kirsti Merritt smiles as she goes up for an at-bat during Florida’s 2-1 win 
against North Florida on April 1 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
A reason to smile: Gators softball junior living out her dream
SEE KIRSTI,  PAGE 24She always wanted to play for UF
      
            WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   25
Merritt’s personality gels with the 
team and she even ﬁ  nds the time 
to crack jokes and imitate differ-ent voices and keep herself and the team loose.
“She’s goofy and fun, but still 
pleasant to be around a lot,” Walton said. “She travels well, she’s very little maintenance as a person off the 
ﬁ  eld, that’s for sure.”
Like any other freshman transi-
tioning to college, Merritt faced her 
own challenges.
She had to ﬁ  gure out how to bal-
ance a higher level of competition 
on the softball ﬁ  eld as well as learn-
ing to manage her studies. Now a junior, softball had always 
come easy for Merritt, but college ball meant she had to work harder than ever before.
And that started with adjusting to 
a new position. When she arrived on campus, Walton eventually moved Merritt, an inﬁ  elder by trade, to cen-ter ﬁ  eld because of her strong arm. 
It’s been two years and she’s yet 
to give up the position. In 146 career games, she’s com-
mitted just four errors on defense.
“Luckily it was an easy transition 
for me,” Merritt said. “It was just an easy ﬁ  t. I kind of just fell into it. I also like to be the leader, so just be-ing out in center it was really good for me.”
But she’s far from a one-trick 
pony. Merritt is also one of Florida’s 
strongest hitters. 
Entering her junior season, she 
had a .291 career batting average 
and 19 home runs. For a player list-ed at 5-foot-4, the amount of power that comes from her body frame has impressed Walton throughout the years he’s seen her play.
“I saw her hit many home runs 
at a young age,” Walton said. “Even though she was little, she was get-ting after it.”
Merritt has also shown up in 
key moments. In Game 3 of the 2014 NCAA Super Regional against Washington, she hit a walkoff home run to send Florida to the Women’s College World Series.
In Game 2 of the 2014 champion-
ship series against Alabama, Merritt hit a three-run home run to help seal Florida’s ﬁ  rst national title.
This season, she’s added eight 
more home runs to her career total.
But there is one thing that has 
stood out if you look at Merritt’s statistics: the number of times she’s 
been hit by a pitch. 
Merritt’s been plunked an as-
tounding 28 times in 47 games this 
season, which leads the nation and is eight more than UF’s single season record set by Briana Little in 2013.
She has also obliterated the ca-
reer hit-by-pitch record, having been hit 50 times through two and a half 
years.
As a whole, the team has been 
hit 93 times in the batters box this 
season, which leads the Southeast-ern Conference by 32.
“It never gets old, we love hit by 
pitches,” Merritt said. “Coach loves it. We have this deal with coach, if we get hit by pitches we get a Re-
ese’s Big Cup and if we jump out of 
the way he gets the Big Cup.”
So why is Merritt always smiling?
To those who know her best, 
there are multiple reasons to the contagious grin.   
“It’s part of her DNA, it’s part of 
her makeup, it’s part of what makes her tick,” Walton said. “It’s kind of 
her nervous energy. … She can look 
at you with a straight face and then she kind of has a full smile, kind of like the evil Joker might have.”
Maybe Merritt smiles because 
she’s been a part of a softball pro-gram that has been a powerhouse since she came in 2013.  
Merritt knew she wanted to go 
to Florida, even if she had to be a walk-on.  
Or maybe the answer is just sim-
ple: she’s just happy that she’s from a small town and has the support of everyone around her.
She just doesn’t notice that she’s 
smiling all the time.
“It’s not fake or anything. It liter-
ally is I don’t know that I’m doing it,” Merritt said. 
“I’ll be talking to you and I’ll 
have no idea that it’s coming out. Or I’ll be out in the ﬁ  eld and I’ll have no idea that I’m smiling.”KIRSTI,  from pg 24Merritt provides Florida with talent on both ofense and defense
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Pictured is a sign that shows how many times UF softball batters have been hit by pitches. Each time a 
player is hit by a pitch, she gets a Reese’s Big Cup, said junior Kirsti Merritt, who has been hit 28 times in 47 games this season.
      
      WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 7/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-15-12-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    8-17-15-25-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-12-15-32-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
UNFURNISHED HOUSE
2398 SW 2nd Ave. 4BR/2BA.
$1700/mo. Newly renovated.
Across from UF Law School. Avail August.
Call 338-1000, ext 100 or 240-9001
8-17-15-27-2
HALF BLOCK TO UF
$525 rent, August 1st. Four 3BR apts, quad, 
1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 condition, extras paid 
for, free parking, compare. 352-514-5060    
5-21-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Great apartment University House. 1BR/1BA apt, furnished, all utilities and wifi connection included. W/D. $650 per month. Walk to UF campus. Pool, fitness. Annette 407-687-9852, Annettemarie19@aol.com.    5-14-15-3-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
Room/board 10 acre estate in exchangefor part-time assistance caring fortemporarily impaired 64 yr old female forsummer/fall. Prefer female w/nursingexper. Contact 352-219-0141    4-22-15-2-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 FurnishingsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   27 
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
Get your Gator on!
Gold & silver gator lapel pins
$5 each or $30 per dozen
IFAS Extension Bookstore
www.ifasbooks.com/352-392-1764
4-22-15-5-10
Designated drivers are the greatest
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    4-22-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UP
NO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    
4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 5-14-14-25-13 
www.Skinnteaglobal.com
Learn how to lose 5 lbs in 5 days with our fat burning tea. Income opportunity available. 352-275-8561    4-22-6-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted28   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
8-17-15-25-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time (Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   4-22-15-8-14
Hiring Reporters, Content
Writers and Copy Editors in
Jacksonville, write on digital/
email mktg at MarketingSherpa 
Apply at meclabs.com/careers
5-12-15-5-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working stu-dent for part-time work in land mainte-nance on weekends. Begin $10/hr. Contact TrueheartofFlorida@gmail.com    5-14-15-5-14Coastal Georgia In-residence position - Housekeeper/Server - Greyfield Inn on Cumberland Island. Dining experience and some knowledge of wine required. $28,500/year plus room and board. Inquire: seashore@greyfieldinn.com    4-22-15-3-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    4-22-1-14
B.A.H. Express hiring Regional-OTR Class A drivers. Great pay and benefits, paid vaca-tion and holidays. Home weekly. 12 months experience. Apply at www.bahexpress.com. 800-852-6641 ext. 111    4-22-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! Receive Hands On Training And National Certifications Operating Bulldozers, Backhoes & Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. Veteran Benefits  Eligible! 1-866-912-0572    4-22-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    4-22-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE   4-22-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-25-15PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429   4-22-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    4-22-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    4-22-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    4-22-1-16
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 RidesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Stay up to date
Even though the semester is ending,
alligatorSports isn't going anywhere.Stay tuned to alligator.org/sports forall the updates from UF sports.Senior UF gymnast Kytra Hunter is among the final four candidates for the 2015 Honda Sports Award for Gymnastics, the Collegiate Women Sports Awards announced Tuesday. By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
Coon Rapids, Minnesota, is a 
bit hard to describe.
The winters are cold and quiet.The spring and summers are 
warm, and the sound of baseball reverberates between the city lim-
its.
About 60,000 people live on 23 
square miles, an area roughly the 
size of Manhattan but with about four percent of the population.
“It’s kind of a small town but 
it’s not really,” Florida sopho-more Logan Shore says.
Shore’s standing in the first 
base dugout of UF’s McKethan Stadium, seeking refuge from the beating, blazing sun on a Thurs-day afternoon before baseball practice.  
Sometimes he misses his 
hometown.
“There’s just nothing like the 
Midwest,” he says.
In his second year, Florida’s 
ace epitomizes poise.
He’s evolved from the untested 
freshman All-American he was one year ago into UF’s featured 
Friday night pitcher — a role he 
assumed a week before the 2014 Southeastern Conference season began and never relinquished.
He knows what’s expected 
of him, he knows what he can achieve, and maybe most impres-sively, he knew he’d be here, 
even when others told him he 
wouldn’t.
Shore's story begins where 
most of them end: Omaha, Ne-
braska.It’s a cool and breezy June af-
ternoon, and after a few minutes 
of searching, Shore finally finds his seat among the thousands of blue bleachers that line TD Amer-
itrade Park.
The tickets his mom bought are tucked away in his pocket, and now all that’s left to do is 
watch baseball.
The scene is set: Florida vs. 
Vanderbilt, Alex Panteliodis vs. 
Sonny Gray, the 2011 College 
World Series.He needs this. Less so for his 
love of baseball — which he un-questionably loves — but more so for his own reassurance.
Shore just finished his sopho-
more year at Coon Rapids High and was receiving letters from colleges — good colleges. SEC colleges. Letters from colleges that weren’t typically sent to kids 
in Coon Rapids, Shore says. 
He always assumed he was 
good enough to play Division I 
baseball, and now it was happen-
ing.
Still, he had to see for himself.
“Mom,” Shore said after a few 
innings watching Gray and Pan-teliodis battle on the mound. “I 
know I can play at this level. I 
just know I can.”
And yet, he heard a lot of no’s.No one from Coon Rapids can 
make it in the SEC. 
You can't play with them. No one will look at you.“I don’t know if it was just 
people thinking that, you know, 
he may be good in Minnesota but 
you’re not gonna be able to com-pete against guys that are down south,” Shore said. “I just use all 
that as motivation. You know, 
just try to prove them wrong.”
So, Shore worked.He made the USA 18 and under 
National Team in 2012. 
The following season, he was 
named the Minnesota Gatorade 
J.C. Jackson released from jail
Florida redshirt freshman cornerback J.C. Jackson bonded out of the 
Alachua County jail on Tuesday. Jackson was charged with three counts of felony robbery on Saturday. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore pitcher Logan Shore pitches during Florida's 14-3 win against South Carolina on 
April 10 at McKethan Stadium.
A Shore thing: Sophomore pitcher proving his worth
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Two emotions come to Kelsey Stewart’s 
mind when Florida and Florida State clash in 
Gainesville – love and hate.
“I love when FSU comes to Gainesville,” 
Stewart said. “There’s people sitting on the 
hills. Everyone’s loud. Everyone hates FSU, 
you know?”
Stewart, who’s currently riding a 14-game 
hitting streak, will look to continue the ri-valry tonight as the No. 1 Gators (43-4) take 
on the No. 10 Seminoles (37-11) at Katie Sea-
shole Pressly Stadium at 7.
Florida has won 12 of the last 13 match-
ups against Florida State and leads the all-time series 20-14.
But while the rivalry is more significant 
for players who grew up in Florida, some 
out-of-state players aren’t as passionately inclined.  
“I know it’s a big ri-
valry, but I feel like since 
I didn’t grow up knowing this rivalry it’s not that 
huge of a deal to me,” said 
California native freshman Nicole DeWitt.
Twelve of UF’s players come from states 
outside of Florida, including California, Kan-sas, Arizona, Texas, Missouri, Delaware and Virginia. Just eight Gators hail from the Sun-shine State.UF softball players ready 
for midweek against FSU
Stewart
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 30By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
Richie Martin wasn’t sure whether to 
keep running. Good thing he did.
Buddy Reed’s pop fly directly above 
home plate somehow missed 
the glove of Bethune-Cook-man’s diving infielder, al-
lowing Martin to step past 
him and tap home plate.
It was a slow scoring 
night for both sides, as No. 6 Florida (32-10) failed to record a hit until the sixth 
inning in its 2-1 win over Bethune-Cook-
man (15-30) on Tuesday. 
The Wildcats hit .233 and were held scoreless until the eighth inning, while 
the Gators hit just .142 and tallied an er-
ror for the third straight game.
“It’s hard to make sense of it,” senior 
Josh Tobias said of UF’s poor offensive 
outing. “Sometimes you have it, some-
times you don’t. It all comes down to ad-
justments. We made adjust-ments last week, we didn’t make any tonight.”
Right-hander Eric 
Hanhold was solid in his third start of the season, 
striking out a career-high seven batters in 
5.1 innings.
“I thought it was his best outing of the 
year,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said.UF baseball tops Bethune-
Cookman with timely hittingSEE SHORE,  PAGE 30
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 30BASEBALL•   •   •Player of the Year after posting a 
0.27 ERA without losing a game. Next came the MLB draft, where 
Shore’s hometown Minnesota 
Twins selected him in the 29th round.
Suddenly, the kid from Coon 
Rapids was getting looked at.
“Until then,” Shore starts to 
say — his feet are firmly planted in Florida’s dugout, but his mind wanders back home, “it was al-
most like a dream.”
It felt just like yesterday.
Perfect Game National Fresh-
man of the year. SEC Freshman of the Year. All-American. His 
first year at Florida was unprec-
edented.
Shore grins.“It’s crazy how fast time goes,” 
he says.
At age 19, he led Florida’s 
pitching staff with a 2.16 ERA and seven wins. He struck out 68 batters, 17 more than any of his 
peers.
Was it his hometown doubters 
that fueled him? Those who ridi-
culed his first season playing in the south before it even began?
“You know, it definitely fac-
tored in,” Shore said. “But once I got here, I was a lot more focused 
on helping the team, trying to be 
the best teammate I could be to everybody around me, trying to make everybody else better along 
with myself and just trying to win 
baseball games.”
But his biggest motivation, he 
said, was getting back to the Col-
lege World Series. 
And this year, he thinks Flori-
da can. After all, its offense is op-erating at a historic mark.
Forty-two games into its 55 
game season, the Gators are aver-aging their second-highest batting average (.304) in 12 years and have more home runs (44) than the last two seasons combined. 
“When everything is firing, 
this is a deadly lineup,” outfield-er Ryan Larson said. “I wouldn’t want to be a pitcher against them.”
Of course, Larson means op-
posing pitchers. Florida’s arms are reaping the riches of the team’s offensive success, and Shore sits 
atop the gold mine.
Shore attributes his prepara-
tion to his teammates — on a 
weekly basis, he’s forced to face the nation’s No. 4 and No. 13 
home run leaders in JJ Schwarz 
and Harrison Bader, respectively. 
But UF’s batters claim that 
they’re the ones who have to face him.
“At the end of the day,” Bader 
said of Shore, “he’s one of the 
best talents in the country. With-
out a doubt.”
Even so, Shore’s first taste of 
the SEC as a sophomore starter 
was bitter. Through his first two 
games, Shore gave up seven runs and nine hits while striking out seven.
But the only stat he cares about 
is the win. And they lost both.
“I’ve never really been hit like 
that before,” Shore said. “I think it was a wake-up call.” 
One week later, Shore turned 
his game around. In Florida’s 8-1 
win against Alabama on March 
27, the sophomore pitched a complete game, allowing one run while striking out a career-high eight batters.
“He answered everything that 
he needed to that day,” coach Kev-in O’Sullivan said. “He stepped up like a No. 1 guy is supposed to.”
Three starts later, Shore tossed 
another complete game in a 6-3 win against Mississippi State. He allowed just six hits and struck out six batters on the road.
This season, Shore is second 
on the team in ERA (2.29) and is tied for first in wins (six), but the trust his teammates have in his abilities can’t be measured in any stat line. 
“Every time he goes to the 
mound you think your team has a great chance to win,” senior left-hander Bobby Poyner said. “I would argue that he’s one of the most competitive guys on our 
staff.”
Back in Coon Rapids, the goal 
was simple.
“Dang,” Shore used to think. “I 
wish I could be, I wanna be like 
one of them. One of those guys who have options to go play at 
schools.”
Now, his goal may be less 
humble, but much more attain-
able than it was just a few years 
ago.
“Play in the big leagues,” 
Shore said. “I mean, I think that’s 
a statement that’s probably pretty usual for guys if you ask anybody 
on our team.”
It may be commonplace for 
his teammates, but less so for a 
teenager from Coon Rapids. And 
Shore knows it.
He mentions past players who 
have made it: Brad Hand, a Min-
nesota native who now pitches for the Miami Marlins. 
He says there are a few guys 
here and there who were drafted out of Minnesota and went on to play in college, but they haven’t 
materialized into big league pros-
pects yet.
Shore knows he can get there, 
despite what other people may say, and despite what he’s been 
told his entire baseball career be-
fore arriving at Florida.
“I do. I expect a lot out of my-
self,” he said.
The expectations have always 
been high, ever since the recruit-ment letters he received in Coon Rapids and his first trip to Omaha.
That’s when he knew he would 
make it.30   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore pitcher Logan Shore (left) talks with student assistant coach and former Gators 
pitcher Hudson Randall in the third-base dugout of McKethan Stadium on April 10.
SHORE,  from pg 29Shore knew he wanted to play professionally after the 2011 CWS
While a majority of the team isn’t from Flori-
da, that doesn’t mean the rivalry game is unim-
portant. 
“I still wanna go out there and beat this team 
because I know how big of a deal it is to all the other Florida players on this team,” DeWitt said.
Peoria, Arizona, native Lauren Haeger said it 
takes time to realize how big of a deal the rivalry is. The senior has played six career games against the Seminoles.
“When I first got to this school I didn’t really 
understand it,” Haeger said. “Being so far away, I 
was like, ‘Oh, it’s the in-state rivalry, whatever,’ 
but it’s kind of intense here.”
Haeger’s first hit against Florida State came 
just this year on a single in the 7th inning of UF’s 
5-1 win on April 8 in Tallahassee. She’s now 
1-for-19 against the ‘Noles in her career.
One reason Haeger’s bat had been silent 
throughout the years was because of FSU pitcher Lacey Waldrop. Haeger said she’s ready to face Waldrop, who was the 2014 USA Softball Nation-al Player of the Year.
“I’ve never gotten a hit off Lacey Waldrop, so 
that’s my kind of goal for tomorrow if they do pitch her,” she said. “Everyone has those pitchers that they just can’t get, and I haven’t gotten her 
yet but hopefully I’ll get a hit tomorrow.”
This season, Waldrop is 24-5 with a 1.25 ERA 
and 196 strikeouts in 167.1 innings. Her 24 wins 
are tied for sixth most in the country and her ERA is the 11th lowest in the nation.
Meanwhile, Haeger’s 1.20 ERA this season is 
10th lowest in the country.
Florida didn’t see Waldrop on April 8, but if 
the Gators do see her, Haeger and the rest of the 
team are prepared.
“Luckily we’ve all seen Waldrop a few times," 
Haeger said, "so we kind of know what to ex-
pect."SOFTBALL,  from pg  29Seminoles have top-notch pitcher
A.J. Puk, suspended from the team 
for a week after he and teammate Kirby 
Snead were arrested for trespassing, 
made his return in relief of Hanhold in the fifth. The sophomore tallied one wild pitch, one hit batter and one walk 
before being pulled in the same inning.
“I expected him to come in and 
throw strikes,” O’Sullivan said of Puk. 
“I think his tempo and delivery did look a little bit slower, but the plan was 
to get him a couple innings and to get 
him ready for the weekend.”
Aaron Rhodes took his place and 
gave up just one hit and struck out two batters in 2.1 innings. Bobby Poyner 
(3-1) got the win after relieving Rhodes 
and allowing just one hit in the game’s final two innings.
Bethune-Cookman scored a run in 
the eighth inning after Bryant Munoz singled to right field.
In the bottom half of the inning, 
Josh Tobias sent Martin home with an RBI single to take back the lead. 
UF held the Wildcats scoreless for 
the remainder of the game to seal the 
win.
Next, Florida will prepare for a 
three-game home series with Kentucky 
on Friday.
“It was good to have the pitching to-
night. Obviously we didn’t hit well, but its always good to have the pitching to back you up,” Tobias said. “They’ve been throwing good all weekend, 
and it’s good for them to keep going 
through it and into this weekend, too.”BASEBALL,  from pg 29Pitcher returns from sus -
pension, played horribly“Every time he goes to the 
mound, you think your team 
has a great chance to win.”
Bobby Poyner
UF baseball pitcher
•   •   ••   •   •WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015   ALLIGATOR   31
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
As I write my byline one ﬁ  nal time, I 
can’t help but get misty-eyed. I can-not believe my time at The Alligator is coming to a close.
But here we are. Anyone who 
knows me personally knows that I don’t do well expressing sad or sentimental feelings, so I’ll go ahead and give you some of my favorite memories while working at this paper.
I was hired by former editors Adam Lich-
tenstein and Landon Watnick, who in Janu-ary 2014 saw my tweets from the Under Ar-mour Combine. Without you two, I literally wouldn’t be writing this.
When I was hired, it was about a month 
before National Signing Day, so the content I was writing was typically stories about kids verbally committing and decommitting, breaking down what the year’s recruiting class needs.
So on Signing Day, I was the only recruit-
ing beat writer on staff — the beat was all mine. But that also meant that that day in 
February was probably one of the busiest of 
my professional career.
From 7 a.m. until about 9:30 p.m. that 
Wednesday I sat at my desk and cranked out story after story. I was a machine. As soon as a letter of intent was signed, a commitment or decommitment happened, I was right there single-handedly pumping out all the recruiting content for the pa-per’s website and in the paper that next day.
As one of many outnumbered 
women in this industry, getting an opportunity and responsibility like that is huge. It was tremendous, and a huge resume and name booster for me. The recruiting cy-cle wound down during the spring, but I started showing up to things like Pro Day and Spring football practices and continued to write further for the Alligator, 
even though Florida Football wasn’t techni-
cally my beat — yet.
Having proved myself that spring with re-
cruiting and more football, I was put on the Florida football beat for the 2014-15 school year. I was so pumped to be able to cover the team, and even more so when I found out our staff would include Richard Johnson, a col-league and friend who I already admired so 
much. Also on the team was Jonathan Czu-
pryn and Jordan McPherson as our editor. Jordan at his age is a prodigy, in my opinion, and my writing wouldn’t be the same without him.
Frankly Zoop, I had no idea who you were 
at the time. But that’s alright because a semes-ter of bonding later, I now call you a great friend.
Our team’s ﬁ  rst big assign-
ment came with Southeastern Conference Media Days in July. 
In both Hoover, Alabama, and 
back at the sports ofﬁ  ce, we absolutely killed the coverage. As probably the youngest jour-nalists who were there, it was a tremendous experience for all of us. 
Now for some of my favorite memories 
during the season. 
The triple overtime game against Kentucky 
was such a horrible, sloppy game that every ﬁ  ve minutes or so I would turn to Richard uncontrollably laughing and say “This team goes to Tuscaloosa in a week!” over and over again.
But the Tuscaloosa road trip to me, was the 
most fun one, and probably the most interest-ing, too. For the trip, all we could afford was a 
Motel 6 in Bessemer, Alabama. Yes, it is exact-
ly as horrible and sketchy as you’re thinking.
Nevertheless that trip was hands down 
my favorite. Getting to walk around campus, standing in the shadows of Bear Bryant’s statue and hearing Bryant Denny at its loudest right before a 3:30 kickoff — I’ll never, ever forget it.  
The Monday after Tennessee week, our 
staff buckled down and did an incredible job covering the Treon Harris alleged sexual as-sault incident. We worked both independently 
and collectively as a team to ensure we pro-
vided informative, and journalistically sound content.
The Alligator allowed me to tell so many 
stories about football — the sport that I love more than a lot of things in this world —in a way that I never saw possible. From play-er features to game previews and matchup breakdowns. I never once felt like it was work.
I grew exponentially as a writer, and be-
came a better journalist under the Alligator’s strict unbiased, objective philosophy. I was able to praise and criticize, analyze the game and its players and assert my opinion. This al-lowed me to truly ﬁ  nd my voice as an author — something that some writers are never able to ﬁ  nd on their own.
To anyone who has ever read, shared, 
edited or critiqued one of my stories, I am eternally grateful. Without you, I wouldn’t be where I am today.
If all goes according to plan, no matter how 
“big” I get in the sports media world, I will never forget the ways that the Alligator helped me along the way.
Staﬀ   writer thankful for co-workers, memories as college career comes to a close
Morgan     
Moriarty
twitter: @Morgan_Moriarty32   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015
