We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 61 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
Column: UF’s men’s basketball will 
ﬁ  nish higher than projected
The Gators showcased their potential in their 
home opener Monday, pg. 13
From the volleyball court to student Senate
UF volleyball player takes graduate seat, pg. 5
Students smash FSU-theme car
It helped raised money for a nonproﬁ  t, pg. 8Food for Thought
Check out the photo story, pg. 9
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
The Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts stage was split Tuesday night: on 
one side, an outspoken civil rights activ-ist, and on the other, a former police chief with a controversial past. But the night 
was surprisingly mild.  Rev. Al Sharpton and former New 
York City Police commissioner Ray Kel-
ly agreed policing in the U.S. had to be improved and minorities are dispropor-tionately targeted in front of about 500 students and Gainesville residents. They also discussed race and gun violence.
Accent Speaker’s Bureau brought the 
men side by side and paid them a com-bined $60,000. 
Students thought they had it ﬁ  gured out: The men would argue passionately, they assumed.  
Sharpton believes in radical police 
reform and has been criticized for mak-ing derogatory comments against white, Mormon and Jewish people. Kelly be-lieves in the rights of police ofﬁ  cers and has been criticized for the “stop-and-
frisk” procedure, in which ofﬁ  cers may 
pat those they believe to be suspicious.
UF law professor and the event’s me-diator Katheryn Russell-Brown asked the speakers about the relationship between race and policing and included questions 
from student submissions.  
Both touched on prominent incidents 
of what some call police brutality, includ-
ing the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner, both black men. 
Sharpton said police tend to target mi-
norities disproportionately, and the black community is most vulnerable.
“We want them to treat us like they 
do any other community,” Sharpton said. Accent event less controversial than planned
SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4
By Courtney Grigsby
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s great UF — and that’s 
mostly thanks to generous dona-tions.
This morning, the UF Alumni 
Association is hosting Grate-
ful Gator Day on the Plaza of 
the Americas. Students will say “thank you” to about 30,000 UF donors with video recordings, handwritten notes and selﬁ  es, said Christine Velasquez, the as-sociate director of development communications for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Development and Alumni Af-
fairs.
“Giving back has always been 
a UF tradition,” she said.  “This 
event is a great opportunity for students to learn how much pri-vate giving truly impacts their UF experience.”
Last year, the UAA collected 
$315 million from UF alumni and Gator fans, Velasquez said.
Tien Weber, a UF environ-
mental science sophomore, said 
she’s looking forward to meeting 
some of the donors in attendance because she recently received a study-abroad scholarship, which was funded by a UF graduate. 
“I guess it’s just good to see 
the alumni out there because that shows you the opportunities you have,” the 19-year-old said.
Even though UF alumna Mary 
Lane won’t be able to attend and meet students like Weber, she said she’s looking forward to receiving a thank you for her donations.
Lane, now a Seminole County 
Public Schools education special-ist, said she hopes students will realize the importance of giving.
“You get to a point in your life 
where you’ve got to give to oth-ers,” Lane said.
The event begins at 10 a.m. 
and ends at 2 p.m.  Students to show 
donors gratitude
Emma Green / Alligator
JUBILATION IN D
Nate Ferrell, a 7-year-old second grader at William S. T albot Elementary School and spokesboy of Dance 
Marathon’s campaign for UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital, cheers atop a table on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. Ferrell, who has a mitochondrial disease, performed songs on his violin.
GRATEFUL GATORS
IT’S PART OF THE CLICK IT OR 
TICKET IT CAMPAIGN.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police announced 14 days of 
stricter seat belt law enforcement on Facebook 
on Tuesday morning.As part of the Click It or Ticket campaign, 
ofﬁ  cers are increasing their focus on giving ci-tations to people who drive without a seat belt from Nov. 17 to 30, according to a GPD press release.
“As we approach Thanksgiving and the 
holiday season, we want to make sure people are doing the one thing that can save them in a crash, buckling up,” GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in the release.
In a campaign video posted to the depart-ment’s Facebook, a man drives down a neigh-
borhood street with a woman in the passen-
ger’s seat. A silver Mustang erupts from a four-way intersection and slams into their car, sending the man through its windshield.
The woman, wearing her seat belt, seems 
physically unharmed as the man falls in slow motion in a shower of broken glass.
He comes within inches of the pavement 
and ﬂ  oats back in time before the 30-second 
video ends with the man putting on his seat belt.
“When you’re not wearing your seat belt, 
you’re risking serious injury or death. And un-
like a TV show or a movie, there’s no rewind-ing and no do-overs,” said a video description on the National Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety Admin-istration’s website.
More than 21,000 people died in car ac-
cidents in 2013, and not wearing a seat belt caused 49 percent of those deaths, according 
to the NHTSA.  GPD to crack down on seat belt usage for the next two weeksKelly
Sharpton
Sharpton and Kelly addressed racismSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gators for UNICEF Squat 
Challenge
While Toilet Day may seem like a joke, there are actually about 2.4 billion people around the world 
(one in three) who do not have ac-
cess to sanitary facilities. The goal is to raise awareness of this issue by hosting an event Thursday at 12:35 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas where Gators for UNICEF attempt to break the re-cord for most people squatting in one place. The current record 
is 118 people, and the hope is to 
chomp that with more than 150 people in attendance. Free pizza will be provided, and the event will only take 10 minutes. Invite your friends and come out and squat with them. For more in-formation, visit facebook.com/events/1046268918719333.
RUB Entertainment presents: 
Local Bands ShowcaseReitz Union Board Entertainment will be hosting its first Local Bands Showcase on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The show will feature local bands from Gainesville, 
including Insignificant Other, 
Pyramid and Poblano.
“Celebrating ‘The Originator’: The Bo Diddley Legacy”Rock ‘n’ roll legend Bo Diddley’s only appearance on “The Ed 
Sullivan Show” was Nov. 20, 
1955, and Friday marks the 60th anniversary of his performance. The George A. Smathers Libraries are commemorating the anniver-sary with an event, “Celebrating ‘The Originator’: The Bo Diddley Legacy,” Friday at noon in the Scott Nygren Scholars Studio, 
Room 212, in Library West. The 
celebration will feature a short presentation on the influence of Bo Diddley on rock ‘n’ roll history by David E. Carlson, the execu-tive director of the UF Center of Media Innovation and Research. A companion exhibit in the cases outside Room 212 will highlight 
Diddley’s legacy and his appear-
ance on campus in the Spring of 2003. It is free and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
GatorNights: “Don’t Lose Your 
Zen”GatorNights will host a “Don’t 
Lose Your Zen” event Friday 
from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. The event will fea-ture massage chairs, group fit-ness classes and comedian Joe Mande sponsored by Reitz Union Board Entertainment. The event will also feature showings of the movie “Straight Outta Compton” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast 
during Midnight Munchies. This 
event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
RUB Entertainment presents: co-
median Joe MandeFriday at 9:30 p.m., head over to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to watch stand-up comedian Joe Mande perform during GatorNights! Joe Mande is a co-median, writer and actor. He wrote for “Parks and Recreation” for its last three seasons. Other 
writing credits include “Kroll 
Show” and the Aziz Ansari Netflix series “Master of None.”
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 61
HIGH  84° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF biological station receives $20,000 grant
The UF Nature Coast Biological Station in Cedar Key will 
receive a $20,000 grant to research spotted seatrout in the 
Gulf of Mexico.
The grant, which UF will receive at the end of the term, 
will fund a study in which ﬁ  shers will catch spotted seat-
rout and put plastic tracking tags inside them. If another 
ﬁ  sher catches the tagged ﬁ  sh, they will report how well it’s handling the tag.
The grant comes from The Conservation Fund, a nation-
al organization that works to protect the environment and help local businesses, said Ann Simonelli, The Conserva-tion Fund’s media relations director. She said the fund has been working to help conserve natural resources in North Florida.
“We realized there was an opportunity for some ground-
work to happen (in North Florida),” Simonelli said.
Mike Allen, the director of the station, said the study is a 
pilot project that will focus on how the ﬁ  sh react to the tags. If UF’s station is successful with the tagging process, it will expand to study the ﬁ  sh more extensively.
“If it has a high survival rate, we can follow up the next 
year with a larger-scale tag to study the ﬁ  sh,” he said.
Allen said the project will stimulate the North Florida 
economy by encouraging local ﬁ  sheries to become a part of the study.
“We’re doing a study that’s going to improve a popular 
ﬁ  shery on the Gulf of Mexico,” he said.
-Jordan JohnsonUF finds way to personalize medicine
A team of UF researchers is creating a new way to per-
sonalize medicine for patients through genotyping.
The study, led by UF’s Personalized Medicine Program, 
aims to gain an understanding of someone’s genetic make-up and how he or she responds to certain medications, said 
Larisa Cavallari, an associate professor in UF’s College of 
Pharmacy and the associate director of the program.
This term, the researchers are running genotyping tests 
to see what drugs work best for patients with heart disease after they’ve gone through a medical procedure to unclog their arteries.
“Patients got genetic testing here (in Gainesville), and 
with some we saw that their genotype might not respond well to usual treatment, and they would need a different 
drug,” she said. “Using genotyping information, we reduce 
the risk of having adverse effects.”
Cavallari said she hopes genotyping helps people in the 
future.
“We would genotype people for a bunch of different 
genes and variations of genes when they’re healthy,” she said. “For the rest of that person’s life, you could use that information to help treat them in the future.”
UF is a leader in genotyping, Cavallari said. It is one of 
six institutions across the country funded to do this type of genetic research, she said.
“What we are doing here is unique because we are lead-
ing the initiative,” she said.
-Rachel HowardUF astronomer finds galaxy cluster
A UF professor and astronomer has found a galaxy 
cluster far, far away — 8.5 billion light-years away.
This term, Anthony Gonzalez published his discov-
ery: a galaxy cluster, which is a group of hundreds or 
thousands of galaxies bound together by gravity. 
Researchers typically don’t see more than ﬁ  ve gal-
axy clusters this big and this old, Gonzalez said.
Because the cluster is so far away, he said the sci-
entists are looking at the galaxies the way they were billions of years ago.
Over the course of four years, Gonzalez and a team 
of 22 other astronomers have found thousands of clus-
ters. They have captured photographs of the clusters 
through a laboratory in Pasadena, California.
Through their research, the astronomers are study-
ing the impact of the clusters’ environments. They will 
also look at the properties of the universe for cosmol-
ogy and the science behind the origin and develop-ment of the universe, Gonzalez said.
With the help of the Hubble Space Telescope, the 
team’s next step is gathering images to ﬁ  nd distant ex-
ploding stars, called supernovae, within the clusters.
“The goal is to learn about the universe,” he said.
- Ashley Martin4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
But Kelly argued that sometimes 
people’s emotions cloud facts.  
He used Brown’s case as an ex-
ample, as the teenager’s death lead 
to a series of riots in Ferguson, Mis-souri. 
Kelly said this led to a “Ferguson 
effect,” which made officers hesitant to do their jobs for fear of being per-secuted.
“In my experience, the police 
have come a long way and are better now than ever before,” Kelly said.
But, he said officers also need 
to be screened more thoroughly to make sure not just anyone receives a badge and a gun.
“We give police officers a tremen-
dous power, literally the power of life 
and death,” Kelly said.
Four University Police vehicles 
were parked outside the Phillips 
Center. At the front door, a group of about five officers stood at atten-tion. While one checked bags with a flashlight, another searched the in-side with a bomb-sniffing police dog named Boomer.
When Sharpton was initially 
booked as a speaker, the event’s Facebook page flooded with critics’ comments, with many arguing he’s undeserving to speak at the univer-sity.  
UF astronomy sophomore Me-
gan Newsome said she hoped both speakers, however different in their views, could help the other gain per-
spective.
“I’m hoping one convinces the 
other of something,” the 19-year-old 
said.
Gabriela Willis, a self-described 
Sharpton opposer and UF political science senior, said hearing from people you disagree with is an im-portant step to understanding them.
Although she said she finds 
Sharpton’s views to be extreme, they’re valuable.
“It gets conversations started,” 
the 21-year-old said.ACCENT,  from pg1The men talked about 
views on police brutality
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
The Rev. Al Sharpton, right, and former New York City Police commissioner Ray Kelly speak at Accent 
Speaker’s Bureau’s “A Conversation on Policing, Gun Violence, and Civil Rights” event on Tuesday in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — Republicans urged 
an immediate closure of America’s bor-
ders to Syrian refugees Tuesday, drawing 
angry denunciations from some Demo-
crats and igniting an emotional debate about U.S. values in the wake of the dead-ly terror attacks in Paris.
“Pause” was the word used by new 
House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc-Connell of Kentucky, urging at least a temporary halt in the resettlement of Syr-
ians and disputing Obama administration 
claims that the small numbers making their way here so far are being thoroughly investigated.The administration showed no sign 
of backing off its plans to bring an addi-tional 10,000 Syrian refugees to the U.S. and mounted a hasty defense of its vetting process, which Attorney General Loretta Lynch assured Congress is “robust.”
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh John-
son, who briefed House members Tuesday night, said, “It’s important to me that the vetting that is conducted is thorough, it’s 
careful.”
Yet there were signs Democratic al-
lies might abandon the White House on 
the issue. Chuck Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Senate Democrat, broke 
with most in his party and told reporters 
that a pause in accepting Syrian refugees “may be necessary.”Republicans rush to shut 
borders to Syrian refugees
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
GENDER ACROSS FAITHS
Arielle Konen, right, the UF women’s affairs cabinet director, asks six students ques-
tions about how their genders are affected by their religion at the “Gender Across Faiths: Asking the Big Questions” panel in the Reitz Union Auditorium on Tuesday. 
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A bill in the Florida Legislature 
to amend Florida’s “Stand Your 
Ground” law was struck down 
Tuesday.
The Criminal Justice Subcom-
mittee voted 6-6 against House 
Bill 169, which proposed an 
amendment to a Florida statute 
that allows for the use of force in defense of oneself, others or prop-erty.
According to a summary analy-
sis on the bill, the Florida Supreme Court recently established that the 
defendant must present evidence 
of acting in self-defense when us-ing force to claim immunity from criminal prosecution.
The amendment sought to 
change the statute so the pros-ecutor would have to present evi-dence to the contrary if he or she wished to overturn the immunity claim.
In addition, the bill would have 
allowed for defendants to be re-imbursed up to $200,000 for court costs, attorney fees and related expenses in seeking immunity if 
an immunity claim was granted.
Firearms-rights advocate Josh-
ua Roe disagreed with the ruling.
“I think it was a bad decision 
because what this bill was doing was basically keeping the tradi-
tion  of the United States political system and the notion that you are as a human being innocent 
until proven guilty,” the 33-year-
old UF tourism, recreation and sport management doctoral stu-dent said.
“I think the serious problem 
with that is the Florida Legislature has now basically said that being innocent until proven guilty is not 
relevant in a court of law.”
The bill is one of several gun-
related bills in the Florida Legisla-
ture. Another bill moving through 
the Florida Senate proposes to al-low concealed carry on state col-
lege campuses.
Rep. Carlos Trujillo, the chair-
man of the subcommittee and a former prosecutor, said he sup-ported “Stand Your Ground” but 
he could not go along with the 
bill. He said the change would make it difficult to prosecute someone, especially if the other person was killed and there were 
no other witnesses.
“It’s your defense,” said Trujil-
lo. “If you are alleging something 
you have to prove it.”
The Associated Press contrib-
uted to this report. Amendment to ‘Stand Your Ground’ law struck down 
The vote was 6-6
“It’s your defense. If you are 
alleging something you have 
to prove it.”
Carlos Trujillo
chairman of the subcommitteeWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF volleyball player Simone Antwi is making her 
presence known outside the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center.
UF Student Senate approved Simone Antwi, a 
starting middle blocker on UF’s volleyball team, for a graduate Senate seat by unanimous consent at Tuesday night’s Senate meeting.
Antwi, 22, said she decided to join Senate to help 
students on campus while representing student-ath-letes and graduate students.
“I hope to find a way to merge the student-athlete 
and graduate student population,” the UF interna-
tional business master’s student said.
Senators also discussed student organizations’ 
ability to dance outside the stadium.
At the start of the meeting, Sen. Nardin Derias (Access minority leader, Agriculture) motioned to 
postpone a resolution asking the University Athletic Association to allow cultural, dance and student organizations to practice in allotted stadium space 
until the next meeting.
Dancing fosters a sense of com-
munity and invokes a sense of be-longing, according to the resolu-tion. The sign posted by the UAA 
gives no further information to student groups about how to re-ceive authorization to hold “group dancing/meeting activities,” and 
after the signs were posted, students had to resort to more dangerous locations for practice.
“Nick and Kevin are already working with ad-
ministration on this,” she said.
She said she wanted to hold the resolution to give 
them a chance to continue those talks.From the court to Student Senate 
Giving the environment a voice
Cynthia Barnett’s favorite part of her job is getting 
to travel the world and see new places.
After graduating with a journalism degree in 1989, 
the UF alumna wrote for multiple publications as an 
environmental journalist while traveling to Australia, 
Singapore and other countries.
Today at Harry’s Seafood Bar and Grille in down-
town Gainesville, Barnett will be awarded a 2015 
Water Stewardship Award by Gainesville’s Rotary Club for her work in environmental journalism and her books.
Barnett has written three books about the wet-
lands and is currently a UF professor of environmen-tal journalism.
“I’m very grateful for the focus the Rotary brings 
to water,” Barnett said. “Locally, they are one of the stand-out organizations that work tirelessly with de-veloping issues and the water issues.”
Since publishing her first book in 2007, Barnett 
has received multiple accolades for her writing, and  her newest book, “Rain: A Natural and Cultural His-tory,” was nominated for the National Book Award for nonfiction.
“We live in a place that’s water abundant, and 
yet there is a water scarcity under your feet,” Bar-nett said. “That’s why it’s important to know how to report and communicate about these issues to the public.”
- SMFiltering Florida’s aquifer
Linda Demetropoulos first became interested in 
the wetlands when she learned about the invasive plant species in Miami wetlands.
Since then, Demetropoulos has become the 
nature manager for Gainesville Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs and manages several parks — 
including the Sweetwater Wetlands Park, a drain which filters into the Floridan aquifer. The park will receive an award for those water-treatment functions today.
“That park’s main goal is for water treatment, 
so it’s really built to improve water quality,” she said. “It’s really important that it discharges clean water.”
The water-treatment system sends water into 
the Alachua Sink, where it is filtered.
The park has only been in existence for a couple 
of years, she said. The park opened to the public in May and just opened up to the public full time in October.
“The park is a beautiful amenity,” Demetropou-
los said. “There are alligators, birds and such and up close and personal to look at.”
She said the water treatment sets the park apart.“There’s not another (park) in this area of the 
state,” Demetropoulos said. “It was constructed to solve a problem, and it’s doing what it was meant to do.”
- SMBy Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor, a Gainesville art-
ist and a local park will receive rec-ognition for their work in environ-mental preservation.
The Rotary Club of Downtown 
Gainesville will have its second Water Stewardship Awards tonight, which will recognize UF environ-mental journalism professor Cynthia Barnett, artist Margaret Ross Tolbert and the Sweetwater Wetlands Park, which is overseen by Gainesville Regional Utilities. Each recipient has worked toward water conservation, 
club spokesman Rob Oglesby said.
“I think it’s an opportunity for the 
Rotary to honor those who are work-
ing so hard to create a positive en-vironment for water conservation,” he said.
Oglesby said about 50 people 
were invited to the event, which will 
take place at Harry’s Seafood Bar 
and Grille in downtown Gainesville. It will also include a wine tasting where half of the money made from tickets, which cost $40 each, will go toward honoring the people chosen for next year’s awards.
“They’re (the Rotary Club) very 
on top of water issues,” Barnett, a UF 
journalism alumna, said. “That’s re-
ally important for water and climate change.”
Barnett, who currently teaches 
environmental journalism at UF, has written three books about wet-lands. Her most recent book, “Rain: A Natural and Cultural History,” was nominated for the 2015 National 
Book Awards.Barnett and Rick Hutton, a GRU 
supervising engineer, will both 
be there to accept their respective awards. The park is being acknowl-edged for its water-treatment mea-sures with GRU.
Tolbert will not receive her award 
in person because she is currently in Turkey. The award specifically rec-ognizes artwork that emphasizes the need to protect freshwater springs, Oglesby said.
“Their award and their programs 
help recognize the importance of water to all life and human culture,” Tolbert wrote in an email. A professor, artist and park awardedGainesville 
Throwbacks
Alligator file photo
LIGHT-SPEED SKATING
On Nov. 17, 2008, a Space Age team member edges 
past a Stone Age team member during a derby game.
Nov. 19, 1982 — The Gainesville Regional Airport, 
in connection with Emergency Medical Services, Shands 
Teaching Hospital and Alachua General Hospital, staged a mock plane crash to help train their employees to re-spond to a plane crash with 25 people seriously injured. 
As the accident organizers were preparing for the disas-
ter, a real potential disaster was developing. A real plane preparing for landing was having issues. A single-engine Tomahawk trainer called in that it was low on fuel and the engine was running rough. The plane landed without a problem.
Nov. 17, 1992 — Sigma Chi Fraternity could be held 
responsible for an incident in which two fraternity mem-
bers and another UF student were arrested for alcohol 
violations. Judicial Affairs Assistant Dean Irene Stevens said Sigma Chi members were charged with violating UF student conduct codes at a hearing. Sigma Chi could have received penalties ranging from a written repri-mand to suspension of social privileges depending on the facts of the case and the fraternity’s prior history.
Nov. 19, 2004 — A grand jury indicted Samuel White 
in the first-degree murder of his wife, and prosecutors said they will not seek the death penalty. Derother De-nise White, 35, was fatally stabbed on the morning of Oct. 27, 2004, while working in her Santa Fe Community College office. Witnesses said Samuel White attacked his 
wife and fled. Police arrested him in New Kent, Virginia. 
White was extradited to Alachua County. After the in-dictment, White was held without bond until his trial.
Nov. 14, 2008 — Two former GPD officers had sex 
with prostitutes while on duty. The internal investigation 
by the Gainesville Police began when accusations were 
made against Cpl. William Billings and Officer Dave Rev-eille. The investigation was based on a tip from a former prostitute, said Capt. Lynne Benck. A GPD Internal Af-fairs report stated 14 women said they had sex with Bill-ings for money while he was in uniform and driving a marked GPD car. Two of the 14 women said they were 13 and 14 years old when they had sex with Billings for money.STUDENT GOVERNMENT
It’s for the environment  Antwi
“I think it’s an opportunity for 
the Rotary to honor those who 
are working so hard to create 
a positive environment for 
water conservation.” 
Rob Oglesby
club spokesmanThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnRespect, rather 
than rage, 
characterized the 
Sharpton-Kelly 
conversation
In 2004, “South Park” aired the episode “Douche and Turd.” 
The episode concerned an election to adopt a new mascot for South Park Elementary, with the two sole choices being the titular Giant Douche and Turd Sandwich. The show, which aired a week before the nation had to choose between George 
W. Bush and John Kerry for the presidency, not only satirized the often-mediocre choices we face come election season but also the sheer frenzy Americans are prone to work themselves into when they take a stance on public ﬁ  gures. In the lead-up to last night’s Accent Speaker’s Bureau event with the Rev. Al Sharpton and former New York City Police commissioner Ray Kelly, the rhetoric on campus surrounding one or both ﬁ  gures sounded a little too similar to that surrounding the Turd Sandwich (and/or Giant Douche).
Prior to the event itself, the Facebook page was littered with 
phrases like “liberal propaganda,” “boycott,” “disgraceful” and other buzzwords people like to throw around when they’re up-set. All of them concerned Al Sharpton, who is far from an ideal representative of nuanced discourse. As far as Ray Kelly, the per-petual defender of the NYPD’s deplorable stop-and-frisk policy, is concerned, the less said on his public statements, the better. While we’re disappointed Accent opted to have the controversial Sharpton speak on American policing in lieu of individuals like 
Ta-Nehisi Coates — an acclaimed journalist and a recipient of 
the MacArthur “Genius Grant” — or Michael Render, aka rapper Killer Mike — who touched on similar subject matter during a talk at Florida State University on Monday — the organization none-theless did an excellent job of pairing publicly visible ideological opponents for a spirited conversation.
Regardless of these criticisms, the conversation, moderated by 
UF law professor Katheryn Russell-Brown, proved to be an engag-ing, if sometimes frustrating, experience. We are sure many were 
surprised by the myriad points Sharpton and Kelly agreed upon, 
such as the importance of body cameras and the need for better screening protocols in hiring police ofﬁ  cers. Kelly’s proposal that police ofﬁ  cers be required to have a four-year college degree was a particularly refreshing perspective, considering many law enforce-ment ofﬁ  cials have been reluctant to make any public criticisms of the profession. What’s more, both men were united in telling the audience an increased circulation of ﬁ  rearms and concealed carry permits is a decidedly bad idea.
Despite these breakthroughs, Kelly still couldn’t wrap his head 
around why #AllLivesMatter is a dismissive phrase, and Sharpton seemed incapable of NOT being a showman at any given time. But if these are our largest qualms for an event that had people #outraged, we feel comfortable in calling it an overall success.
Huh. It’s almost as if  when two people on opposite sides of the 
political spectrum sit down to have a respectful discussion, com-mon ground can be found and reason, rather than ranting, can prevail. It’s as novel a concept as we’ve ever seen, and it would 
be neat if we could see more of it here at UF.
Nonlethal weapons are a more eﬀ  ective option
About two weeks ago, America was hit 
with the horrifying story of Jeremy Mardis. Mardis was a 6-year-old boy who was shot to death by two police ofﬁ  cers while riding in the car with his 
father in Marksville, Louisiana. Mardis’ father, Chris Few, had no outstanding warrants for his arrest, nor was there a gun found in Few’s ve-hicle. This information begs the question: Why were shots ﬁ  red by police in the ﬁ  rst place?
The death of Jeremy Mardis has put his 
name on the growing list of unwarranted deaths by police ofﬁ  cers. According to a Washington Post article published in May, deaths from police shootings in 2015 are close to 
400.
Police ofﬁ  cers are supposed to be the ones who make 
people feel safe when they rest their heads to go to sleep, 
not the ones striking fear into millions of Americans and keeping them up at night. The trust in U.S. police depart-ments needs to be restored. It can be done by asking one simple question: Do police ofﬁ  cers need to carry guns?
Since the controversy in Ferguson, Missouri, local police 
departments and the U.S. government have been looking to 
change current policies that would turn the tide against the 
growing mistrust in U.S. law enforcement. The resounding answer, so far, has been to wear body cameras to track the actions of ofﬁ  cers at all times. The Atlantic reported on Nov. 1 that complaints against police dropped by 80 per-cent in cities with police departments using body cameras. 
President Barack Obama recently ordered the distribu-
tion of 50,000 body cameras to police departments across the country over the next three years. So far, many ofﬁ  cers 
involved in police shootings have been charged for murder, 
which would’ve been impossible without camera footage. In fact, there is footage of the murder of Jeremy Mardis from a body camera worn by one of the ofﬁ  cers that night.
Although body cameras signiﬁ  cantly increase the ac-
countability of police ofﬁ  cers, the U.S. government needs to go a step further. Not only do the body cameras do close to nothing to prevent these shooting from happening in the ﬁ  rst place, but having every cop in the U.S. wear a camera at all times is simply unfeasible. Just like you wouldn’t want to wear a camera that monitors your every move for more than 40 hours of the week, the majority of police of-
ﬁ  cers are going to resist having to wear cam-
eras. More importantly, body camera or no body camera, an innocent child was still shot to death last week by the very people who were supposed to keep him safe.
The technology for non-lethal weapons is al-
ready on the way. Alternative Ballistics, a company based in California, is developing an attachment that ﬁ  ts on the end of a handgun to lessen the impact of a bullet. Accord-
ing to the CEO of the company, the bullet is rendered al-
most completely nonlethal, but “it’s going to break some ribs.” The problem is it only works for one shot. However, the takeaway is that the technology developed by Alterna-tive Ballistics has proven that weapons can be produced to discharge a viable projectile to injure a suspect yet at a likely nonlethal force. If the technology is developed, this ﬁ  rearm could be a nonlethal alternative to today’s guns.
Having the same mentalities about guns as those alive 
200 years ago is esoteric and barbaric. With the replace-ment of today’s guns issued to police ofﬁ  cers with non-lethal ﬁ  rearms, trust and legitimacy could be restored in this country’s law enforcement. The bad guys may have deadly weapons, but they can still be stopped without a response of deadly force. The ofﬁ  cers at my little sister’s softball games and the ones pulling people over for speed-ing do not need deadly weapons by their sides.
Americans cannot feel safe if they do not trust those 
serving to protect them. If deadly police shootings were made impossible by ofﬁ  cers not having guns to begin with, U.S. law enforcement would continue to take steps in the right direction to gaining the larger American public’s sup-port.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineering freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, students under 
the banner of the Million Student March demon-strated on college cam-puses across the country. 
There was even a demonstration at UF, although only about a dozen marchers actually showed up. Regardless, the collective demands of the protestors were clear: tuition-free public college, $15 minimum wage and the cancellation of all student debt.
These three demands speak to the un-
deniable fact that times are tough for mil-lennials. Rising college costs are troubling. Young people my age are strapped with crushing college debt — debt that cannot be written off even in bankruptcy. And if the federal government believes it should set a minimum wage, the wage should be changed to match the economic conditions of the times. 
Yet this is not the case. Because Con-
gress does not update the wage regularly, the current minimum wage now is worth less than it was in the 1960s. All of these issues are important concerns indeed.
That being said, I ﬁ  nd myself disliking 
the Million Student March. While I applaud the marchers for attempting to improve ﬁ  -nancial conditions for young people, I ﬁ  nd 
their collective demands for solving these 
problems counterproductive and, quite honestly, not that well thought-out.    
Let’s dig deeper into why each demand 
isn’t viable: 
With regards to forgiveness of college 
loans, my basic quarrel with this demand can be summed up in one question: How will we pay for it? The overwhelming re-
sponse: Tax the rich. But here’s where 
things start to get hairy. OK, you want to tax the rich, but answer these questions: By how much will you raise the taxes of the rich? At what income level is someone considered to be rich? Do you know the rich already pay a lot in taxes?
And even if we soak the rich and im-
pose a 100-percent tax on incomes more 
than $1 million, that only gives us about 
$616 billion in revenue. Of course, at that point, the rich will relocate to another country — an oversight not really touched on by the marchers. But, point being, the current total amount of student loan debt is $1.2 tril-lion, and taxing the rich at 100 percent won’t accomplish any 
one of the movement’s three 
demands. Where will the rest of the money come from? Will it be from the average taxpayers like you and me? I have yet to hear a good answer to any of these 
questions.
Free education: I understand more pro-
gressive, humane and worldly European 
countries have cost-free tuition. But their 
education, and let’s use Denmark as an example, is not free. Taxes pay for free education. More speciﬁ  cally, a 56-percent income tax, a 25-percent sales tax and up to a 180-percent tax on cars pays for it. No American would support taxes this high. Still, keeping tuition low is important — and UF is doing a fairly good job with this 
compared to other schools. But realize our 
low tuition is paid for by taxes. As always, free things aren’t really free.     
Fifteen-dollar minimum wage: Once 
again, I am sympathetic to raising the fed-eral minimum wage. But $15 is too much. Many workers will be laid off due to such a dramatic rise. And liberals agree with me. Uber-liberal economist Paul Krugman, 
of all people, thinks a $15 minimum wage 
would be disastrous. When the likes of Paul Krugman think this is a bad idea, it’s probably not sensible.
Before you write angry letters to the ed-
itor, realize I sympathize with the march-ers — so much so that I’ve mentioned it numerous times in my column. I realize hard-working people are struggling be-
cause of these issues. Many of them are 
my friends. Yes, the larger concerns of the marchers are valid and on point: The economy is still leaving many people be-hind. But, raising the minimum wage to $15, forgiving student loans and making college free aren’t the ways to go. In or-der to solve these pressing issues — which must be solved — more thought needs to 
be given to the economic considerations 
and the realities of our time.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.Million Student March, rethinking 
taxation reform and student debtColumn
When I was deciding my career as a little girl, full of blind naiveté and enthusiasm for a world that seemed so 
clearly ready to catapult me to stardom, there were a lot of op-tions on the list. My aspirations ranged from ballerina to doctor to orange-truck driver over the years, but there was one job that kept coming up in the mix, no matter how many years passed: I wanted to be a writer.
I sat down to write wild stories about 
elves and fairy princesses when I was in elementary school. I discovered fan ﬁ  ction in middle school and was super into it, and in high school and college I’ve toyed around with short stories that might never make it out of my computer’s hard drive but are special to me all the same.
My 6-year-old self was quite sure that 
one day, I could rival J.K. Rowling.
All of this is ﬁ  ne and dandy, but as many 
people tell me, this casual writing thing is not the stuff that makes a career. It’s not the stuff that makes and supports a life or family. We can’t all be people who sit in fancy cabins during the winter months and write best-selling mysteries a la Colin Firth in “Love Actually”— it’s almost Thanks-
giving, so I’m allowed to include “Love 
Actually” references; it’s totally cool. Since coming to college and facing up to the fact that the world isn’t as ready to catapult me to stardom as I thought it was, I’ve focused on and developed other passions and de-cided on other paths I’m actually super psyched to explore. And that’s great.
But what if I’d indulged my inner child 
and decided to be a gung-ho, full-ﬂ  edged writer — a coffee-chugging, cigarette-smoking, starving-artist type with the eyeliner and ink-spotted nails to prove it. Where would this Sally be right now?  What is she doing? Does perhaps a tiny part of me wish I was there (maybe with-out the cigarettes)?
Last week, I started watching “Jane the 
Virgin.” It relentlessly sucked me into a maelstrom of Netﬂ  ix binging, procrastina-tion and feelings.
First of all, go watch the show; it’s won-
derfully gripping. Secondly, it reminded me of something.
There’s a lot of crazy stuff in “Jane the 
Virgin” — it’s basically a real-life telenove-la and the drama is laid on thick. Let’s be real, the plot starts out with someone being accidentally artiﬁ  cially inseminated. There’s also a drug kingpin. You get the 
idea. But I found myself think-
ing one of the least believable aspects of the show was that at one point, Jane quits her job to dedicate herself to her childhood dream: being a romance writer.
I remember thinking to myself, “No! 
Stop this nonsense! You have a baby on the way, Jane. You can’t be doing this kind 
of thing! Get it together girl; you are better 
off staying a waitress.”
Despite my misgivings, Jane has kept at 
writing so far with a dogged determination I can’t help but admire. I still have no idea if it will all work out; I’m waiting for sea-son two to come to Netﬂ  ix.
How many dreams have we each put 
down because they aren’t practical? How 
many things have we fallen behind on? A 
personal quest we’ve suddenly forgotten about. A promise to write in a journal that hasn’t been touched in months.
At some point when we were little, 
there was a moment when every one of us, with complete and utter conviction, thought something like, “This ﬁ  nger paint-ing is gonna look awesome in a museum 
one day,” or even “Yup, I’ll totally rock at 
being president.”
In some ways, being a kid was the ul-
timate conﬁ  dence booster. When you are a child, you believe in yourself the most. Like a superhero in a cartoon, you’re sort of invincible — nothing’s been able to take you down yet.
I’m not saying we should all throw cau-
tion to the wind and declare candidacy for the 2016 election tomorrow. And I’m not saying childhood goals are even necessar-ily the healthiest goals.
But, as Thanksgiving rolls around the 
corner and we ﬁ  nally take a moment to count our blessings, let’s remember to be grateful for the child in each of us and have an unﬂ  inching faith in who they are 
and what they want. Maybe they are still 
there, at least in spirit.
This kind of inspiration sounds like just 
the thing to fortify me for ﬁ  nals week.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.
Don't forget your childhood dreamsColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
By Lamia Chowdhury
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students showed their Gator 
pride by sledgehammering a gar-
net-and-gold car painted with the words “Beat FSU” on Tuesday af-ternoon.
The UF Pi chapter of Sigma 
Beta Rho Fraternity held the first multicultural Greek car-smashing event on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas. It charged about 150 students to swing sledgehammers at a sedan donated by LKQ Self Service, locat-ed at 8910 NW 13th St. 
Students paid $2 for one hit and 
$5 for three, and the group raised about $400 for SOS Children’s Vil-lages, a nonprofit that focuses on helping children who require fam-ily based child care.
The fraternity spent the last two 
months getting permits, insurance and approval for the event, said the fraternity’s president, Mausam 
Trivedi. 
To keep students safe as they 
climbed on the car and dented its 
doors, the fraternity was required to get approval through UF Student Activities and Involvement, said Trivedi, a UF tourism and hospital-ity management junior. The nation-al fraternity provided full insurance 
coverage for the event to cover any 
injury and liability concerns.
The car-smashing was roped 
off from bystanders, who hollered as their classmates smashed the car one at a time. The car’s glass was taped to prevent injuries, and participants were required to wear protective gloves and goggles.
“No one is hurt,” Trivedi, 21, 
said about an hour after the event started. He smiled. “Knock on wood.”
Tristan Ahlquist, a UF plant 
science junior, said although he thought the event could be danger-ous, “It’s safe enough.”
The 20-year-old paid $2, climbed 
onto the hood, swung a sledgeham-mer and hit the top of the car. He jumped off the hood smiling.
“I saw ‘Beat FSU’ and it got me 
riled up, so I had to see what it was about,” he said.
Meagan Bunnell, a UF math-
ematics sophomore, said it was fun to watch people hit the car, but she didn’t participate because she was scared to get hit by flying debris.
But she said she still liked the 
idea.
“I think every week is FSU hate 
week,” the 19-year-old said. 
Students smash FSU-themed car, raise money for nonprofit
ABOVE:
A car donated by LKQ Self Service, a Gainesville junkyard, waits to 
be smashed for charity on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. UF’s multicultural fraternity, Sigma Beta Rho, held the fundraiser and charged students $2 to $5 to hit the vehicle with a sledgeham-mer. The proceeds were given to SOS Children’s Villages.
Emma Green / Alligator
BELOW:
Mausam Trivedi, a 21-year-old UF tourism and hospitality manage-ment junior and president of the Pi chapter of Sigma Beta Rho Fra-ternity, takes a swing at an FSU-colored car during the SOS Smash fundraiser on Tuesday.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Emma Green / Alligator
Mitchell Wydetic’s safety goggles fly off as he pounds a junkyard car on Tuesday on the Plaza of the Americas. The 18-year-old biology freshman said it felt really good to hit the Seminole-col-ored sedan. “Those colors really make me want to take a hammer to something, ” he laughed.
CAMPUS
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Strickland said he believes in 
universal health care, and he plans to tell 
his peers why today on the Plaza of the 
Americas.
The UF biochemistry and molecular 
biology junior will attend Debater’s Cor-
ner, an event hosted by Gators for Hill-
ary. It will serve to create a nonpartisan 
platform for students to talk about what they think is important in the upcoming presidential election. It will be held from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., said Alfredo Ramirez, 
the event’s coordinator and a Gators for 
Hillary volunteer.
The 20-year-old UF political science 
junior said there will be a “debate zone” 
on the middle of the plaza, with a lectern 
set up for students to speak about their concerns. 
Campus political organizations, such 
as Gators for Rubio and Humanists on Campus, will set up tables around the de-bate zone.
“The idea of it is to use the free-speech 
zone to stimulate an intellectual and pro-ductive discussion,” Ramirez said.
He said attendees will discuss their 
stances on issues important to them, rang-
ing from the availability of Pell Grants to 
the prevalence of global warming.  
As for Strickland, the president of Hu-
manists on Campus, he said he hopes to challenge more conservative students to think seriously about political issues.
“If people aren’t discussing these is-
sues, they aren’t making informed deci-sions,” he said.Political debates on plaza      
HE ALSO HIT AN OFFICER.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Monday afternoon after police said he stole from Publix and hit an officer.
At about 1 p.m. Monday, James. R. Dur-
den, 59, walked into a Publix at the inter-section of Archer Road and Southwest 35th Boulevard, according to a police report.
Durden walked down aisle nine and 
put about $26 worth of goods into a black backpack and walked toward the exit, ac-cording to the report.
A loss prevention officer and the store 
manager tried to stop Durden, but instead he left toward Southwest Archer Road, ac-cording to the report.
An officer stopped Durden about one mile away near McDonald’s and Exxon Mobil. The officer asked him to stand in front of a police car and show his identi-
fication. Durden refused to do either, ac-
cording to the report.
Instead, he hit the of-
ficer’s chest and then walked east for 50 yards 
before the officer used a Taser on him, according to the report.  
Durden’s last offense 
was in 2008 when he was 
found guilty of larceny, according to Ala-chua County court records.
Police arrested Durden on charges of 
petit theft and battery on a law enforce-ment officer.  
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he was released Tues-day afternoon on his own recognizance.Police arrest man for 
shoplifting from Publix
Durden
“The idea of it is to use the free-speech 
zone to stimulate an intellectual and 
productive discussion.”
Alfredo Ramirez
Debater’s Corner event coordinatorWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
The Fat Tuscan Cafe sauteé chef Josh Williams, 33, demonstrates how to prepare an eggplant caprese 
salad during a gluten-free and vegan cooking lesson on Tuesday. “I believe in a high-vegetable diet, ” he said.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Williams slices Roma tomatoes to top off a vegan eggplant caprese salad during his gluten-free and vegan cooking lesson at The Fat Tuscan Cafe. “Our classes offer a way for people to come in and have a really positive cooking experience, ” he said.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Becky Richey, a 20-year-old UF international studies senior, and Abigail Hummel, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, bought bowls from the UF Arts in Health club’s Empty Bowls fundraiser in Ustler Hall on Tuesday. The club painted about 60 bowls to sell along with dinner and donated the proceeds to St. Francis House.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Mark Sexton, the communications and legislative affairs director for Alachua County, digs into a dish prepared at a gluten-free and vegan cooking class at The Fat Tuscan Cafe on Tuesday.
Alexie Dris / Alligator
The Member Leadership Program, the Hispanic Student Association and the Rural Women’s Health Project hold a food drive on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. They collected food to give to 20 migrant farmworker families for Thanksgiving.
Food For
THOUGHTWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    11-18-15-5-2
NW townhome to share. Large master suite, attached full bath and adjoining, sep. living/office. Maid service, cable, and ALL utilities included. Pool/tennis. $595/mo plus security. 352-281-3227.    11-24-15-5-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Subleases 1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $695
91 FORD RANGER $795
00 CHEVY IMPALA $895
98 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any read-er who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Attention Advertisers
Attention Advertisers
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will not publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.  
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will not publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.  
Please be aware of the following early deadlines
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 30
Tuesday, Dec. 1DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 23 4p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 24 4p.m.Please be aware of the following early deadlines
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 30
Tuesday, Dec. 1DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 23 4p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 24 4p.m.
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482Classified Advertising
373-3463
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482Classified Advertising
373-3463
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos
12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New 
Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    11-20-15-7-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
IT/Customer Service Rep for DentalSoftware Company. M-F 8-5Competitive Pay and Benefits.Computer skills is a must.Send Resumè: dave@floridaprobe.com11-20-15-5-14
Church seeking pianist/worship leader for Sunday morning traditional evangelical (hymn-based) service.Email interest tofirstnaz5020@cfcoxmail.com.    11-20-15-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFull Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-
ers, with good communication and com-
puter skills. We also have Store Managers 
Positions available for our Ocala Store. 
Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to 
work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University 
Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply 
In Person. Ocala managers positions pay 
$600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgCPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
FOR SALE
2 FL vs FSU FOOTBALL TIX
Sec 63, Row 62, Seats 10 & 11.
Call 352-871-7801    11-19-3-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
1. GEOGRAPHY: How many U.S. 
states border the Gulf of Mexico?
2. TELEVISION: Who lives at 124 
Conch Street, Bikini Bottom, Pacific 
Ocean?
3. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the first mate in “Moby-
Dick”?
4. MOVIES: What film was the first 
full-length “talkie”?
5. MATH: What is the decimal 
equivalent of the fraction one-eighth?
6. HISTORY: In what year did Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter pardon all Vietnam War draft dodgers?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What is the tra-
ditional liquor used in making a Tom Collins drink?
8. ANATOMY: What is the only 
muscle in the human body that’s attached at only one end?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the offspring of a cockroach called?
10. DISCOVERIES: Who was the 
first to show how anesthesia could be used to relieve surgical pain?
Answers
1. Five (Alabama, Florida, Louisi-
ana, Mississippi and Texas)
2. SpongeBob SquarePants
3. Starbuck
4. “The Jazz Singer” (1927)5. 0.1256. 19777. Gin8. The tongue9. Nymphs10. William Morton (1846)
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 16, 2015 King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Home of the
Nobel Peace
Center
5 Loafed
10 Wharf
14 Scandinavian
royal name
15 Black, in
Bordeaux
16 Johnson of
“Laugh-In”
17 Lose it20 Takes advantage
of a cloudless
night
21 Grating sounds22 “Oui, oui,” across
the Pyrenees
23 1-Across locale:
Abbr.
24 Lose it
30 Kentucky college
or its city
31 Cod cousin
32 __ gratia artis:
MGM motto
34 Spot in the
control tower
35 Lose it
37 Twosomes
38 Brillo competitor39 Alert40 Packers
quarterback
Rodgers
41 Lose it45 NASA affirmative46 Big name in
speakers
47 Prophetess50 Works like a
demon
55 Lose it
57 Lowly worker58 True-crime
author Dominick
59 Wine barrel
sources
60 Applies gently61 Hilarious types62 Bout enders,
briefly
DOWN
1 Sounds of
amazement
2 Blind part3 Basalt source4 Exceed, as one’s
authority5 One way to pay
6 Humdinger7 Poem piece
8 Coastal raptors
9 Opus __: “The
Da Vinci Code”
sect
10 Persian Gulf
native
11 “Exodus” novelist
12 Resting upon
13 Hankerings18 Stomach
discomfort
19 Orwellian worker23 Footwear
company named
for a goddess
24 Serf of ancient
Sparta
25 __ whiskey
26 Music from
monks
27 “The Pit and the
Pendulum”monogram
28 World’s smallest
island nation
29 Clean and brush,
as a horse
30 Air gun pellets33 Form 1040EZ
info35 Rubberneck
36 60 minuti37 Lacks the
courage to
39 Virginia of the
BloomsburyGroup
40 On the briny42 Synthetic fabrics
43 Not answering
roll call
44 Satisfies the
munchies47 Calif. law force
48 Lower intestinal
parts
49 “We’re not
serving liquor,”
briefly
50 Spitting sound
51 “That isn’t good!”52 Minn. neighbor53 Northern Nevada
city
54 Meeting of Cong.56 New Deal pres.
By Gary J. Whitehead
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/18/1511/18/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 18, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com21 Entertainment 16 Health Services 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Gregg Troy and the UF 
men's and women's swimming and diving teams will compete at the Buckeye Invitational this weekend. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators rise to No. 8 in CFP Rankings
The Florida football team is ranked No. 8 in the latest College Football 
Playoff rankings, the College Football Playoff committee announced on Tuesday. Clemson, Alabama, Ohio State and Notre Dame are ranked No. 1-4, in that order. Florida plays Florida Atlantic on Saturday at noon. Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF defensive end Jordan Sherit and linebacker Antonio Morrison tackle a South Carolina player during Florida's 24-14 win over 
the Gamecocks on Saturday at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Antonio Morrison came to UF in 2012 with 
a group of players to look up to.
Dominique Easley. Sharrif Floyd. Jon Bos-
tic. The list keeps going.
In total, ﬁ  ve players from that 2012 defense 
were selected in either the ﬁ  rst or second round 
of the NFL Draft over the past three years.
Ten players from that defense are on an 
NFL roster.
But while the talent-level was high on 
defense that year — the team’s 11-2 record that season was viewed as Will Muschamp’s lone success story during his four years in Gainesville — Morrison said this year’s group 
is better.
“Guys just love each other a lot more on 
this defense,” Morrison said. “Not saying that 
defense wasn’t great because they’re hand in hand, but it’s just, I mean, it’s hard to com-pare. Two great defenses.”
Through 10 games, the Gators defense has 
once again been its rock and has shown simi-larities to the 2012 squad. Here is a breakdown 
of how the two groups compare.
Yards allowed:
On paper, the 2015 and 2012 teams are al-
most identical. This year’s Florida defense — 
led by Morrison and linebacker Jarrad Davis, a dynamic defensive line, and a star-studded secondary — ranks ﬁ  fth in total defense (280 
yards/game) and 10th in both rushing (105.1/
game) and passing defense (174.9/game).
The 2012 team ﬁ  nished ﬁ  fth in total de-
fense, surrendering on average 286.7 yards per UF's dominant defense reminiscent of elite 2012 unit  
IT'S COHEN DOWN
What strikes 
you ﬁ  rst is their con-fidence:  their faces 
calm and smiling, even after an off-season of so much upheaval and uncer-tainty. 
A legendary coach gone, a 
38-year-old former Ole Miss point 
guard brought in to replace him, a projected sixth-place ﬁ  nish in 
a top-heavy, mostly mediocre 
Southeastern Conference.
But Florida’s conﬁ  dence isn’t 
lacking.
You saw it on Monday night, 
when the Gators thrashed North Carolina A&T by 50, piling up their largest point total since Nov. 25, 2011.
“2011?” Dorian 
Finney-Smith said, 
laughing. “Yeah, it’s 
been a while.”
In his regular sea-
son home debut, you saw the quintessen-tial Mike White: pac-
ing the sideline, squatting, shout-ing, pointing, jumping, shaking. 
Shaking his head after a Kasey 
Hill isolation jump shot led to a brick, jumping high after a John Egbunu block at the rim, turning to confer with his assistant coach-es after a defensive breakdown, after a failed offensive set, after a UF's men's basketball will 
ﬁ  nish higher than projected By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer 
@KBrut13
Upon visiting Gainesville as a 
high school sophomore, Sarah Troc-
coli knew Florida’s soccer program was a perfect ﬁ  t.
On that day in February 2013, a 
young Troccoli looked at her dad, Dan Troccoli, and told him, “I want that.”
Evidently, assistant coach Alan 
Kirkup was of the same opinion, seeing the forward as an ideal ﬁ  t in coach Becky Burleigh’s system.
“We always look for people who 
inﬂ  uence the game somehow,” Kirk-up said of Florida’s scouting strat-egy.
Recruited by Kirkup, who ini-
tially went to the 2012 Disney Show-case to look at another player on her club team — coincidentally named the Michigan Gators — Troccoli quickly caught his eye. 
The Troy, Michigan, native was 
initially drawn to the Gators’ signa-ture style of play: a possession-based system emphasizing constant ball movement in the middle of the ﬁ  eld.
That’s the type of soccer the 
freshman has always embraced. 
“I think I ﬁ  t well in this system,” 
Troccoli said.
Troccoli has excellent vision — a 
knack for seeing the game before it happens. 
“She reads the game really well,” 
junior forward Savannah Jordan said.
And now, the freshman is be-
coming a budding star for one of the top collegiate soccer teams in the country.
      
Early in her college career, Troc-
coli has already found success.
She leads all freshmen on the No. 
5 Gators with 10 points this season, coming on four goals and a pair of assists.
Troccoli has made an immediate 
impact from her ﬁ  rst start, scoring to put the Gators up 2-0 en route to a 3-2 upset win against then-No. 1 Florida State.
To put it simply: Troccoli has 
found success at every level of the game. 
She has always wanted to play 
soccer, wanting to get better with each opportunity. 
“As soon as she had a ball at her 
feet, she fell in love with (soccer),” her mother, Anne Troccoli, said. 
She wanted to follow the path of Florida freshman showing promiseSEE DEFENSE,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE TROCCOLI,  PAGE 16
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbShe enrolled early at UFBy Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@LStaff27
This point in the season for UF’s swim-
ming and diving teams would be consid-
ered halftime if it were a football game, 
according to coach Gregg Troy. 
Although the Gators have proven to be 
contenders in the first half of the season, 
they have to keep up that same momentum 
in the second half if they want to reach 
their goals of competing for champion-ships.
With nearly all of their Fall competition 
in the books, and two weeks off since the 
South Carolina meet on Nov. 6, the coach-
es and athletes have had the time to reflect on their performances and work on the things they can improve. 
“From a coaching perspective we get a 
chance to evaluate in a championship for-mat where we are and what we have done in the Fall,” Troy said. 
“From an athletic standpoint though, it 
is even more important because not only do we get a chance to evaluate it, but then we have six weeks before our next compe-tition to work on it and see if we can make 
some improvements. As an evaluation tool it is tremendous.”
However, the Gators are not the only 
ones concerning themselves with how they are performing as a team. They are also keeping an eye on the suc-
cess their potential competition.
“In the next two weeks there will be a 
variety of invitationals across the country. They will get a chance to see what the op-position will look like, too,” Troy said. 
“So you can evaluate splits and race tac-
tics. The entire second semester becomes a little bit more articulate for what you’re looking for.”
This weekend, UF will be competing in 
an invitational of its own — the Buckeye Invitational — which starts Friday and is hosted by Ohio State in Columbus, Ohio. 
During the three-day meet, the Gators 
No. 6 ranked men’s team, led by sopho-more Caeleb Dressel, and the No. 19 wom-en’s team will be facing competition from the Southeastern Conference in No. 17 Kentucky. 
On the men’s side, the team will battle 
with the Buckeyes, who have the No. 22 men’s team and No. 25 women’s team. 
UF will also see teams from the Univer-
sity of Ohio and Washington University. 
This invitational will give the under-
classman a chance to experience a champi-onship swimming format and demonstrate how much they have grown this season.
“This is similar to what some of their 
high school seasons are like,” Troy said. 
“They can’t hide at all. In this situation 
it is no longer ‘well I have been working 
hard and doing something different,’ it’s 
no longer new, it’s not different. So they are going to have to evaluate who they are and what they want to do.”14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel jumps into the pool at the start of the 200-yard 
breaststroke event during Day 3 of the 2014 Pinch-A-Penny Invitational. 
MEN’S BASKETBALLAs Fall draws to close, Gators swimming teams eye Spring
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF forward DeVon Walker shoots during Florida’s 104-54 win over North Carolina A&T on Monday in the O’Connell Center.  
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
DeVon Walker is grateful to be 
back on the court.
The redshirt junior is having a 
strong start to the 2015-16 season 
and is out to prove that suffering a torn ACL and sitting out all of last 
year was just a minor setback in 
his Florida career.
“When everything went down, 
you couldn’t see tomorrow,” Walker said this preseason of his 
injury. 
“But it feels great. I’m blessed 
to have this opportunity.”
Walker, a Winter Haven native 
who has split time at guard and 
forward, saw his Gators career get off to a slow start, averaging just 0.8 points and 0.7 rebounds in his 2012-13 freshman season. 
As a sophomore, he made his 
first career start and played in 35 games, but still averaged just 2.4 points. 
Then, in the preseason of his 
junior year, he tore his ACL.
But now he’s back and is look-
ing to be better than ever. 
Walker has started at forward 
in Florida’s first two games this season and is shooting 58.3 per-cent from the field, including 15 points in Monday night’s win over 
North Carolina A&T, tied for the 
team-high.
Walker said the circumstances of coming back from his injury 
and now playing for a new coach-
ing staff have given him a re-newed energy this season.
“We’re all adjusting, me and 
the new guys and the coaches, as well,” Walker said. 
“I think we all identify with 
that one characteristic. I would say that’s pretty much the ground 
we stand on as far as being simi-
lar.”
Walker’s teammates are also 
glad to see him back on the court and contributing on both ends of 
the floor in practice and games. 
Redshirt senior forward Dorian 
Finney-Smith, who is in his fourth 
year of playing alongside Walker, 
expressed his excitement to have 
his teammate back and healthy after Florida’s win Monday night.
“It’s very satisfying,” Finney-
Smith said. 
“He had a good practice to be 
honest the day before, I think he made six threes in a row. He can shoot, and I’m just happy he’s 
shooting with confidence and not 
worrying about anything. He’s playing free. I hope he can keep that mindset.”Coach Mike White knows what 
it takes to come back from an ACL injury. 
He said he’s been around his 
fair share as a coach, and while he 
wasn’t yet around the program to 
see Walker work toward recovery, he is impressed with how well Walker has bounced back.
“I know how hard those guys 
have to come back. How much work, how much time it takes to come back from an ACL,” White said. 
“It’s impressive that (Walker) 
plays with that reckless aban-don defensively, and he’s not out there playing with caution. He’s fearless, and he’s one of our bet-
ter defenders.”
Walker has shown no signs of 
weakness in his knee and has run 
the floor very effectively so far 
this season in what is an up-tem-
po, fast-paced scheme that White has installed.
The fourth-year junior is ready 
to make up for last year’s lost sea-
son.
“I feel really, really well. One 
hundred percent, no limitations,” 
Walker said this preseason. 
“Everything is full go. The 
journey has been probably what you’d imagine it being: hard, had its ups and downs. But fortunate-ly and luckily with the grace of 
God, with my team and my train-
ing staff, everything’s been great for me.”Redshirt junior thriving after injury
“I know how hard those guys 
have to come back. How much 
work, how much time it takes 
to come back from an ACL.”
Mike White
UF men’s basketball coachUF will swim Friday in the Buckeye Invitation al By Madison Belfour
Alligator writer
@madisonbel4
 
The women’s tennis team end-
ed its Fall season with a doubles 
championship at the Dick Vitale Clay Court Classic in Lakewood 
Ranch. 
Senior Brianna Morgan and 
sophomore Anna Danilina took 
home the title after defeating Vladica Babic and Carla Tur Mari of Oklahoma State, 8-2.
Danilina struggled at first with  
Morgan when it came to doubles, but over the course of the Fall 
season the two have found a bal-
ance within their playing styles.
When asked about whether 
the doubles pairing will be seen in the Spring season, coach Roland Thornqvist said “Absolutely.”
Although she is a versatile 
player, Morgan did not see much doubles play in the previous sea-
son. Thornqvist admits that may 
have been a mistake.
“She has certainly gone out of 
her way to show everyone that she wants to be in the doubles lineup, and it looks like she has proven to us that she does be-long.”
The Gators have four doubles 
teams, all of which have shown improvement throughout the sea-son, and Thornqvist said he has confidence in all four teams.
“I would be confident in all 
four no matter who we put out there. All four teams will play,” Thornqvist said.
Although the Gators showed 
improvement in doubles, Thorn-qvist said he still wants to see more from the girls in singles play.
The entire Fall season saw 
only three singles title wins for the Gators. 
All three wins came during the 
season-opener at the Duke Bonk Invitational. Morgan, Belinda Woolcock and Kourtney Keegan all took home titles.
With a two month break ahead 
of them the Gators need to contin-ue their motivation and momen-tum for the upcoming season. 
Thornqvist said that he 
doesn’t necessarily need to moti-vate his team; the crushing defeat against Vanderbilt last season at the NCAA Team Quarterfinals is enough of a motivating factor.
The lineup for the Spring sea-
son will be determined by who puts in the effort during the break.
“We’ve done a great job up 
until Thanksgiving here but it’s about what these players do when they get home," Thornqvist said. 
The Gators begin Spring play 
Jan. 21 at the UNLV Invite in Las Vegas, Nevada.questionable foul.
You saw his quintessential 
team: running in transition, full-court pressing from the tip-off, quick passing, spaced shooting and points.
Lots of points. 
104 points.
“Hopefully that’s something we 
can maintain,” redshirt junior for-ward DeVon Walker said.
Highly unlikely, but even so, 
their confidence is undeniable. 
Even if it is unjustified. Even 
if it was manufactured against a North Carolina A&T team that has 
qualified for just one NCAA Tour-
nament in the last two decades.
Regardless, it was important 
for the Gators to experience the benefits of their system, to catch a glimpse of their highest of up-sides. It was important to feed their psyche, to feed their confidence.
“And our swagger,” junior 
Schuyler Rimmer said.
The Gators will be better than 
their sixth-place SEC projection. They’re too talented, too athletic and they have too many shooters.
Last year, Florida relied on 
Finney-Smith and guard Michael Frazier II for their three-pointers, the only two starters who shot 
above 30.5 percent behind the arc. 
And of their reserves who re-
ceived significant playing time, 
only Chris Chiozza shot above 25.6 percent.
In their win on Monday, eight 
different players made a three.  
UF also shot 53.6 percent from 
the field, scored 40 points in the paint, and shot 51.7 percent on three pointers.
Even though Florida’s statistics 
were inflated against a team that went 9-22 a year ago, it was the 
ideal performance for Mike White’s 
home opener.
“If (our bigs) can get it going 
on the same night that we’re hit-ting threes on the level that we hit them,” White said, “it would be the perfect-world picture.”
And the players do think they 
can get it going — every night.
“We know what we’re capable 
of and I think this should be the criteria that we hold ourselves to,” Rimmer said.
It’s obviously unrealistic to set 
Monday’s performance as the bar for this team, but wholly believable to say that they can finish near the top of the SEC — behind power-house Kentucky but alongside a 
Ben Simmons-led LSU and Vander-
bilt — and, after missing out last year, to earn their way back into the NCAA Tournament.
We won’t know how good Flor-
ida will be until the post-season, but UF will have opportunities to show it — against No. 13 Michigan State in December, against No. 23 LSU in January and twice against No. 2 Kentucky.
They will likely lose more of 
those games than they will win.
Still, there is talent here, hope 
here, confidence here.
Confidence to finish higher than 
their projections, to once again end their season in the post-season, to experience success with a new, young coach after the departure of a legend.
 “Coach challenged us,” Finney-
Smith said, “and we accepted the challenge.”WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith goes up for a lay-up during Florida's 104-54 
win over North Carolina A&T on Monday in the O'Connell Center. 
COLUMN,  from pg13
Alligator File Photo
Brianna Morgan hits a two-handed backhand during Florida's 4-0 win against Elon on Jan. 24 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
TENNIS
UF ends Fall season 
with doubles title
game, but that group’s run defense reigned supreme.
The Gators of three years ago finished fourth in rush-
ing defense, giving up a mere 94.54 yards per game. The 
passing defense was slightly more lax, with UF giving up 192.2 yards through the air, the 16th-best mark in the 
country.
Scoring:
Both teams gave up 14.5 points per game and each 
had its shining moments.
The 2012 defense posted a pair of shutouts against 
Kentucky and Jacksonville State and gave up no more 
than 20 points in conference play.
This year’s defense has already held four opponents 
— all in the Southeastern Conference — to less than 10 points this year.
Turnovers:
In 10 games, the 2015 Florida defense has already 
forced 21 turnovers (2.1/game), a mark that’s tied for 13th nationally but trails that of the 2012 team (30 total turnovers, 2.4/game).
And both teams relied on multiple playmakers to take 
the ball away.Through 10 games, the 2015 team already has six 
players with multiple turnovers, with Vernon Hargreaves leading the pack with four interceptions.
The 2012 team had eight defenders with multiple 
turnovers, highlighted by Matt Elam’s four interceptions.
Defensive line play:
Florida’s defensive line has been virtually unstoppa-
ble this season. The Gators already have 31 sacks and 76 tackles for loss in 10 games this year, with Alex McCali-ster and Jonathan Bullard leading the way with a com-bined 11 sacks and 23 tackles for loss.
The 2012 team, even with big-name defensive line-
men like Floyd and Easley swarming opposing offenses, managed just 30 sacks and 88 tackles behind the line of scrimmage in its 13-game season. 
Misc.:
The 2015 defense is holding opponents to a 33.7-per-
cent conversion rate on third and fourth down. The 2012 team did slightly better, only allowing opponents to con-vert 32.5 percent.
So far this season, the Gators have only allowed op-
ponents to score touchdowns on 45.5 percent of their red zone drives. When the 2012 defense was backed up inside its 20, opponents scored touchdowns 46.2 percent of the time.DEFENSE,  from pg13UF is No. 5 nationally in total defenseher two older sisters.
Her oldest sibling, Victoria, 23, 
was the starting goalkeeper at Stet-
son University during her junior and senior seasons, and now plays at the University of Nottingham in England.
The middle Troccoli sister, Ame-
lia, 21, played club soccer at Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Michigan. 
Sometimes, Troccoli would be a 
“guest player” on Amelia’s teams if they needed an extra body. 
Despite the even bigger age dif-
ference, she’d also participate in Vic-toria’s practices.
Known as “Little Sarah” in her 
scrimmages with the older girls, Troccoli’s game was anything but small. More often than not, her com-bination of power, strength and skill bested her senior competition.
The experience she gained from 
kicking the ball around with older players paid dividends for her when 
she ﬁ  rst arrived on campus.
“It helped a lot with not being 
intimidated when I did play with 
older people,” Troccoli said. “(In 
college) you’re playing against 21- 
and 22-year-olds, and I’m 18 ... but 
it didn’t really make a difference.”
      
Troccoli’s time on Michigan’s 
amateur circuit had run its course.
In high school, Troccoli domi-
nated her competition and playing 
at the next level seemed inevitable.
Having won a state champion-
ship, there was nothing left to do for 
her to cement her legacy.
During her junior year of high 
school, Troccoli made a decision: She wanted to enroll early at UF. 
“I was ready to kinda get going,” 
Troccoli said.
Sure, she would have to skip her 
senior year of soccer, but moving to Gainesville a semester early to train 
with the team offered her the best chance to become a better player be-fore her ﬁ  rst collegiate season.
She knew that a chance to get a 
head start in one of the South’s most successful soccer programs was on the line, and that was motivation enough for her to thrive.
To get her GED early, Troccoli 
had to take two classes in the Sum-mer before her senior year and one class during her ﬁ  rst senior semes-ter. 
Troccoli succeeded with relative 
ease. She was ready for the next phase of her career. 
“She was gonna make it work,” 
her father said, “because that’s what 
she wanted to do.”
      
In high school, Troccoli was cho-
sen to be a head peer mediator — in 
essence, studying to be a psycholo-
gist — at Troy High. 
She was a good listener and peo-
ple weren’t afraid to open up to her. 
Those same characteristics 
proved useful upon the arrival of the rest of the freshman class. 
Since her enrollment, Troccoli 
has spent nearly all of her time in Gainesville training to become the 
best player she can be.
She joined the team for its six-
game Spring schedule, a stretch that 
included her ﬁ  rst collegiate match 
against the Bayern Munich women’s 
team — a game the young Troccoli 
said she was “terriﬁ  ed” for. 
But with the arrivals of the new 
semester and the remaining fresh-men, Troccoli found herself taking 
on a new role. 
“She sort of bridged the gap be-
tween the freshmen and the older 
players,” Burleigh said.
The time she’d spent with the 
older players served as a beneﬁ  t for 
both Troccoli and the other fresh-
men.
To Troccoli’s advantage, she was 
able to get to know and understand  Jordan, Christen Westphal and the 
other veteran players.
And to the advantage of the re-
maining freshmen, Troccoli was able 
to facilitate the team-building pro-cess. 
“She showed us, by example, 
that the upperclassmen were really nice and really friendly, so that we wouldn’t have to be afraid,” fresh-man goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese said. 
While she had the convenience 
of getting to know her teammates before the rest of her class, Troccoli was careful not to step on anybody’s toes.
“(She) wanted to make sure she 
doesn’t rub people the wrong way,” 
Dan Troccoli said. 
Troccoli herself considered the 
situation to be “tricky,” and that there was a “balance” that needed 
to be kept.
“I didn’t want people to see me 
as ‘oh, she’s already here,'” she said.
But that hasn’t been the case.
Instead, Troccoli has emerged as 
a leader in her own right. 
Bolstered by team-building ef-
forts, a team retreat and a full season 
of experience, Troccoli’s maturity 
has positively impacted the other 
freshmen — getting them ready to 
step into more prominent leadership 
roles.
Marckese has become Burleigh’s 
answer at goalkeeper, having start-ed each of the Gators’ postseason 
games thus far. 
Mayra Pelayo, Briana Solis and 
Samantha Chung have ﬁ  lled voids in the midﬁ  eld left by graduated se-
niors.
But, factoring in stats and intan-
gibles, Troccoli has surfaced as the 
most impressive freshman of all.
However, although she is just 
one of ﬁ  ve Gators — and the only 
underclassman — with double-digit 
points, that number doesn’t cut it. 
“In her mind,” her father said, 
“500 goals is one goal too short.”16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sarah Troccoli dribbles the ball during Florida's 3-2 win over 
Florida State on Aug. 30 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
TROCCOLI,  from pg13She skipped her senior season in high school to train at Florida